[{"Title":"True and important film!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"59 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a very powerful film from the wonderful Phillip Noyce (The Quiet American) and its based on the shameful history in Australia where aborigine children were taken by force from their families and tribes to camps and taught to be servants. In the film 3 sisters escape and venture to walk 1,500 miles back to their tribe. The title refers to a fenceline that stretches for thousands of miles and the girls follow it. The wonderful aborigine actor David Gulpilil (Walkabout) plays a scout that is tracking the girls and Kenneth Branaugh plays an officer that is in charge of the whole operation. I guess the main flaw in the film would be the middle where most of the walking takes place and the film really slows down but its not a major complaint. The 1,500 mile trek is expertly paced and the film is by no means dull. Rather, its fascinating! The real footage that we see at the end of the film is so powerful that the whole essence of what you have just watched becomes even more devastating. This is more than just an important film, its a documentation of an ugly and shameful part of Australian history. A must see! "},{"Title":"A Scathing Attack on Racism","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"50 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  And miles to go before I sleep/ And miles to go before I sleep -- Robert FrostSet in Western Australia in 1931, Rabbit-Proof Fence, a new film by Australian director Philip Noyce (The Quiet American, Clear and Present Danger), is a scathing attack on the Australian government's eugenics policy toward Aboriginal half-castes. Continuing policies begun by the British, the white government in Australia for six decades forcibly removed all half-caste Aborigines from their families for their own good and sent them to government camps where they were raised as servants, converted to Christianity, and eventually assimilated into white society.Based on the 1996 book, Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington Garimara (Molly Kelly's daughter), the film tells the story of three Aboriginal girls, 14-year old Molly Kelley, her 8-year old sister Daisy, and their 10-year old cousin Gracie. It shows their escape from confinement in a government camp for half-castes and their return home across the vast and lonely Australian Outback. It is a simple story of indomitable courage, told with honest emotion. Abducted by police in 1931 from their families at Jigalong, an Aboriginal settlement on the edge of the Little Sandy Desert in northwest Australia, the three girls are sent to the Moore River Native Settlement near Perth. Here the children must endure wretched conditions. Herded into mass dormitories, they are not allowed to speak their native language, are subject to strict discipline, and, if they break the rules, are put into solitary confinement for 14 days. Followed by the Aborigine tracker, Moodoo (a great performance from David Gulpilil), the girls make their escape. Using a rabbit-proof fence as a navigation tool, they walk 1500 miles across the parched Outback to return to Jigalong. The rabbit-proof fence was a strip of barbed-wire netting that cut across half of the continent and was designed to protect farmer's crops by keeping the rabbits away. The girls walked for months on end often without food or drink, not always sure of the direction they are going, using all their ingenuity and intelligence along the way just to survive. The stunning Australian landscape is magnificently photographed by Christopher Doyle, and a haunting score by Peter Gabriel translates natural sounds of birds, animals, wind and rain into music that adds a mystical feeling to the journey. The performances by amateur actors Evelyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury, and Laura Monaghan (who had never seen a film before let alone acted in one) are authentic and heartbreakingly affecting. Though the white officials and police are characterized as smug and unfeeling, they are more like bureaucrats carrying out official policies than true villains. Kenneth Branagh gives a strong but restrained performance as Mr. Neville, the minister in charge of half-castes. Rabbit-Proof Fence is an honest film that avoids sentimentality and lets the courage and natural wisdom of the girls shine through. This is one of the best films I've seen this year and has struck a responsive chord in Australia and all over the world.  Hopefully, it will become a vehicle for reconciliation, so that the shame of the Stolen Generation can at last be held to account. "},{"Title":"What a pleasure it was to see Philip Noyce use his visual storytelling skills on a humane story.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This powerful film follows the journey of three young aboriginal girls who are taken from their family and forced to assimilate into an empty culture by the white settlers of Australia. This is known as the STOLEN GENERATION, a dark period in Australian history which the current prime minister of Australia refuses to say sorry for the past atrocities. But this is not to say that this film preaches or manipulates emotions for political gain. No! It just tells the story with powerful images that allows the viewer to enter the torment of the stolen generation. Dialogue is minimal as our heroes are taken from their family and driven to the other side of Australia. But their will and instinct to be with their strong culture has the girls escape the camp prison and follow the rabbit-proof fence back home. The rabbit proof fence was built down the centre of Australia to contain the plague of rabbits from entering farm land. It was this white-man built fence that lead the girls back home.As for all journeys, they are filled with internal conflict and confrontations with strangers. These confrontations with certain people show the diverse group of settlers in Australia. Not all were ignorant but most were repressed and abided to the harsh cultured laws. For instance, the girls arrive at a farmstead and are given clothing and food by a white woman. The motherly instinct of this woman understood that the girls had to be with their mothers. But at the same token the farm woman could not jeopardise her own family by looking after the girls or else it would have brought trouble. It was wonderful scenes like these that was played out visually without having to dumb it down with words. As human beings we understand these actions and need no explaining.The most interesting relationship was the one between the aboriginal tracker in search of the girls. He could sense the persistence of these girls to get home by making it difficult for him to track them down. This he respected and slightly dropped his guard. Once again, a string of images tell of this distant relationship between tracker and girls.The images also became so strong during the scene when the girls were taken from their mothers in a horrific manner. I doubt there will be a dry eye during that scene. This hooks you in as you then become the spirit of their journey back home.Only by the performances of the girls do these scenes work because they are so natural and heartfelt. Children who overplay their role just become cute but those who underplay and rely on emotions of  the situation deliver a powerhouse performance that a trained actor may sometimes find difficult to achieve. At first the name of a high calibre actor - such as Kenneth Branagh - in an Australian film warns you where the limelight will shine. But Kenneth just took a step back and become another important confrontational figure in the journey.A bonus is the music  by Peter Gabriel. It is a mixture of his famous trademark of world music infused with that of the Aboriginal. It soars and plays with the emotions, maybe a little too much but when you are dealing with a thousand year old culture that has music as its central universe, then you may be able to understand that the overpowerful music is just an extension of that.Congratulations to all who were brave enough to bring a project of this strength to the screen. And for those who may wonder how I saw the film prior to its release, lets just say I was lucky enough to be at the right place at the right time. And No! I'm not tied to the project in any way because I don't sell out that easily.  "},{"Title":"So much with so little.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"50 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Few films have garnered so much applause (from critics and public alike) with so little. The plot of Rabbit Proof Fence can be found elsewhere on this website. Suffice it to say it's about three girls walking and walking and walking and walking and....across some of the most visually austere country on the planet; the Aussie outback. There's little story behind the film, zilch for Hollywood tinsel, and a minimal cast of relative unknowns (except for Branagh's small role). It would be easy to make the case that this film is one long boring flick. However, it would also be easy to make the case it is a beautifully filmed story of courage, determination, and the triumph of the human spirit. I would argue the latter. (B+) "},{"Title":"Excellent Realist Adventure Film","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"42 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story and set in Australia in the 1930s, Rabbit-Proof Fence is about three half-caste aboriginal girls, Molly Craig (Everlyn Sampi), Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) and Gracie (Laura Monaghan), who are taken from their mother and shipped 1500 miles across the country to the Moore River Native Settlement where they are to become more integrated into white Australian culture. Molly, the eldest and most experienced of the three, initiates an attempt to return home, on foot.There is some controversy over just how factual the film and its bases are (including the book by the real-life Molly Craig's daughter, Doris Pilkington), and there were some interesting parallels to the situation depicted in the film and behind the scenes facts about star Sampi and director Phillip Noyce. I won't get into that here, because it's irrelevant to the question of whether Rabbit-Proof Fence is a good film. It is. It's an excellent, inspirational film that should leave nary a dry eye whenever it's shown.On the other hand, there is a politics present in the film that is not ignorable. The aborigines in the film are abused and pushed around by a culture that misguidedly wants to protect them from themselves. A segment of historical white Australia is portrayed as the bad guy. Noyce doesn't paint a picture completely without ethical nuance, however. The chief villain of the film, A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh), keeps talking about his good intentions, and such claims do not come across as insincere. This all sets the backdrop and motivation for the heart of the film, which is a story of just what conviction, persistence and a bit of resourcefulness can do.Rabbit-Proof Fence is mostly a combination of an adventure and a suspense film. Set primarily in the breathtaking Australian wilderness, magnificent cinematography goes without saying. The suspense is realistic and comparatively subtle.As for the cast, Sampi is simply enchanting, and Branagh is as good here as I've seen him in any other film of his, even though his role is a relatively minor one. The tracker, Moodoo (David Gulpilil), managed to be very effectively complex, all while uttering barely a word. The music, by Peter Gabriel, is also worth noting. It is very unobtrusive, but elegantly emphasizes mood throughout the film.I also had extra personal interest in the film as an avid hiker who has done a number of long-distance hikes and who plans to do more in the future. "},{"Title":"Statement movie about a bad chapter in Australian history","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Official policy between 1910 and 1970 in Australia allowed half-caste Aborigine children to be forcibly removed from their families and incarcerated &#145;for their own' good in training schools where their were educated to become fitting servants for white families. This institutionalised eugenics, still recent enough to be remembered by its victims, is still a controversial issue in Australia where the PM John Howard refuses to give an official apology. The film has been doing very well in Australia. The story follows three such girls who are forcibly re-located but escape, and follow the &#145;rabbit-proof fence' on a 1500 mile journey back home. The title itself seems to echo not only the yellow brick road of the Wizard of Oz (another journey to reclaim one's wholeness) but the fence that was erected to contain animals &#150; which is just how the Aborigine children are treated, albeit with the best intentions. The story was adapted from a book by the daughter of the youngest surviving half-cast Aborigine portrayed in the film &#150; the actual child actors had mostly never seen a motion picture before let alone acted in one. "},{"Title":"Top marks to the director","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film has quite a few remarkable features.  First of all is its title which is rather unusual and immediately grabs one's interest.  Next there is the fence itself which runs for thousands of miles to protect what few green plants there are in these desert regions from the voracious appetites of millions of wild rabbits.  This fence plays an important role in this true story.  Then there is the diector who not only scoured the continent to find three suitable aboriginal girls to play theleads but moulded these inexperienced beginners into the believable characters of Molly, Daisy and Gracie.  The director Phillip Noyce has achieved remarkable success in creating three good little performers and should be given full credit for his difficult task.For those who do not know the desert regions of Australia, it must be said that the outback country is harsh and cruel and can only be crossed by those with experience...those with a knowledge of the land.  I think the camera makes it clear that the hostile environment is very much like a fence in itself...almost impossible to cross.   All the more remarkable therefore that these girls accomplished what they set out to do.  May be it was a reckless decision they made but thanks to the fence they found their way back to family and friends.The film is largely a record of the long trek  and the manner in which the children are able to survive.  There are not many dramatic moments on their journey south.  The children are mainly concerned with avoiding the blacktracker who is following them.  The most unforgettable scene comes early in the film when the children are forcibly torn from their mothers.  This is truly heart-wrenching stuff.This thoughtful presentation is worth watching.  It is part of Australian history. "},{"Title":"Superb and Devastating","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Yes we've seen children-on-the-run films, but such glib commentary demeans this true life drama and its implications in real life.  This magnificent and tragic story is yet another must-see in rethe little holocausts that have gone on, even in the most civilized nations - in this case Australia. What a touching story of three girls, marvelously portrayed by unknown young actresses, who escape from a horrific government policy, initiated by white supremacist Australia pre-Hitler and Nazi Germany.  It is odd to say this is beautifully filmed in the Australian outback... and Kenneth Brannagh, echoing his recent portrayal as Heydrich in Conspiracy, plays white evil incarnate - a prim bureaucrat diligently doing his government job's mandate - to cleanse Australia of half breeds in a most heinous (if not deadly) fashion.  It is compelling from beginning to end, and the epilogue is most chilling and bittersweet.  Superior and meaningful film making. "},{"Title":"Powerful story, beautifully shot and pretty well acted &#150; more than deserves 90 minutes of your time","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  1931 Australia.  The state has passed a law that facilitates the collection of mixed race children to boarding camps where they are trained in their white side of their blood and to be home help as adults.  The eventual aim is to prevent the growth of the aborigines as a race by watering down any mixed blood.  A small group of children, Molly, Gracie and Daisy are taken from their mother and transferred across the country to one such camp.  However Molly leads the trio in an escape from the camp and follow the rabbit proof fence that divides the country to return to her home.I managed to fluke free preview tickets for this because the tickets I had come to collect were all gone!  I must admit this film hadn't really appealed to me when I saw summaries and the poster, but I'm very glad that I did.  The plot is based on fact and is a period of history that I admit I knew nothing about.  I was surprised that this cruel and immoral practice carried on till as late as the seventies.  The fact that the current Prime Minister of Australia refuses to apologise for it to this day shows that it is important that this story be told.The film is told in a steady, unsentimental tone that allows the film to be powerful without the typically Hollywood use of sweeping music or other such lazy tools.  Instead the circumstances of the story create the emotion.  The story is a little weak at some points &#150; once the children escape the film has a touch too many scenes of near-capture and escape to sustain the drama.  Also the film (understandably) lends a lot of respect to the Aborigines &#150; giving them a sense of mysticism that they maybe don't deserve.  This is a slight problem when a key action involves a hawk that is supposedly summoned by their mothers (or something!).  However these are minor complaints given the sweeping emotion of the film and the sheer power of the story.The production and direction are excellent.  Noyce has created a beautiful vision of the Australian Outback that really feeds the film.  However the sound is also superb.  Rhythmic footsteps ring out, crunching and banging of the landscape &#150; it works best in a cinema I guess but it adds to the dramatic feel of the film, even if some sudden noises caused me to jump without any reason in the scene to do so.The cast are mixed but are important where it matters.  Sampi is amazing as Molly.  She carries the film with her strength but also little facial expressions that reveal that she is a child, reveal her strength and tell so very much.  Both Sansbury and Monaghan also do well but not as well as the lead.  Branagh is also perfectly pitched.  Neville could easily have been overplayed as a hammy villain of the piece but here he is played just right &#150; he is a real man and we are left to decide for ourselves what to make of him.  Some of the cast are average &#150; some of the children in the camp can't act and the majority of the white police officers are maybe a shade too much caricatured as evil men who dislike the blacks.Overall this film may struggle to draw the Friday night crowd just looking for a bit of escapism of a weekend, but it is still well worth a look.  It is beautifully shot and uses the Australian landscape to great effect complimenting the enormity and emotion of the terrible, terrible true story.  Not exactly cheerful or uplifting but a powerful story that deserves 90 minutes of your time. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In Australia no less, I was shocked . In the first ten minutes of the movie I was in tears, as I watched I toiled along with the girls and fed them and cried with them felt fear for them and with them , smiled at some things too . Took me off guard and broke my heart, where as in America we took the Native Americans and did the almost the same thing . I'm left shaking my head and wondering when does it end or will it ever ,Great movie very thought provoking will tell all my Aussie friends to be sure and see it if they haven't already why does a government have to  protect them from them selves , they've survived this long with out intervention . I read more on the rabbit extinction methods made me sick to my stomach will never forget this movie . I belived it happened just as she tells it so much for the politics of the movie thanks Cassie USA "}{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  We saw Rabbit Proof Fence this evening and I must say that for me this is absolutely one of the best movies this year so far. The moods in the film are fantastic, not in the least because of the music by Peter Gabriel. I was also very impressed with the acting of the girls. Once again we have been taught a lesson about the way we treat the native people of this world... "},{"Title":"The New World of the Civilised White Man","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1931, with the Aborigine Act in Australia, the Chief Protector of Aborigines in the State of Western Australia A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) had the power to relocate half-caste children from their families to educational centers to give the culture of the white man. When the fourteen year-old aboriginal girl Molly Craig (Everlyn Sampi) is taken from her mother in Jigalong with her eight year-old sister Daisy Kadibill (Tianna Sansbury) and their ten year-old cousin Gracie Fields (Laura Monaghan) to the distant Moore River Native Center, they run away trying to return to the tribe in the desert. They are chased by the skilled tracker Moodoo (David Gulpilil) and the police under the command of Neville, and have to survive to their long journey back home.Rabbit-Proof Fence discloses a shameful part of the Australia contemporary history when the white man tried to force a process of eugenism, following the true saga of three escapees from one native center to reach their families in the desert. The story has top-notch performances of the three girls in the lead roles, supported by magnificent direction, cast and screenplay and wonderful music score of Peter Gabriel. I have never read anything about this attempt of constructing a new world of the civilised white man that led the Aborigine people to the destruction of their identity, family life and culture during the so-called stolen generations. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Geração Roubada (Stolen Generation) "},{"Title":"Wonderful and engrossing","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It shocked me to see a user comment that this was a dull movie! I took my teen daughters to see it in the theater and we liked it so much we rented it again when it came out on DVD. What an interesting story and how amazing that it's based on a true story! Kenneth Brannaugh was amazing as the conflicted but evil official bent on capturing these poor girls. I cried my eyes out (SPOILER) when the girls were taken from their mothers...what a heartbreaking scene! The little girl actresses were also amazing and convincing! This is the rare movie that the family can enjoy together, and also discuss afterwards! I loved the fact that the real Molly and friends were shown at the end of the movie. This was a fascinating story that deserved to be told. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The three lead girls are very good in the film (great work from the children's acting coach Rachael Maza!) and there is strong backup from others like Ningali Lawford.  Some scenes are very emotional and will certainly move many members of the audience.  It's disgusting to know the mixed-race Aboriginal children continued to be removed from their families until only about 30 years ago.I suppose there is potential for this film to be quite important given the debate in recent over the Stolen Generation (with some, including the Prime Minister, questioning whether it could be called a generation and whether they were stolen or just removed).  The film doesn't demonise the white people who take the kids away, not even the Chief Protector of Aborigines, A.O. Neville, played by Kenneth Branagh; he is shown as someone who honestly believes he is protecting the Aboriginal from himself.  It's interesting they decided to portray him this way.The scenes where Mr Neville gives a slide show on how the half-caste can be simply bred out are very disturbing - I just thought, how can someone say these things?  And the women just watch on attentively.It seems miraculous that Molly and Daisy are still alive.  The courage they showed to get home was really something extraordinary.The film is very good, but there seemed to be something missing.  Can't put my finger on it though, so it musn't have been that important.  "},{"Title":"Phil Noyce gives us film poetry, not propaganda","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" MILD SPOILER AHEAD This is the 200th film I have reviewed for IMDb and one of the most satisfying. Phil Noyce has produced here a piece of cinematic poetry when it could have easily been tendentious agit-prop. The story from the 1930s of three half-cast aboriginal girls walking 2000 km of Western Australia to escape the clutches of white assimilationists is seen through their frame of reference. We see the harsh beauty of the countryside as they do, not an alien landscape but as their back yard. They have all been brought up in the desert and together know how to survive, a point eventually realised by their pursuers, who then lie in wait at their destination.The three young girls, Mollie, Grace and Daisy, are stunningly portrayed by Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sainsbury and Laura Monaghan. Molly, at 14 the oldest, has the largest part but the three of them function together as if they really were sisters. Their mother and grandmother , played by Ningali Lawson and Myana Lawson (daughter and mother in real life) are equally convincing, as is David Gulpilil as the relentless black tracker.The most difficult role in the film is that of A O Neville (Mr Devil, as the aborigines called him), Chief Protector of Aborigines, a sincere and energetic advocate of the monstrous policy which resulted in a generation or more of half-cast children being removed from their families. It would be easy to pillory Neville as a monster, but Kenneth Branagh manages to give us a rounded picture of a man who was not inhumane, who tried to advance what he saw as the welfare of his charges despite lack of money and enormous logistical problems (not to mention an unco-operative police force). Had it not been for these obstacles the aboriginality of Australia would probably have been reduced to a few scattered reserves in the deserts run as freak shows for tourists.Some critics of the armchair lefty variety have criticised the movie as not being political enough, and its true there's plenty of room for righteous (or leftist) indignation on the topic of the stolen generation, but I think a more overt political message would have diminished it. Imagine say, if John Pilger had made this film. Instead we have a near-classic. Never I have I seen the visual power of the Australian landscape better depicted, and seldom have I seen a better celebration of the human spirit. And this is a true story. The real Molly and Daisy take their bows at the end. Things didn't quite work out for them the way they might have, but they survived and stayed with their people. "},{"Title":"A Boring and Misleading Waste of Time","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" After looking at these comments I must say that I am quite disappointed to see such a lack of diversity in the opinions of viewers. The majority of the comments describe the movie as brilliant, moving and a real 'tear jerker' however when I watched the movie the only tears I would have been likely to cry would have been tears of boredom. I really disliked this movie, partly because it was not created as well as it could have been . The way in which the story is presented is quite disappointing. It is a story that had the potential to be interesting, thought provoking and cause a real sense of empathy for the girls, but I feel that this was not done adequately. Despite this there were some bearable scenes, however these were far outnumbered by the boring, uninteresting feel of the entire movie. This made a story that could have been a compelling and interesting journey for viewers a boring and painful form of torture.The other reason that I dislike this movie is its failure to address the other point of view, for want of a better word the white persons point of view. It makes out the white Australians of the time were racist and only trying to harm the aboriginals when this was not the case. While, in retrospect we can clearly see that what they did was wrong, the people at the time could not. They had good intentions and were only doing what they believed was right. What this movie, and unfortunately the majority of people who see it, fail to recognise is that in a lot of cases removing these aboriginal children from their homes was actually beneficial in many cases. Many of the children were living in absolute squalor and were rescued from that and offered the chance at a decent life. To those people who deem this to be wrong I ask them to take a look at Australia's current welfare and foster care system. Is this really any different?As a senior school student in Australia, we are currently studying this movie and the 'Stolen Generations' in English. And I am afraid that this is not giving the right message to international viewers. It does not give them the full story, something that is definitely needed to understand the complicated and controversial issue of the Stolen Generations. It paints a racist, almost evil Australian society that was never in existence. It also unfairly prejudices them to believe that white Australians are evil and Aboriginies are innocent victims as well as subjecting them to a boring story and ninety minutes of torture. "},{"Title":"And in spite of himself, the native must be helped.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fifteen hundred miles in nine weeks, that's about twenty four miles per day. The movie doesn't even come close to portraying the harshness of the terrain and weather conditions the girls would have encountered. The pain and hunger these girls must have endured goes beyond belief and is a testament to the courage one can summon to attain a goal held firmly in belief. I was not aware of the history of the Aborigines Control Act or of the suffering imposed on a race deemed inferior by the colonials. In some small measure, this film helps both educate and inspire, and is one of those pictures that's not easy to let go. I encourage anyone to view Rabbit Proof Fence to witness just how far the human spirit can go to attain freedom and dignity. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story about the transcendence of the human spirit","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen several movies recently (Adaptation, The Hours, Bowling for Columbine, City of God, etc.), and Rabbit-Proof Fence is the best of the bunch. It's a simple story, but a very moving one. In particular, the performances by the young leads, the beautiful cinematography, and the wise, uncluttered script made this a strong cinematic experience for me. Kenneth Branagh was convincing as the racial purity zealot who manages the whole forced removal scheme. I also really enjoyed the subtle changes we see in the mysterious character of The Tracker (played with wonderfully restrained power by David Gulpilil), as his dogged pursuit of the girls eventually gives way to a dawning admiration. And to cap it all off, the closing real-life footage and text postscript leaves the audience feeling simultaneously devastated and triumphant. Wow. "},{"Title":"A touching story told with tunnel vision","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A strangely inert tale. It's a fascinating story of the three girls trying to get home after being abducted for politically misguided purposes. However, director Philip Noyce probably thinks that the film's injustices are sufficiently obvious to speak for themselves as long as the tale is told.That's true half the time. The hand-held camera catches the horrific wrench of the initial abduction and a subsequent encounter. But there are a number of incidents which could have been so much more pointed (without being crass). In fact the acting from the three children is really very good and I watched with an increasing sense that they were being let down the initial escape sequence drifts past without visually responding to the sense of apprehension shown by the children.The mix continues in this way. The film is very beautifully shot, but there are one or two very lazy moments - there's clumsy coloured period film insert to introduce Neville in his 1931 office. The acting can also be patchy. Branagh, needless to say, finds a fittingly morally vacuous corner from which Neville can come out of not only is he trying to implement a eugenics programme that (as his slide show demonstrates) has as much scientific basis as alchemy, further he's not actually interested beyond trying to fulfil the requirements of his administrative role, getting just as angry at costs as at the loss of the girls or the natives supposed ungratefulness.Ultimately, the story is rendered quite faithfully if without being engaging. Perhaps there's a clue to this strange unawareness with the credits shoved cheaply up onto the screen in Comic Sans. Someone's priorities lay elsewhere in the manner of this film's making. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Rabbit proof fence","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" RABBIT-PROOF FENCERabbit-proof fence (2002) is an adventure/drama film set to the 1930's in Australia. It is starring Everlyn Sampi, Laura Monaghan and Tianna Sansbury as Molly, Gracie and Daisy. The movie is based on a book named Follow the rabbit-proof fence, which is based on a true story.The story is about a half-caste aboriginal girl happily living with her mother in in a small place called Jigalong. Along with her half-sister Daisy and her cousin Gracie, they are taken from their homes and put in Moore River Native Settlement. Here, they are supposed to get raised as white children. Molly takes the first chance she gets and runs away together with her sister and her cousin, planning to walk the 1500 miles home to Jigalong. The movie is mainly about the trip that lasts over many weeks, while they're struggling with the heat, the hunger and the pain from their feet. On their way, they meet many different people.The emotional soundtrack by Peter Gabriel was truly amazing. His way to translate natural sounds like wind and rain into music is very effective. He succeeds in blending the aboriginal instruments together with the modern ones. The final outcome of the musical use is that the emotions in each scene discreetly gets elevated without disturbing the storyline.I think it was a very good film. The plot was good, the music caught the viewer. The way the three girls acted was truly amazing. The fact that the film is based on a true story makes me even more interested in the film. I really enjoyed the clip at the very ending where we could see the real Molly and Daisy as old people. I would recommend this movie to people that are about 13 years or older, because a younger audience will perhaps not understand the content of the movie, neither the grave emotions involved. To enjoy this movie fully, one should also have some knowledge about the story of the aboriginals. "}{"Title":"Rabbit Proof Fence","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film is about three aboriginal girls. That is from a true story. Some persons belong to the stolen generation and they are half-caste persons. Their home is named Jigalong and the kids in the film were taken by force from their family and it is about 1,500 miles away from Jigalong to Moon River where they are going to be taught to be servants. The main character is named Molly, Daisy and Gracie and they manage to escape the camp together and the girls walk all the way from Moon River to Jigalong. They only follow the rabbit proof fence. When the girls are walking home to Jigalong they are all over the news and everybody is looking for them to bring them back to Moon River. The minister in charge of the half-caste people is named Mr. Neville. Mr. Neville was doing everything to bring the girls back to the camp again. The girls walked about 9 weeks and the girls have to go through the rough landscape of the Australia's desert. They haven't any food or water and that is very horrible to see those girls walk along this. I like this film because it is from a true story and I really liked to follow the movie about what were happened here. It was very interesting to see what the girl did to hide themselves. I liked to see the end of the film when we saw the girls in real, right now.They are now 80 years old and they are still alive. "},{"Title":"A touching story about a small family.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" !!!THIS MOVIE MIGHT INCLUDE SPOILERS!!!We're in Western Australia, 1931, and in his office, A. O. Neville (Mr. Devil), the government's official in dealing with aborigines and half castes. His job is to remove the half caste-children from their families and place them at the Moore River Native Settlement camp. Molly, Grace and Daisy are moved to the settlement camp and ever since arriving they hate it. Molly plans to escape the camp as soon as the possibility is there. When it arrives they run. They run as fast as they can and figures that the rabbit proof fence that crosses the land is the way to go. They follow the fence miles and miles, and they better clean their tracks because the camps skilled tracker, Moodoo, is right behind them.I would give this movie a 7/10. It is a good movie but it is a movie for school purpose only, although some history-interested people might buy it. It is not a movie I would recommend for a nice evening at home. "},{"Title":"Educational.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit proof fence is a powerful movie by Philip Noyce. It is set in Australia during the 1930s. Three Aboriginal girls, Gracie, Daisy and Molly, are forcibly taken away from their family home in Jigalong, Western Australia and taken 1,200 miles away to Moore River to be trained as domestic servants, part of official Australian Government policy. The film is basically about their struggle for freedom, and how three little girls walk the long way home. This is a story that moves the heart. The strength of the girls and the cruelty of the Australian government are truly overwhelming. The heartless comments and actions of the government are baffling. I think it is good to make people aware of these horrible incidents. Moreover, I think this film is quite well made, strictly technical. I like the way the film contains lots of strong pictures and strong colors. The real footage that we see at the end of the film is so powerful that the whole essence of what you have just watched becomes even more devastating.I think this movie can be educational and good for any teenagers. It is a part of Australian history that should not be hidden, rather enlightened and discussed. Strictly personal, I didn't find this movie exiting or very entertaining, but more educational. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film is based on a true story, and was made in 2002. It takes place in Australia, and is about the children who were taken away from their families, which is called the lost generation. Phillip Noyce was directing the movie and Everlyn Sampi was playing the lead as Molly Craig.The Movie is about Molly Craig, her little sister and her cousin. They are half cast children and live with their families. One day, a car arrives where they live, by the rabbit proof fence. The children try to escape, but the man takes them into his car and abduct them to Moore River 1500 miles away. There they meet other half cast children who also has been taken away from their families. One morning Molly and the two other girls, decides to escape from Moore River, while everyone is in church. They run into the woods and starts their long trip back home. The evening this day, the people at Moore River discovers that they are gone. Soon they have a professional aboriginal tracker, and a police patrol hunting for them.I think the film was good. It was well made, and it tells an important story. The film is mostly about the tree girls walking across the country to get back to their tribe. But the film tells an important story of a shameful part of Australian history. So it's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" CharactersMolly She is the oldest girl of three and Daisy's sister. She is 14- years old.Gracie She is Molly and Daisy's cousin. She is the middle one. She is 10-years old.Daisy She is the youngest one. She is 8-years old.The film is a 2002 Australian drama film. It is directed by Philip Noyce. Rabbit-Proof Fence is based on the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence written by Doris Pilkington Garimara. It is based on a true story. The film follows the Aboriginal girls as they walk for nine weeks along 1500 miles (2400 km) of the Australian rabbit-proof fence to return to their community at Jigalong, while being pursued by a white authority figure and an Aboriginal tracker. The soundtrack to the film is called Long Walk Home Music from the Rabbit-Proof Fence, is made by a man named Peter Gabriel.This is in Western Australia during the 1930s. The film begins in the remote town of Jigalong where 14-year old Molly, and 8-year old Daisy, lives with their mother, grandmother and their 10-year old cousin Gracie. Thousands of miles away, the protector of the Aborigines, A.O. Neville, signs an order to take the girls to his re-education camp. Neville calls people like these girls half-castes, they have one white and one aboriginal parent. Neville says that the aboriginal peoples of Australia are a danger to themselves, and that the half-castes must be bred out of existence. The girls are taken from Jigalong to the camp at Moore River. Half-castes that are of a certain age live at the camps and are taught to become servants for the whites living in Australia. The three girls, Molly, Gracie and Daisy decide to escape from the camp and walk home to Jigalong. The Aboriginal tracker, Moodoo, is called in to find the girls and bring them back to the camp. They evade Moodoo several times, receiving aid from strangers in the harsh Australian country they travel. After a long walk they find the rabbit-proof fence and knows that they can follow it north to Jigalong. Neville figures out their strategy and sends Moodoo and a local constable, Riggs, after them.I think this was a great film with facts about differences between people and what people do to other people. Here the white people want to eradicate the aborigines, and help the half-castes. I will recommend this film, because it is very interesting. But I will not recommend it for a cozy evening. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof Fence This movie is about Molly, Daisy and Gracie. Molly is the oldest one, and is the leader of the group. Daisy's personality is mostly focused, and she will never give up. Daisy is a young girl, in about eight years. She is just following her sister Molly, and she is not completely sure of what she is doing. Gracie is their cousin, but she is not sure of what she is doing, and does not know what to do, but she changes her mind, a lot of times during the film. All the three girls are half aboriginals, but they live with their mothers in an aboriginal area. They learn to hunt, and live in the wild, with all their friends and families. But one day, it all changes for the three girls.I liked the movie because I could almost see myself in Molly, but not in all, which makes the movie interesting, yet familiar. I also think it is interesting because of the history behind the movie, and I also like their technological age, which both the aborigines and British are living in. "},{"Title":"A story of courage and determination.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie Rabbit Proof Fence is a story concerning the Stolen Generation in Australia. Very many half caste kids (one of the parents was white, and the other one, usually the mother, was aborigine) were taken by the white population in Australia by force and sent to schools or institutions that were going to train them into being white. A man called Mr. Neville, the Chief Protector of Aborigines in Western Australia, had the responsibility to decide over the aboriginal population, and from what they knew about the aborigines and the whites, it was with good intentions that they took the children away. They were supposed to mix the aborigines with the white population and eventually the aborigines would die out.This movie is a true story about how three girls, Molly, Gracie and Daisy, who were half caste children, were taken away from their mothers and put in an institution very far from where they lived. They soon made an attempt to run away, and they used a fence that stretched through the country to navigate. The fence was called a rabbit proof fence because it was there to prevent that the rabbits would ruin the agriculture on the other side. During this journey the girls always had to hide and cover their tracks. An aborigine who worked for the whites, Moodoo or the Tracker, was following them. The oldest of the girls was Molly; she was only 14 years old.Molly, Daisy and Gracie changes throughout the movie, they are dynamic characters. What they experience makes them more grown-up. The girls' families are flat characters.The story about the three girls is true, it happened in the 1930's, and at the end of the movie, we get to hear about the real story and how it ended. Since the story is true, the creator of the film had some guiding lines to follow. The setting is put to the 1930's and the setting is very natural, most of the movie takes place in the Australian outback/desert.The most important thing about the movie is when the girls are taken away, and their journey home. The relationship between the aboriginals and the white population is something we can learn more about in this movie.I liked the movie because it is a true story about three young girls who had courage and a determination that everybody could look up to. The movie doesn't have a proper climax, and if you are a person who like when something happens in movies, this movie might not be the best choice. But I would recommend it anyway because of the historical aspect. "},{"Title":"Okey movie, useful in school","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is finding place in the Western Australia back in the 1930s. The sisters Molly, Grace and their cousin Gracie are living by the rabbit proof fence which is the longest of its kind in the world. One day the so-called protector of the Australian Aboriginals A. O. Neville sends out an message to the local policeman to take the girls and relocate them to Nevills school of how to behave. Neville call the girls half-cast as of one black and one white parent. He means this is a threat to the Australian aboriginals and wants to get rid of the half-cast folk.And the movie is basically about the escape of the three girls, which ends up being a very, very long walk. The tension and the mood in the movie is well reflected in the music. It is a very spiritual-type of music, as well as powerful and stressing music. This is a factor which makes the movie a bit better. Also the movie is very realistic, which tells you that this is something that can, and have happened. The characters are more or less the same throughout the movie, but I think they are played fairly well. And the characters are also being played on a convincing way, though the movie in itself became more or less boring as the minutes passed by considering my taste. The beginning was interesting, but towards the middle of the movie it became more difficult to pay attention. But at the end the movie became more interesting again. I wouldn't have recommended this movie as a week-end, hour-spending activity, but it was very useful in the school situation where I saw it. "},{"Title":"An historic and important film!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In this movie we get to see the true story about three aboriginal girls. They are all «half-caste» and belongs to the stolen generation. The kids were taken by force from their family and brought 1,500 miles away from their home, Jigalong, to Moon River where they were going to be taught to be servants. The girls, Molly, Daisy and Gracie managed to escape the camp and together the girls walked all the way back to Jigalong. Following only the rabbit proof fence. The girls are all over the news and everybody is looking for them to bring them back to Moon river. Mr. Neville is the man behind it all. He is the minister in charge of the half-caste people. He would do anything to bring them back to the camp again. The walk takes over 9 weeks and the girls have to go trough the rough landscape of the Australias desert. It is truly fascinating and also horrible to see the girls walk so long and with no food, or water. I really liked this movie. That is because it is a true story. Although it is a really dreadful history it is a great way to learn about what really happened in Australia so many years ago. It is a powerful story and an important movie. At the end in the movie we get to see two of the aboriginal girls that walked all the way back to Jiglalong. They are now over 80 years old and still alive. To see them on the footage was really fascinating. "},{"Title":"Rabbit-proof fence","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-proof fence is a movie about, the half-cast children Molly (14), Daisy (10) and Gracie (8) from Western Australia who is being taken from their Aboriginal mothers and sent a thousand of miles away from them, by the government policy. In 1931 the girls escape, and the pursuer Neville who takes order from the government policy is fast getting after them. The girls now have started a long road home, and can't change their minds. If they do, they know what will happen to them. On their way home, the girls walk by the fence that keeps rabbits from the settlements, where their father works, and they live. Will they survive? The film which is a drama is sad but really exciting. It is used a lot of dark colors, and music to set the right mood up to what happens. I also did get the message about the film really clear, and it made me think a bit over how it really is some places in the world. I recommend the film from the age 14 and up. It was exciting and educational. Since it is a true story, based on the book that is written by one of the girl's daughter, you also get the feeling that you are being dragged in to the story, and it is you who has to survive. It is an important theme, and a good way to learn about it with watching this movie. Watch the movie to see how everything ends! It really is worth it. "}{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is a movie starring Everlyn Sampi, Kenneth Branagh and David Gulpilil. The movie is based on a real story set in early 30's Australia. In this period of time the immigrating Europeans were bringing their culture upon the Aborigines by force.The story begins with some background information about the current situation in Australia, the Commissioner of Native Affairs in Australia signs a warrant for the capture of 3 half-caste children. The sisters Molly Craig and Daisy Kadibil together with their cousin Gracie Fields are forcibly removed from their grandmother and mother being relocated to a camp hundreds of miles away. After a few days in this camp, the girls decide to run away from the camp and start walking the many miles back home to their family. Molly is the oldest of the three girls and quickly decides that the most effective way of getting home is following the Rabbit-Proof Fence north. The man sent to track them quickly realizes how they are thinking and follows them, trying to track them down. The movie changes drastically when the sisters cousin is captured and brought back to the camp where they started, meaning that the sisters will have to continue on their own.The thing about the movie that really caught my attention was the way they used music. The majority of the movie contained Aboriginal background music, giving the movie a special feel. In addition to this music being in the background, they also included actual Aboriginals singing and chanting in their native language.The actors in this movie were okay, quite fit to their roles and especially one of them impressed me. The actor who did the role of the Commissioner of Native Affairs really impressed me, being able to stay emotionless and not understand a thing about what he was doing. Not being able to see how he was actually destroying and hurting the Aborigines.To sum up, I think this is a really good movie. The fact that it's based on a true story gives the directors little room for their own interpretation of the script and story, meaning you can't really put your finger on it. The feeling you get when seeing how horribly the Aborigines were treated, only 80 years ago is not something anyone should be proud of. This is not a feel-good movie. Some of the scenes are quite strong, meaning that if you have a problem with watching discrimination I would not recommend this movie. I would recommend this movie for anyone over the age of 14, because I do not believe younger children understands the meaning of this film. "},{"Title":"A good movie with a strong story!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Film ReviewRabbit-Proof Fence is an Australian drama film from 2002. The plot is based on a true story about three Aboriginal girls who is taken away from their mother and put in a settlement run by white men to breed out the mixed-race Aboriginals. It follows the three girls as they escape the settlement and starts on the long journey home, and are hunted by the white men who are doing everything they can to bring the three girls back to the settlement. The plot is taking place in the year 1931. The film is directed by Phillip Noyce and is based on the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington Garimara who is the daughter of the main character Molly Craig. This film does a good job of entertaining the viewer! The director has done a good job finding locations to film and placing the right music in the right place. You will see a lot of nice shots of the Australian Outback and the music really helps to build up under what is currently happening on the screen. What is a little special about this film is that it manages to keep it interesting to watch without the Hollywood use of special effects, weird camera angels or other things that would be typical for a Hollywood-film. This film is made to tell a story and so it does. And this is a good thing, because the story is strong in most ways. Though I did not get the emotions I would might expect out of a movie like this. I don't want to spoil too much for you, but I can say this Some tragic happenings occur in the movie, and the film didn't make me feel enough for the characters to really care. I think this is much due to the acting of the main characters. Especially when it came to the character Molly, I didn't feel like she is acting like a normal 14-year old would. She is constantly dead serious and does not get emotional enough. When walking a path of 1500 miles to get home, it would sometimes seem like a normal walk in the village. Other than this, the acting is mostly good and so is the movie. I give it a score of 7 out of 10 because it is a good movie with an interesting plot and story behind it. It is a bit linear and because of this and the sometimes poor acting I do not give it a higher score. "},{"Title":"True story about three mixed-race  Aboriginal little girls who escape in Australia","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Riveting story based on actual events taken from a book by Doris Pilkingston , daughter of the starring girls . In 1931 ,after being plucked from their homes , three aboriginal girls getaway their forced incarceration at an institution designed to train such children as domestic staff to be introduced in white society . The protagonist Molly along with his smaller sister and cousin flee , all of them realize a long way return home . The Australian government oversaw the racist policies that enforced mestizos until the 70s . If you were kidnapped by the government, would you walk the 1500 miles back home? . Molly (Sampi) , Daisi(Sansbury) and Gracie (Monaghan) follow the line of rabbit-proof fence , the longest unbroken piece of ever made and built by the government to keep out the rabbits that had overrun the farmlands . Hunted by the authorities (Kenneth Branagh) and pursued by an astute tracker , the girls confront dangers in a heartbreaking adventure . Aboriginal children were forcibly removed from their families throughout Australia until 1970. Today many of these Aboriginal people continue to suffer from this destruction of identity , family , life and culture . We call them the Stole Generations .Interesting tale about some girls snatched from their parents by the Australian government to be trained as domestic employees , they set off on a trek across the Outback and embarking on an incredible 1500 mile journey to return home . This is a fascinating adventure , a breathtaking struggle to survive . Neophyte main cast is appealingly natural , the three girls are sympathetic and enjoyable. Mailman is a likable white woman who helps the girls along the trail . Kenneth Branagh plays brilliantly a bigot who relentlessly pursues the little group .Top-notch , colorful cinematography by Christopher Doyle who reflects splendidly Australian Outback . Rare musical score by the singer Peter Gabriel is composed by synthesizer and plenty of native sounds . The motion picture is stunningly directed by Phillip Noyce , an Australian director who emigrated Hollywood where achieved successes such as ¨Patriot games , Clear and present danger , The Saint¨. He is an expert on action and suspense as proved in ¨ Dead calm , Bone collector , Catch a fire , Salt¨. He returned his country and filmed this sensible drama of escape and survival well titled ¨Rabbit-proof fence or The Stolen Generation¨ . Rating  very good , better than average , well worth watching . "},{"Title":"414th Review Stunning account of one of the greatest abuses of human rights","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's nigh on impossible to watch RPF and not be strongly effected by it - it is one of those films that shouts courage - it both the fact that someone was willing to make it, and in the story itself. This true account of three aboriginal half-caste girls going home after being removed from their mother is wrenching and simply one of the great films of Australian cinema.Told simply the camera work in particular augments the film throughout, its use of long-shot and sweep is exemplary. The casting of the girls is spot on and Kenneth Branagh gives his role a superb pomposity without braggadocio which drives home how bureaucratic the abuse of human rights can be.Above all, this is an extraordinary tale that moves the heart. I have seen it four times now and every time I cry. That Australia could do this up until the 1970s seems almost incomprehensible but that this film could then be made is a start to acknowledge and heal that wrong.An excellent moving movie. "},{"Title":"i want to love this movie","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Honestly the kids cannot act. I know they are not professionals and that they are just kids from the outback, but I am sorry they cannot act. Also it is a very slow movie. I know it is about 3 girls walking across a desert so it cannot be too exciting, but it was just so slow. I love the story and the fact that it was an actual real life story just blows my mind, but I do not think this is something that can be filmed and be given any type of justice. The struggle that the girls go through never really comes through and one never really gets the scope of the distance. If anything there needed to be more wide shots that gave a flavor of Australia was like. I can imagine David Lean or Leon giving this movie the extra flavor it needs. The best part of the movie was the footage at the end with the real Molly Craig. There was never any type of emotional connection with the characters. The only good part about the movie was that they showed that the white people actually thought they were doing good and that their intentions were good. But in the end there is no excuse for doing what they did. Not a great movie and barely passable as good, but it had it's heart in the the right place. Unfortunately it falls short of what it is trying to achieve. "},{"Title":"a testament to courage, an indictment of empire","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Director Noyce takes a true story from the shocking episode of Australia's stolen generation and fashions a masterpiece. Half-caste Molly, Daisy and Gracie are hauled away from their mother and kin by the white authorities to train for a life of servitude to the colonials. Defiant and proud, Molly leads her siblings 1500 miles through the desert back to home, aided by the rabbit-proof fence that splits the country.The eponymous fence, symbolic of the division between natives and whites, is countered with the symbol of a soaring bird, that reminds the girls that they are free. The journey across the country through harsh terrain is episodic, graceful, and fraught with danger. The longer the girls stay on the run, the greater their notoriety becomes, and the more inclined the people they encounter are to help them on their way.Everlyn Sampi is brooding and charismatic as leader Molly, ably complemented by the confused Tianna Sansbury and delicate Laura Monaghan as her two charges. Kenneth Branagh as the face of White Australia never lets the didactic tone spill over, remaining oafishly but menacingly sincere.Noyce tells this devastating tale in simple but moving fashion. The English-language trailer pitches the film as a journey of survival and endurance, which it is. The Japanese trailer simply asks; Are there tribal differences in the feelings of children torn from their mothers? , pitching the tale as one of searching and belonging, which it is. Noyce fuses all these elements into a superbly moving, deeply satisfying film. A film that deserves a wide audience, and demands repeat viewing. "},{"Title":"Offensive and - even to this day - a sad indictment","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" 10/10. The young girls Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan are brilliant in a very difficult role. They should be proud as I certainly am. Sampi in particular is a very proud young lady - as she should be - and I hope in years to come she can bring herself back to the screen.I am a white fella but was distressed (a lot) when the girls were removed from their mother (was not myself born back then - in fact I don't think my own Mum/Dad were either).They girls are great despite such a distressing role and I am very proud of them.Indeed they walked over 1,000 kilometres such was their mettle. So to Molly, Gracie and Daisy - beautiful names - enormous spirit these girls had and the actors no less courage.I am sorry this ever happened and pray it will not happen ever again. "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker, pure gold! 100%","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is sooooooo sad! I cried my eyes out through it all. The horrific detail to this film is that it is a true story. Three girls; Molly, Daisy and Gracie are what is known as half-casts which means they have black and white blood in them and there skin is somewhere inbetween. The politician Mr. Neville who was in charge of the Aboriginal department of Australia decided on a treaty that stated that all half-casts are to be removed and put in camps where they will have the black culture 'bred' out of them. All three girls are taken from there home of Jindalong and taken something like 1200 miles away to one of the camps called More River. No child has escaped but they manage to and set back home 'ON FOOT!' This is horrific as it is brilliant as it shows Australia's true 'dark' aboriginal history. I wouldn't want to ruin the movie but it is all fact! 1200 miles is a long way for three kids between the ages of 6 to 14. None the less it shows the power of human spirit. "},{"Title":"great on every level","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence tells the story of how the Australian government used to steal Aboriginal children from their families and put them in reeducation camps to become servants for white people, and how three girls escaped and found their way home by following a fence erected to keep rabbits out of the farms.One thing about the movie is how it portrays A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh), the man who orders the girls kidnapped. Certainly his actions are racist, but you don't grow to hate him. He doesn't act out of cruelty; he believes that he's doing the right thing. Also, there's Moodoo (David Gulpilil), an Aborigine working with the government to kidnap children. We recognize that it's awful that he's working with the oppressors, but somehow he also gives the feeling that he can't continue like this.The scene where they kidnap the girls is beyond heart-wrenching. And since we were doing the same things to the Indians in the US, we have to own up to it too. A perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Psychic Lifeline","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit Proof Fence is set during a time and place we usually don't see of the island continent in the movies  1930's Western Australia.  it was policy during the time to forcibly relocate half-caste children from their families to camps far away with the intention of making them more white eventually to literally breed their color away by marrying into White families.  RPF follows the saga of three half-caste girls (and I mean girls whose ages range from eight to fourteen) from the capture and transport to the camp and their escape in their yearning to reunite with their mothers.Molly, the oldest, leads the little band so suddenly and matter-of-factly as if it was a crosstown hike instead of a 1500-mile cross country trek.  Everlyn Sampi is perfect as Molly with her bright and intelligent face to convey the determination, leadership and wiles to avoid being captured and to follow the fence that is the physical and spiritual connection to her home.Kenneth Branagh makes a surprise appearance as Mr. Neville (the devil to the Aborigines), the bureaucrat who by law is legal guardian of the children.  He does a good job of acting befuddled and bewildered as to why his charges wouldn't want to change for their own good.  He is incapable of noticing how the means (tearing families apart) is a far greater sin than the illusory ends (civilizing native peoples).The film makes a powerful point of how empowering one group of people necessarily disempowers others. "}{"Title":"Extremely moving","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Powerful and moving about Australia's yearlong mistreatment of the aborigines. This film won't undo anything, but it is important to bring stories like this to people's attention, specifically since many western cultures have been grounded on similar crimes. The story is beautifully executed allover from Peter Gabriel's soundtrack to wonderful cinematography and strong performances, especially by the kids. It moves slowly, but the incredible ending, which is comparable to that of Schindler's List, makes up for the pace.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't confuse the message with the medium","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After hearing raves about this film, I was anxious to see it. However, after seeing it, I think people who are raving about it are confusing the message with the medium.Yes, the message and history of the film is powerful and it's a story that needs to be told.No, the medium meaning this particular film is not as good as it could have been.Just because a subject matter is important and powerful doesn't mean the movie telling the story is good.SPOILERS ALERT!The story is basically three Aborigine girls, taken away from home, walk the long journey back home. A master searcher looks for them along the way. Kenneth Branagh plays Neville, the head of the Australian government office that controlled the Aborigines.In this film you've got basically three scenes - presented over and over again until there's nothing more to say1. Girls are walking 2. Searcher is looking for them 3. Neville is angry4. Girls are walking 5. Searcher is looking for them 6. Neville is angry7. Girls are walking and come upon a nice person who gives them food 8. Searcher is looking for them and thinks he spots them but doesn't say anything 9. Neville is angryI think we needed more - introduce the girls better - tell how each one is unique - without knowing them it's hard to care what happens to them (except as an overall reaction to racism against their people).Make it more obvious that the walk was a HUGE struggle. Until 2 of the girls passed out, they didn't seem to have a difficult time walking 800 miles, finding food and water, and basically staying sane. Showing the real women at the end was good and touching but certainly not tear-jerking.Overall I still give it 7 out of 10 because I think people need to know what happened in 1931 in Australia. "},{"Title":"This is a beautifully photographed film never letting us forget the children's need to be reunited with their mothers as a primal drive.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  `Everybody's got to have a home' is an idea oft repeated in art.  Earlier this year, a man ran for his life and family over the frozen tundra in `Fast Runner.' For my last review of 2002, I see we are still running for home and enduring the elements in `Rabbit Proof Fence,' where three aborigine children hike 1200 miles of Australian Outback to get home after being abducted by the British government in a purify-the-half-castes program.This is a beautifully photographed film never letting us forget the children's need to be reunited with their mothers as a primal drive.  The children use the Australian fence, which runs from north to south to keep rabbits and cattle on opposite sides, to guide them back home in 1931 with the expected run-ins with authority, personified by a believably narrow-minded administrator (Kenneth Branagh). His notion that scooping up mixed-race children to eradicate the culture is a benefit for the oppressed aborigines perfectly echoes the 19th-century British colonial zeal.Director Philip Noyce, who also directed this year's `Quiet American,' captures the challenge of fighting the establishment and the Outback, but he doesn't seem to know how to make the journey interesting story telling-not much happens as the children cunningly avoid the law. Peter Gabriel's indigenous score, however, well reflects the haunting allure of the Outback. `Walkabout's' David Gulpilil, playing a tracker torn between duty and racial loyalty, and Christopher Doyle's lush photography counterpoint the decadence of British imperialism.Other films this year were concerned with the longing for family unity `Harry Potter,' `Antwone Fisher,'  `Road to Perdition,' `Gangs of New York,' even the light-hearted `Catch Me If You Can.' In our age that touts `family values,' these films remarkably show how difficult it is to retain those values.Andre Maurois expressed the enduring need for family when he said, `Without a family, man, alone in the world, trembles with the cold.' Films of 2002 trembled. "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Possible spoilersAfter checking Noyce's past films and finding nothing of value, I'm forced to wonder what would compel him to make a film as quiet, assured and -- dare I say -- important as this. Perhaps he decided after making A-list trash that it's time to get down to business. He's also directed The Quiet American this year, which I have not seen, but I've heard good things. But I suspect being Australian, this story had a particular interest to him.I was unaware of the situation of Australian Aboriginal people, or, specifically half-caste Aboriginal people until seeing this film. Being Canadian I'm informed of our own country's former disgusting treatment of Aboriginal people.The film reminded me in spots of Malick's visual poetry. The style of Noyce and Malick has little in common aside from the occasional visual flourishes in this film. I was reminded specifically of Malick's Thin Red Line in more than one spot. Again, not for stylistic or aesthetic reasons. While watching the film and only recognizing Branagh (he plays a position of authority in the film -- his being famous suits his appearance) I began to think whether familiar actors are ever needed. With unknown (possibly unprofessional) actors like these, they wouldn't be. (OK, I'd get bored without getting to look forward to Penn, and Depp when in top form.) Branagh's appearance isn't as jarring as the introductions to the Big Stars in Thin Red Line (or, as effective in demonstrating one of that film's themes).What wonderful eyes the main girl has!Roger Ebert claimed something along the lines that this film has the most emotional ending since Schindler's List. Well, not being a fan of List I can say the endings have nothing in common. This film ends with a brief bit of real-life footage of the girls all grown up. It also isn't overbearing. It's simple, as it should be.This is a minor gem, and an honest one. After watching this movie I felt the same way I do after drinking a big glass of water all the crap I'd just eaten was washed away.3 1/2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"A Must See for John Howard","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  For years now Australian Aborigines  have wanted a public apology from the country's government for the stolen generation.  They have yet to receive it (if ever they will). This movie  gives people both inside and outside of Australia an understanding of the plight of the stolen generation as well as showing a dark part of the country's past. Full credit to the cast, crew, and production company for making this film.    "},{"Title":"Movingly unsentimental","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The true story of an amazing trek by three children wanting to go home, this is made by the clear and unsentimental telling of the journey.Credit to the director, who showed in The Bone Collector that he knows the standard Hollywood audience manipulation tricks, for leaving most of them behind when he took on this Australian tale.This story could easily have been told as a made-for-TV, based-on-a-true-story weepie festival of good and evil. Thank goodness the lives depicted were not demeaned by that kind of treatment.The younger girls are played as real but it is the actress playing the leader, Molly, who takes on a challenging central role underpinning the entire film and emerges with flying colours.So too does Kenneth Brannagh as Mr Neville. Despite the character being referred to frequently as Mr Devil, a view that sits well with today's sensibilities, he gives a convincing portrayal of a man doing what he believes is for the best.By making Neville's actions reasoned, matter of fact and almost reasonable this film has wider resonance how will today's paternal imperialism and 'world policemen' look in another 50 years?This must be uncomfortable viewing for many in modern Australia but the story has a universal power with simple themes of home, belonging and tolerance.The film ends with Molly as she is today and the few lines on her subsequent life are perhaps the most powerful and moving I've seen in cinema in a long time. "},{"Title":"Poignant story. So-so implementation.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very poignant subject matter - based on Doris Pilkington's book Follow The Rabbit Proof Fence - make this movie slightly better than it should be. The story was one that needed to be told but at the same time it's such a simple story that it doesn't lend itself all too well to 1.5 hours of film.It is all the more important to watch this movie because of the controversy surrounding it in Australia with critics attempting 'to convince Australians that all of this had been a product of false recall on behalf of indigenous people who could not accept the reality of their parents giving them away'. It mooted more controversy because it doesn't strictly stick to the original story but this criticism quickly disappeared when Doris Pilkington was in her own words forced by critics of the movie came out vocally in support of Noyce and Olsen. The government were even going to sponsor a leaflet campaign attacking the movie. This seems all the more unbelievable when the government still refuses to apologise for the sad history of the Stolen Generations.On another note the young actresses also deserve high praise for their acting. Fabulous performances from girls so young and with a subject matter of such force.As is usual the emotional high point comes at the end when we get some facts about the Stolen Generations displayed. Emotional stuff but there are a million more stories of this sort in Australia, lets hope this movie sets a precedent. "},{"Title":"Powerful story that will bring tears to your eyes.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS WITHIN*This film touched me deeply, the greatest scenes are not those with powerful dialogue (which is absent from the film) but those in which there is no speech. There are several scenes in particular which arouse emotion #1 The first time the children are taken, their mothers see the police car approaching and in a slow-motion act of fear turn and silently scream for them to run. Despite the mother's pleas and the girl's screams the cold-hearted constable drags them kicking and screaming into the car. #2 When a fellow Aborigional woman who came from the same centre tearfully begs them to stay with her for fear of being raped. #3 When Gracie is captured again and never returns. #4 When Molly and Daisy finally find their way home and #5 When you find that Molly's own daughter, Anabelle, is taken from her and never recovered. You will undoubtedly come to hate Mr. Neville (Devil) and despise the white people-even if you are white. And despair with the children's mother's and grandmother so stricken with grief.The perfomances are wonderful-particularly those of Molly, Daisy and Gracie, I hope to see them in the near future. This film does not have a lot of dialogue and is made up by the atmosphere, the mood and silent suffering. The music is perfectly fitting, in the scene where the girls first run away the fast drumming music causes your heart to beat as loud and as heart. The saddest thing about this movie though, is that it's true.I recommend this film to Australians and foriegners alike it gives brilliant insight to the untaught, darker areas of our history. I give it **********.    "},{"Title":"A heroic true story evocatively told","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Phil Noyce's film 'Rabbit-Proof Fence' has only recently opened however it looks like it will be very successful. Essentially its power lies in poignantly depicting a remarable true story. Three Aboriginal girls, Gracie, Daisy and Laura, are forcibly taken away from their family home in Jigalong, Western Australia and taken 1,500 miles away to Moore River to be trained as domestic servants, part of official Australian Government policy.  What ensues is that the iron-willed Molly makes a daring escape with her younger sisters from Moore River and they make their way back home on foot, being guided by the rabbit proof fence that sweeps across the Gibson desert and towards Jigalong. Everything just seems to work so well with this movie. Noyce's direction is restrained and so effective. The cast are excellent. The three young Koori actresses, Evelyn Sampi, Tianni Sansbury and Laura Monaghan give such natural, emotive performances.  They are supported by some of our finest, most experiences actors, including Deborah Mailman and Gary McDonald. Chris Doyle's cinematography of the Australian landscape is awesome and the soundtrack by ex Genesis star Peter Gabriel adds so much to the impact of the film. 'Rabbit-Proof Fence' makes a sure fire way to the heart. "},{"Title":"Touching but not engaging enough","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is about three aboriginal girls who escapes from a religious camp in Australia, trying to walk back to their home village hundreds of miles away.Rabbit-Proof Fence sounds very good on paper, as watching three young girls being forcibly removed from their family and their subsequent escape is a sure tear jerker. However, I find the story not so well told. It concentrates on the girls' escape in the scorching desert, and lacks excitement and suspense. There could have been so many subplots to make it exciting and engaging, such as facing wild animals in desert, running out of water, not being able to find food etc. There could also have been more humanistic side, portraying the girls' inner emotional turmoils. It would have been great if there were more people helping them even more passionately. As none of these happened in the film, we are only left with three girls wandering in the desert. The film ends up being dry and monotonous. "}{"Title":"Sobering, Saddening, Revealing","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Australia, a country with real cultural - and since 1941 - geo-strategic links with the United States gives us a steady supply of fascinating films. Several years ago The Dish, which didn't do well commercially, told the true story of Australia's partnering with the U.S. in the exciting explosion of space exploration.  The Australians of that film were white, largely educated and despite accents and indigenous slang very much like their Yank counterparts.Now comes Rabbit-Proof Fence, also a true tale but one which reflects a harrowing white insensitivity to the humanity of the continent's native inhabitants, lumped together as aborigines despite the obvious reality that they were, as were Native Americans, members of distinct tribal groupings.Australian law mandated, not permitted but decreed, that children born of mixed race unions be forcibly removed from their parents and taken to special settlements where dual goals might be achieved.  They would be trained as domestics for white people and also prepared to dilute through relationships with lighter skin people the genetic component of their color.Government officials supervised this process which lasted, almost unbelievably, until 1970.  In this film a slightly portly Kenneth Branagh plays a real civil servant, Mr. Neville, a man who wielded enormous power over Western Australia's natives.  He was the legal custodian of their lives and such futures as his country's laws allowed.Three young girls are forcibly abducted from their homes and taken to a school where white female nurses provide some semblance of humane care (given the situation). A black man with a daughter in the school, known as The Tracker, employs his considerable bush skills to hunt down runaways not appreciative of the government's plan for their future.The oldest girl leads the two others on a simply amazing trek through beautifully photographed but incredibly threatening and desolate outback territory ranging from semi-tropical to desert. The fence is their equivalent of the stars that guided escaping American slaves  through the maze of the Underground Railroad  These young actresses, with actions more than words, express love for home and parent and a fierce determination to march, crawl and stagger 1200 miles to get back.The Australia of the prewar years isn't portrayed as morally monochromatic - both whites and blacks alternately help and betray the  children.  The police are not cruel but individuals unquestioning of legal authority. One frantically waves an official order to a hysterical mother as he scoops, with his free arm, the struggling girls as one might snatch up barnyard chickens.The ending is powerful, moving and troubling.  Mr. Neville is no monster he's a true believer following then accepted-by-many theories of racial genetics.  He believes his government's program can prevent the emergence of a third race of half-castes by forcing the lighter skin aborigines to marry up the color chart. His simple pleasure rather than any sense of irony attends the command performance of Stephen Foster's Swanee River by the school's kids.  It's his favorite song so why shouldn't the children learn it?Director Phillip Noyes co-wrote the script with Christine Olsen, both of them also serving as co-producers.  They've done a fantastic job.Americans shouldn't feel superior to the Australian policy wonks.  We did exactly the same thing to Native Americans over a century ago, taking children away to mission schools to be civilized.More than a few people shed tears during the screening.  Don't let that possibility keep you from seeing Rabbit-Proof Fence.  It's both a true story and a celebration of life and courage.  And a warning about social engineering, bogus science and - worse - that peculiar blindness where some can not see ourselves in the bodies of those different solely by color and birth.9/10. "},{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence 5/10","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A critically acclaimed movie and a cynical fourteen-year-old walk into a movie theater...no, it's just not a bad joke, it's the truth. I am the cynical fourteen-year-old, and Rabbit-Proof Fence is the critically acclaimed movie, though it's hard for me to figure out how it is.Three kids, Molly (Everlyn Sampi), Gracie (Laura Monaghan), and Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) are three `half-caste' girls, half Aborigine and half `white man'. A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) is in charge of all Aborigines and tries to wipe out their culture and making them have Western culture. Gee, that doesn't seem at all like the United States' plan to a certain Middle Eastern country at all. Anyway, Molly, Daisy (who are sisters) and Gracie (who is their cousin) are sent to a reservation, but they decide to run off back to their home with no water, no food, and just a rabbit-proof fence to guide them, while Neville is trying to capture them.For a supposed bad guy to not be bad, or to have heroines not be heroic, that's never a good sign. Relating back to Iraq, President Bush is revered by many and is trying to influence other cultures, while Neville had everyone against him. I didn't find Neville to be `evil', he did just what he thought was right, and he certainly wasn't cruel or anything. He didn't want the kids dead. The three girls were foolish to think that they could survive for two months without any aid from anyone else.Branagh was very good, but he needed more screen time. How long can you keep attention on three girls walking? The girls have much to learn in acting. `Wide-eyed cuteness' can only get you so far. Great acting isn't just reading, it's emotion, and if these kids work again, they'll need to know that.Rabbit-Proof Fence has booming music in the middle of the desert where there shouldn't be any noise. Sure, Philip Glass' score is excellent, but there isn't any for a lot of the time, so the unnecessarily booming score was wasted. One part that seemed odd was that eagle, that, in the beginning, was told that it brings us hope, and we don't hear of it again for one hour or more, and then it comes up again. It should have been kept in our minds for the time.On the contrary, it was solid entertainment. Of course, I did know that because of the narration with Molly, she was going to live (unless it was American Beauty-esque, but I digress), and there was going to be a final confrontation, but I wasn't sure of exactly how it was going to turn out, which kept me interested and not focused on the flaws of the film. It is a tremendous true story, but the way it's presented isn't that great.It seemed to have been dramatized just for movies, since everything seemed so intense and overdone. Also, if they were out in the sun for two months, wouldn't they be sunburned and the whole nine yards? Rabbit-Proof Fence is just another `remarkable true story with one big star in it and many unknowns who will never work in films again.' It's not worth seeing unless you're really into this type of film.My rating 5/10Rated PG for emotional thematic material. "},{"Title":"servicable melodrama","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit-Proof Fence is a serviceable melodrama about the plight of a trio of escapee Aboriginal girls travelling back to their settlement. The film looks great, the story is simple but strong and the performances by the three young girls, and Kenneth Branagh are all very good. The other performances, though, are below standard and they disrupt the emotional force of the film. And, at times, Noyce's unsubtle direction errs towards overstatement, and the writing is occasionally simplistic and one-sided. The issue of `Stolen Children' is a valid one in Australia, but it is an extremely complex one, an aspect that this film fails to convey.  "},{"Title":"Sentimental garbage. Watch Walkabout instead.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Yes Mr. Noyce, Australia's assimilation policy was a misguided and bad thing. We all agree with you. So why do you waste all that celluloid trying to prove something we all knew anyway? We came to see a movie, not a manipulative political ad. Show us something new. Show us something subtle. Show us something unexpected. Give us some moral ambiguity. Your film would have been a lot more interesting if the white government officials were more sympathetic, if some of the aboriginal children actually liked life in the camp with lots of other kids to play with, and if some of the aboriginal moms had a less pleasant side. In other words, show us some shades of gray.  "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The most disturbing thing about this movie is that it is true.Thankfully it relays a story that needs to be told about the Australian Government's policy of taking half-caste children from their Aboriginal mothers and sending them a thousand miles away to what amounts to indentured servitude in 1931 Molly, Daisy, and Grace (two sisters and a cousin who are 14, 10, and 8) arrive at their Gulag and promptly escape, under Molly's lead. For days they walk north, following a fence that keeps rabbits from settlements, eluding a native tracker and the regional constabulary.The film is surprisingly captivating considering that very little happens during the journey and the lead actress Everlyn Sampi who plays Molly is especially good. It is hard to believe that all the child actors and extras had never acted before this film.I would highly recommend this as a must watch movie. "},{"Title":"compelling historical drama","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's 1931. The government in the Chief Protector of Aborigines A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) is the legal guardian of every Aborigine in Western Australia. Government agents would remove half-caste children from their parents. Sisters Daisy and Molly Craig along with their cousin Gracie are taken from their tribe, the Jigalong mob. Molly's father is a white man who was working on the rabbit-proof fence. She leads the trio in an escape. They follow the fence back home tracked closely by native Moodoo. Neville directs a massive manhunt to find the three little girls.It's a compelling historical drama. The little girls are great especially Everlyn Sampi. It also has the great David Gulpilil. Seeing the real Molly Craig and Daisy Craig Kadibill in present day is what truly kills me. It's an amazing true story. "},{"Title":"Very powerful and moving film. Highly recommended!","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is an Australian drama film directed by Phillip Noyce in 2002 and based on the true story of the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington Garimara. The film brings attention to the Stolen Generations, the children who were removed from their families by the Australian Federal and State government agencies and church missions. The issue is still very controversial in Australia, despite the fact that on the 13th of February 2008 Kevin Rudd presented the apology to Indigenous Australians. The film follows the journey of three Aboriginal girls who were taken from their home and as they run away from the authorities, they follow the Australian rabbit proof fence on foot for 1500 miles. The film if very powerful, it shows the Australian wilderness, the rough landscape of the desert, and the way in which the three girls struggle to survive and get home. Not only is it well made, but also tells a very important story, which still affects the lives of thousands of people in Australia. It is highly recommended for people of all ages and all nationalities as the story is universal speaking of one type of people believing to be superior to others and trying to impose their rules and culture on to those they find inferior, believing they they will do them a favour and therefore they should be grateful rather than try to fight it. I believe that this part of history should be brought into light and discussed, and not hidden and forgotten. I, myself, found it educational as well as moving and touching, because it somehow reminded me of Natzi Germany and the fact that history may repeat itself if we are not careful. "},{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence is a real winner.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is a 2002 film and it is a real winner. It is directed by Phillip Noyce. The book is by Doris Pilkington and the screenplay is by Christine Olsen. The cast includes Evelyn Sampi, Tianna Sanbury, Laura Monaghan, David Gulpilil, Ningali Lawford, Myann Lawford, Deborah Mailman, Jason Clarke and Kenneth Branagh. The film is told in a steady, unsentimental tone that allows the film to be powerful without the typically Hollywood use of sweeping music or other such lazy tools. Instead the circumstances of the story create the emotion. The story is a little weak at some points &#x96; once the children escape the film has a touch too many scenes of near-capture and escape to sustain the drama. Also the film (understandably) lends a lot of respect to the Aborigines &#x96; giving them a sense of mysticism that they maybe don't deserve. This is a slight problem when a key action involves a hawk that is supposedly summoned by their mothers (or something!). However these are minor complaints given the sweeping emotion of the film and the sheer power of the story. I gave this film 9 stars. "},{"Title":"*Spoiler* Review","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-proof Fence (2002) is a story of three young girls who were from their homes was for ethnic cleansing purposes by the protagonists. Called half-caste children, they were considered a type of third race, and science was unable to do DNA and blood tests so they backed their reasoning by showing photographs of different generations of 'breeding out' the native aboriginal blood. After escaping from Moore River, a dormitory resembling a compound, they are tracked by a professional tracker and outsmart him, an ironic twist in the fact that they were taken from home to isolate the dark-skinned less intelligent girls from the rest of society. Two girls make the long journey, and even after returning home, they escape with their mother into the desert where the antagonist Molly is eventually caught and returned to the camp. When I first started watching this film, I thought perhaps the girls were being stolen for slavery purposes. The constables who led the search for the girls justified their morals by saying they were doing this for the children's own good, and to help society by reabsorbing the aboriginals back into white culture (where the lightest skinned children were spared from the grim dormitory lifestyle for real schools because they were supposedly more likely to succeed). In the 1930's Australia was still suffering major debts and depression after WWI. In Culture And Customs of Australia, author Laurie Clancy saysFarmers were forced off their land, city-dwellers were evicted from their homes and often took to the road in search of subsistence. Shanty towns grew up, with police constantly moving vagrants along. Women with children were considered a financial debt, and children an unnecessary burden. (p. 29)This explains why there was nobody willing to stand up for these children, although they do meet sympathetic strangers along the way. Another thing I learned from researching the history of Australia is that the children who became survivors still struggle with cultural identity and family issues. They are known as the Stolen Generation. This film was comparable to 12 Years A Slave where actor Solomon Northup is drugged and sold into the black market as a slave, regardless of the fact that he has his papers declaring him a free man. The first time we see his character cry is for someone else; in Rabbit-proof Fence the eldest girl Molly (still a baby herself at 12 years old) cries only after the first hour of the movie when her sister is taken. Solomon sees other captive slaves hung and beaten for escape yet he waits for his moment; Molly does the same, convincing her sisters to join her when the time is right. Solomon had strip naked and share a washtub with others as guards looked on, stealing their modesty. Molly is washed by the nuns in an outside shower and has to defecate into a bucket in the corner of the over-crowded dormitory. Both characters have their rights stripped away from them, and at this point death is a better alternative to their certain miserable future. Though these movies are both based on history of a hundred years ago, the themes of racism and dominating of others persists in our country and others around the world today. Mixed- race couples in America get ostracized for marriage and for having children, although modern science clearly shows we are ALL mixed race of some sort or another and that there IS no full- blood in America today. Some gays and lesbians have even adopted the word queer to self- define, a way of stripping the derogatory power of that word from society. Many issues regarding aborigines still persists throughout Australia today, with two schools of thought regarding whether they should be isolated or reabsorbed back into society and given the same rights and opportunities as fair skinned settlers. has Clancy's book speaks of this disparity, and of today's gender issues in the country. Did you know that Waltzing Matilda, the unofficial song of Australia, has nothing to do with a woman dancing, but refers to the swag of cloth or matilda worn by bushmen? I also learned that it wasn't until 1962 that aboriginals gained the right to vote! This is a great film, and the true story behind it is worth looking into. "},{"Title":"Its potential and success was not caged in a fence","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A tragic and painful account of young aboriginal girls who were taken away from home to have...as the whites perceived... a better life and proper education, which later fled and struggled a near impossible journey just to get back home...its fascinating that there are actually no baddies as the whites(kenneth) were trying to help them but the lack of understanding between the 'helper' and the 'victims' brought certain unwanted results. Simple plot and amazingly natural acting by the native youths sets this show apart from the rest and great enough to stand out as a memorable movie...there is no doubt that everyone will feel deeply towards the 3 little girls so do expect a little tear-jerking scenes! "}{"Title":"Does Australia make more films like this?","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is in my opinion the best Aussie drama to hit any of the screens. I decided to take a look at this because I hate the Australian's over-usage of comedy films and feel-good films (basically all the Australian films that get any recognition here) and decided that I wanted a change of pace, something that knows what it is and doesn't fit into the categories above at any point. My first stop was this movie.Basically this movie is about The Stolen Generation, a rather forgotten chapter in our history despite it ending in the 1970's. It's where the Australian government took half-aboriginal children away from their homes so they could never be seen again by their parents, they grow up and marry a white family and then by the third generation in that family they're white.This focuses on three children who were a part of the stolen generation and decided to walk to their homes, which happens to be on the other side of the country. The one thing they do know about it is that in the area there is a rabbit-proof fence of which they'll follow back to their homes.I liked this film a lot, it is such a refreshing change of pace in comparison with the comedies and feel-good movies being made. I would recommend this to anybody who wants a refreshing change of pace in the Australian film industry. "},{"Title":"Visual Mastery and poignant historical account. Bravo Phillip Noyce!","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie will interest a limited audience because of its subject matter; those who like to learn about history through film will rejoice in this work by Phillip Noyce. He has credits for visual impact films (several hits in fact) and has chosen here to put his expertise to use in the telling of an important and also shameful legacy of Australia's policy and practice back in the late 1920s and early 1930s. It was not the only country to display despicable treatment of natives; many powerful countries share that dubious distinction (even today if you are up on world events). The Peter Gabriel movie score was a pleasant surprise. The title was well chosen and its choice is quickly apparent from early on in the film; researching information on the actual 'rabbit-proof fence' (the most impressive fence in the world), I found fascinating tidbits.The cinematography is awe-inspiring, and like in the movie 'The Way Back', it plays a role as important as some of the characters themselves. What the director has done with unknown cast, not even amateurs, is positively wonderful. You can't help but be moved by their performances, truly. It matters not that this is a 2002 movie because it takes place in the early part of the 20th century; the lesson we get from it however is timeless. I did not go see it when it was released and for those like me who have not, it is well worth watching now. "},{"Title":"Rabbit proof fence","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is about the aboriginal girls Gracie, Daisy and Molly, and it's a true story. They are from the half caste generation, also called the stolen generation Their home is named Jigalong and the kids in the movie were taken by force from their families, far away from Jigalong to Moon River where they are going to be taught to be servants. The girls managed to escape the camp together, and they walked all the way from Moon River to Jigalong, and they follower the rabbit proof fence. Everybody was looking for them, and they were in the newspapers every day.The minister in charge of the half-caste people was Mr. Neville. He did everything he could do to bring the girls back to the camp again, but he failed.The girls walked continuous for about 9 weeks and they had to fight through the rough landscape of Australia's desert, without food or water. Sometimes, the camera was filming like we were a crocodile crawling towards them. I liked that, because it felt like I was in the movie.What I liked about this movie was that it is a true story, and two of the girls, Molly and Daisy, are still alive. The ladies are 80 years now. But when they were younger, they were three strong girls who just wanted to go home, because they missed their families. And they managed to walk the 1500 miles to Jigalong, and that is really impressive! The actors acted very convincing. I would like to recommend this movie for people who are interested in history, and people who just like to watch a good movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof FenceProduction year 2002 Country Australia Runtime 94 Minutes Director Phillip Noyce Cast e.g. Tianna Sunsbury, Ningali Lawford, Myarn Lawford, Natasha Wanganeen The film Rabbit Proof Fence is about the stolen generation in Australia and three half-cast kids who fight against the government. It is set in 1931, when the Chief Protector of Aborigines consequently persecuted the Australian interbreeding of races. He wants to make the Aborigines English speaking workers for white people. Victims of this politics become also Molly, Daisy and Gracie &#x96; three half-cast kids which were taken away from their family to bring them to the Camp Moore River. This Camp is 1500 miles away from their home, but Molly still tries to run away with Gracie and Daisy. Their only orientation in this endless nothing is the rabbit proof fence, which runs through the whole continent. Because of the forensic detective Modoo from the Camp Moore River it comes to a very exciting pursuit.In my opinion the natural filming of rabbit proof fence a really great and the actors fit really good in this movie. Besides I think that the movie is great, because you can get the meaning of the film although there is not much speaking in it. The only thing that could be better is that the movie could be a little longer and that there could be a little more background information about the characters e.g. how the tracker Modoo who had to catch the children stands to his job, because in the movie it seems like he did not really want to catch the kids.All in all I think that Rabbit Proof Fence is a really good movie, because the actors are really great and the story is very exciting. Besides there are interesting facts about the Australian history, so the movie is not only entertaining but you can also learn from it. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie &#x84;Rabbit- proof fence is directed by Phillip Noyce and it runs 94 minutes of time. It is about a true story in Australia. There are aboriginal girls Molly, Gracy and Daisy, which are taken away from there home country Jigalong, all because of they are half- caste. The white people wants the aboriginal people to marry a white man. So the 3rd generation will bee white an civilized. Mr. Neville who owns the camp let the three  half-castes catch and let them carry to Moore river. The three girls don't want to be in Moore river and so Molly ( the oldest one) decided to take Daisy and Gracy to go 1.500 miles along the longest fence in the world back to Jigalong. They walk and they are hunted from some trackers which task is to bring them back to Moore river. One tracker, called Moodoo was an aborigine, too and so at the end it doesn't really seem like he really wants to take them back. The movie is very interesting, because you can have sympathy with the three girls. You can duplicate how bad the aborigines are treated and the reasons why the white people want to civilize the aboriginal people. It's like you are a part of the story because you can see them bear. Their way was a life of suffering.  Rabbit &#x96; proof fence is great to understand the relationship between aborigines and white people. It was terrible and quite unfair. It lets you feel sympathy for the whole  stolen generation. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Review Rabbit-Proof FenceLong Way Home which is directed by Phillip Noyce was published in 2002. The film follows the same storyline as the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington. Filmstars are Everlyn Samp, Tianna Sansbury, Laura Monaghan, Kenneth Branagh and David Gulpilil. The music of Rabbit-Proof Fence was composed by Peter Gabriel. It takes place in the Outback of Australia and it shows three girls and their mother living peacefully. The three girls are half-cast-children, so their mother is an Aborigine and their father is white. After a while the kids are taken to a education camp and get separated from their mother, but they escape from this camp and try to walk 1500 miles to her home on foot, while being tracked by Australian officials. The film tells a true story of the stolen generation and shows the conflict between Whites and Aborigines. Rabbit-Proof Fence is recommendable for English students who study Australia, because there is a lot of Australian history in it. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film &#x82;Rabbit-Proof Fence', directed by Phillip Noyce, was published in year 2002. The main actors are Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury, Kenneth Branagh, Jason Clarke and David Gulpilil. The studio which the film was made in is Miramax.Between 1905 and 1971 the Australian government removed half-casts from their home to place them with white families in hope that children of mixed races would become whiter and can remove the black colour from Australia. Based on a true story, the 'Rabbit-Proof Fence' is about three children removed from their home in Jigalong and transported to the Moore River settlement. Their father is a white one and is a Proof-Fence worker, so they're half-castles and the Chief Protector of Aborigines Mr. A.O. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) wants them to teach right and wrong. The oldest of the three children Molly (Everlyn Sampi) wants to go back home to her mother Maude (Ningali Lawford). She's going to take her little sister Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) and their cousin Gracie (Laura Managhon) with her. Their long, long way back home, following the Rabbit-Proof Fence, begins with the fear to be taken by the taken by the tracker Modoo(David Gulpilil), who is following them all the time. Such a film is very interesting, because all is based on a true story and it handles a big Australian history point. You get to know the situation of the half-casts and specially of their mothers and other family persons. You see the pain in their faces, so the actors are great chosen and they give you the feeling all happened is real. All in all the film is very worthwhile to watch it and I would support it! "},{"Title":"Review Long Walk Home","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie Rabbit proof fence directed by Phillip Noyce tells the story of three girls walking 1500 miles to find their mother after being brought away by the government in the 1930s. The movie adapts the true facts of the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington, a daughter of Molly Craig who was one of the girls. The duration of the movie is 91 minutes and the script was written by Christine Olsen, the music by Peter Gabriel. During the early decades of the 20th century, so called half-cast children were picked away from their families by white Australians to keep them away from contaminating the rest of the Australian society. So the tree girls Molly (Everlyn Sampi), Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) and Gracie (Laura Monaghan) were brought to the Moore-River-Station. They run away after a few days from the camp to make the journey back home. They are hunted by a camp-employee, who's task is to bring them back to the camp. The movie is not that exciting, but it is worth to watch it, if you are interested in the history of Australia. It's testimony to the suffering of the stolen generations. "},{"Title":"Moving and Inspirational","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A very moving and inspirational story of three aboriginal Australian girls that takes place in the 1930's. The three girls are sisters and the product of a mixed marriage. Due to this they are forcibly removed from their mother and sent to a school shelter a thousand miles away.The three girls escape this school and begin an arduous journey back to be re-united with their mother and family. It's very simply told and ennobling. If the purpose of film-making is to take a true story and put it to the screen with as little frills as possible, then this is a wonderful success! I do wish there were more films like this instead of all the slap-stick special effects and explosions which are the standard these days. "},{"Title":"Rabbits","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I had it playing as background but was soon gripped by it. A simple story but marvellously told. A low key secondary performance by Branagh, which is how I prefer him. The story may not be strictly factual - it's hard to imagine how those girls could have survived on such a long trek through inhospitable territory. There is only one scene where they appear to need water or suffer from its unavailability. Most touching is the charitable response of most of the people they meet along the way, although I appreciate this maybe be cheesy heartstring stuff cleverly vectored in by the scriptwriter. The aborigine cast were all brilliant, but I wonder how many of them got the chance to extend their careers. Also an encouraging lack of aborigine 'magic' as touted in films like Apollo 13. This was merely a sub-ordinated race struggling to survive, different from their 'masters' by virtue of their ongoing culture but certainly not magical, and certainly not inferior. "}{"Title":"No Aussy Wildlife and no survival techniques??","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I eagerly anticipated watching RPF just last week. It just happened to be one of those movies that slipped past me......I was sure I would see Kangeroos and Dingos...maybe not Koalas granted...but even Emus...and surely snakes of one sort or another....along with survival skills...but not a dicky bird....and not a straw going into the ground to suck up water ...witchety grubs being eaten alive.ZILCH. which only leads me to believe that the actual walk along the RPF may have been more leisurely than we imagine...along only inhabited regions, living off of hand-outs?? I also wish there had been more sights of maps and  we are here...they are there explanations and mentions of actual miles/kms travelled and the logistics of it all better explained. Very disappointed!!! "},{"Title":"A film review","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is based on a true story about three Aboriginal girls who go on a journey to find their own mother after being taken away. The film is set in Western Australia during the 1930's. A.O. Neville was to take the three Aboriginal girls (Molly Craig, Daisy Kadibil, and their cousin Gracie Fields) to his re-education camp by force. The girls did not like being in the camp so they decided to run away back to their homeland. This film shows a lot of emotion through a few things. The performance of the actors makes it look very believable. Like the scene where the police arrives and takes away the girls from their mother. Or the scene when the girls (minus Gracie) return to their mother and show that sense of happiness. It's the type of film that makes you feel mostly sad, but also happy and scared at times. Camera angles help tell the story better. When it shows the girls moving along the Rabbit-Proof Fence, it shows just how much more of their journey they had to walk to get to their mother. And the opening shows what the story may just be about. Overall, this film is great, and I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"The Stolen Generation","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Australia is a great nation, it sunny, has a nice environment, the people are very friendly and it is becoming a more multicultural nation, with people from many different backgrounds, British and Irish, Serbian, Croatian, Maltese, Italian, Chinese, Thai, etc.... But Australia is also a nation that has to face up to racist past, with the government only recently apologising to the Aboriginal people. The Aborigines is still a community that suffer from major social issues like alcoholism.In 1931 Australia had a long standing policy of removing 'Half-Caste' (i.e. mixed race) children from Aboriginal families. They were taken to camps to be trained to be domestic servants and farm labourers. The aim was 'to breed the black out' from mixed race people. In Western Australia in the community of Jigalong are two sisters, Molly Craig (Everlyn Sampi) and Daisy Kampill (Tianna Sansbury) and their cousin Gracie (Laura Monaghan), live with their mum and grandmother. The protector of Aborigines, Mr. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) orders the girls to be taken away from their family and place them in Moore River Camp, run by nuns. The girls led by Molly make a run for it, aiming for the rabbit-proof fence that was near their home. On the way their have to avoid the police and the tracker Moodoo (David Gulpilil). They also meet allies, both white and Aboriginal, who help them find their way home.There is excellent acting from the child actresses on a simple mission to get home. Young actors tend to be fearless, and in this film their did a wonderful job, particularly Everlyn Sampi and Tianna Sansbury. Everlyn Sampi shows Molly as a intelligent, resourceful teenager who could outwit an expert tracker. Their is excellent chemistry between the young actors. Kenneth Branagh offers a more subtle, realistic performance as the villain of the film. It could have been easy to portray Neville as a one-dimensional character. But he is show to be a more real character, he believes in the racist theories, and doesn't believe that Whites and Aborigines should mix, but he believes he was doing it for the benefit of the Aborigines, making his character more complex.The director of the piece was Phillip Noyce, a surprising choice. He was a man known more for making action films, like Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger (the best Tom Clancy adaptions), The Saint and The Bone Collector. Here he makes a more gritty film, showing the horrors of the camp, like there not even being a toilet, and tough, rough conditions of Western Australia (Australia's least populated state). Even the countryside plays it part in this film. Noyce does a solid job with this film.Despite the positives, there are a couple of small problems. The main bad-guys in the film, Neville and the nuns were English, whilst the good white people were rural, salt of the Earth Australians. I'm sure that there would have been a more mixed picture, with plenty of white Australians being racist in the 1930s. But as stated, even with the villains their at least believed their were doing the right thing. It also felt like the girls were a bit too lucky meeting nice people on the way home, and their is a minor historical inaccuracy civilians did volunteer for the search, fearing for the girls welfare.This is a worthy film, especially if you are interested in the Stolen Generation, social history and of course, a very good story. "},{"Title":"Truth can be stranger than fiction","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Having seen almost everything in my local video stores, I'm now reduced to re-watching some old favorites and trying some obscure titles while awaiting new releases. The obscure titles are usually a large gamble but every now and then you find a diamond. This is a diamond...Rabbit Proof Fence is about a fence. An actual real, physical fence and it's also about a social fence, about a society's plan to keep out an undesirable element and about the indefatigable human spirit that, in the final analysis, usually shows such plans to be absurd.This is a quite amazing true story about an event that occurred between the Australian government and the Jigalong area Aborigines in the 1930's outback. It is not a glamorous, Made in Hollywood type production; there might actually be a dozen or so people in this film. There are a handful of animals, a couple of cars, the occasional building, some laundry, a rifle. And a fence.Still here? Good. If you were a little less than totally fulfilled by Steven Segal's last few films you are probably going to love this movie. As the story unfolds, you may wonder, as I did what is going to happen to these children if they actually manage to reach the intended end of their journey? And you will continue to wonder, right to the very end. And then you will be amazed and then angered and then amazed again and angered again and amazed yet again, then angered yet again and finally - amazed.Do yourself a favor, watch it. A real gem. "},{"Title":"Compelling film with fine understated performances","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence charts the awe-inspiring real-life journey back home of three aboriginal children across the desolate outback of Australia. The film shows these events in a matter-of-fact manner and generally avoids emotional manipulation. The pace is sedate, the scenery deliberately low-key, and the music is spare but effective. The three children and their tracker (David Gulpilil) all give effective performances. Kenneth Branagh is great in a brief understated role as someone in a position of power who has an appalling world view (by current standards). Despite some extraneous mysticism and a few white caricatures, the film is well worth watching.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"All creatures great and small...","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The backdrop of RABBIT-PROOF FENCE is the touching story of how the indigenous peoples of Australia were oppressed and eventually almost eradicated by the European settlers, much in the same way that the early American settlers were. The story of the discrimination against the Aborigines is a sad and moving one, and one that is oftentimes overlooked. In Phillip Noyce's exceptional drama, we get a glimpse into the hardships suffered by these people, told primarily through the memorable struggle of three half-caste girls (half-white, half-Aboriginal) who are, by law, taken away from their native homes and families in order to be trained in the 'White Man's way of life' and eventually either breed with white males in an effort to 'cleanse' the Aborigine out of them, or be put to work as a domestic servant.The story is an epic and heartfelt one, and viewers will profoundly question elements of racism and humanity long after its ~90 minute run-time. The acting by Everlyn Sampi is exceptional; she never flinches or loses hope even in the face of hardships that most people will never understand. Kenneth Branagh is excellently cast as the 'villain', though in hindsight he cannot really be regarded as evil, as he firmly believes his actions are just and righteous. Lines like In spite of himself, the Native must be helped. make him seem that he truly believes that he is right, and he is just doing his job; as such, his 'villain' stature may be even scarier than most villains portrayed in Motion Pictures.The screenplay is quite brilliant, and the story progresses well, successfully drawing the viewer in. As with (most) Australian films, the cinematography is breathtaking, but not so much that it takes away from the leading story. Moreover, the music, based on the 'environmental' rhythms of native Australia, is superb and effective in telling the story.This is an overall amazing movie; one that should not be missed. For this reason, this film gets 3.5 stars (out of 4) and a solid 8/10. This should feature well in my 'Honourable Mentions' list. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fine Film, but a little lacking in background and drama","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Great cinematography by Christopher Doyle, great music by Peter Gabriel, great story/ premise, etc.-- but all-in-all the film was just good, without being great. Trying to convey the background or drama through visuals and music can be a great way of present a straightforward story-- but a controversial premise like that of the Rabbit-Proof Fence requires more depth than stunning visuals and emotive music can give. So I am a little disappointed that the director or screen-writer stayed on the level of presenting archetypes instead of confronting the issues in this social/ historical drama-- more screen time was spent on the landscape and the chase than the history or characterizations. "},{"Title":"Claiming back a heritage","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is one of the few films that by far exceed the book they're based on. Obviously, some features are missing from the printed page, such as the wonderful Australian landscape (shot intentionally with not too bright colors so as not to make it tacky), Peter Gabriel's amazing music or the fantastic acting by the Aboriginal children (and adults). But the film adds more. While the book is just an individual story of three girls escaping from a settlement because they long for home, the film adds the whole context of subtle racism prevalent in Australia, as I was shocked to find out, until the 1970s. The lecture about how to breed out the aboriginal blood from half-caste children or the separation of light-skinned kids who could be sent to proper school because they pass for white are as much a part of this as the Aboriginal maid molested by her employer or the tracker who is made to follow and try to catch the kids who have done just what he himself wishes to do. These two Aboriginal adult characters are a great addition to the story, a reflection of what might have become the three girls if they hadn't run away.To us, white people, this film is a reminder that we mustn't force our culture on anybody. To Aboriginals, it was the first feature film about the stolen generation, the story of how the culture of Aboriginal people was systematically suffocated until recently. I deeply respect Philip Noyce, as a white Australian, for facing the mistakes of his own race and conveying this message to all those spectators who sat in for a moving story about kids and got much more. "},{"Title":"We Always Know Best","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a film about the arrogant superiority of Western culture. It's about a group of people, minding their own business, that must be saved by a government, immersed in Christian pomposity. The children, the heroes of the film, face amazing obstacles, just to return to their lives in the desolate Australian outback. The British governors and their ilk feel they are doing them a favor, setting them up in menial jobs, taking away their culture and their language. But, in this case, the human will is going to challenge that force and attempt to right things. This sort of stuff has been going on for centuries. Those that have the word can't be satisfied with it; they must take away the basic human rights of others and force their beliefs on them. This film is suspenseful and riveting. It is set in a bleak, arid climate. The rabbit proof fence is there to ward off the overpopulation of rabbits, introduced late to Australia. The fence, of course, is a symbol for separation of cultures. The aborigine population are anathema to the new invaders and, in some ways, equal to the jackrabbits populating their side of the fence. See this movie. It's an eye opener. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This Movie to me was one of the most Authorentic Tails of the stolen generation of the Austrailan Indigenous people. The documentary style begging just gives us that little more back ground which is good. The Acting of the three Girls is Fantastic Even no before the started the movie the were untrained. The Casting of Molly Craig was Fantastic the Girl who acted her Brings an Authentic feel to the movie. This Movie emotional Drains you. The Scene where the three girls are taken from there mothers aseptically is. I think the scene where the Grandmother is hitting her self with rock relates to our culture with self inflicted harm because if you are in that much emotional pain you use the method of self inflicting to contract that. THIS Movie IS ONE OF THE BEST Movies OF OUR TIMES "}{"Title":"This is a film which is impossible to forget","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to see this movie.In my country,the film was released in only 5 cinemas.I went to see it to a very little art cinema and I was the only person who was watching this film.It is a shama that this great film was only released on 5 cinemas.It should have been released on a lot of cinemas.But now,I'll talk about this great movie.This is an excellent movie,very emotive film.The greatest thing about this perfect movie is that it doesn't have cheap sentimentalism;this film brings real emotions.The three girls'performance are simply amazing.Rabbit proof fence is a movie which is impossible to forget.I totally recommend this movie because it's really weird to find such a good film as this one. "},{"Title":"A very daring journey for children.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Doris Pilkington, the author of the book 'Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence', was the daughter of Molly, the central character of the film. In 1931, the Australian government was removing half-caste children from their parents and taking them to a school where they would be trained to integrate with whites. It was felt that if they married a white, then their children would neither look nor act aboriginal. Full-blooded aboriginal children were not involved in this.Molly and her younger sister and a young cousin escape from such a school and walk 1500 miles back to their home, guided by the rabbit-proof fence, which was built right across the country to prevent rabbits from spread around the whole country.I found the final scene, showing the real sisters as they looked when this film was made, to be very moving. "},{"Title":"great movie about awful period in history","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie is great. It's heart breaking, but also extremely hopeful and insightful. The young girls, particularly Evelyn, who plays Molly, were exceptional. I had no idea that this happened in Australia, and until the 1970's. I'm glad to know although it's just awful and heart-breaking. I admire and applaud the real-life ladies who made that journey when they were so young. God bless them and the other young children of the Stolen Generations. The documentary about the film was great too. It was insightful about the process that can go on between directors and actors. To see the cast and crew really feel and even discover what happened to these families was really moving. They really invested themselves. See it, especially if you don't know anything about the Stolen Generations you should see it. "},{"Title":"Intense Drama-Adventure Story Of Child's Odyssey Through The Australian Outback","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Molly, Daisy and Gracie are three kids from Jigalong in Western Australia in 1931, who are sent to Moore River Native Settlement camp for half-caste children. They run away, and, using a coast-to-coast rabbit fence as a guide, walk the twelve-hundred miles home.This is an amazing true story of love, courage and determination. Molly's one and only goal is to be reunited with her mother and nothing is going to stop her; not the authorities, not the incredible distance, not the hardships and dangers of the journey, not anything. She's one fourteen-year-old girl against the world and she triumphs, even if her triumph is only short-lived. The film makes a very powerful social statement about the treatment of half-caste Aborigine children with great subtlety, always focusing on the girls' story and what it means to them, rather than political moralising. As is often the case, the largely non-actor cast give strong, naturalistic performances (especially the kids) that add realism to the drama, and are ably supported by Branagh as the officious, mannered, deluded Chief Protector of Aborigines. Equally good is the iconic Gulpilil as the haunted, implacable tracker who is sent to catch the kids; his amazing features and potent screen presence add much here, as in his other films (Walkabout, The Last Wave, Crocodile Dundee). There's fantastic, moody, electro-percussive music by Peter Gabriel and terrific Steadicam photography by Christopher Doyle, shot in great locations all over southern and western Australia. Based on a book by Doris Pilkington Ganimara, Molly's daughter, this is a great change of pace for Aussie director Noyce (who previously made a series of big-budget Hollywood fare), and an exciting, thought-provoking odyssey story. "},{"Title":"Makes my feet hurt","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" True story about three little girls in Australia in the 1930s who escape from what amounts to a government holding facility for their own good just because they are half-caste citizens. The government felt that ripping them from their parents and training them to be in the white man's world would be a better thing for society. Go figure. The girl's take off, hoofing it across the desert, walking over 1,000 miles to get back to their mum all the while outwitting the trackers and the soldiers who are looking to bring them back to civilization. Also good is the Making of featurette on the disk, one of the best I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"positive review of the movie","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit-Proof fence tells a terrible story about a very dark time in Australian history. It tells the story in a very simple and moving way. The simple desire of these real women to life as their culture and history led them was wonderfully conveyed. Seeing these women 'in the flesh' at the end of the movie was a great way of underscoring the impact of the movie. This was no Hollywood ending, the women had a difficult life, but one of their choosing.The Austrlian Governments plan to bred the natives out of existence is a horrible fact of that countries past. The slavery, abuse and rape of these and the destruction of an ancient culture are still felt today. This is a very powerful movie and I recommend it as worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Illustrates the infinite powers of human desires","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've always considered Phillip Noyce a competent director but never a great artist. That consideration changed after I watched Rabbit Proof Fence. This is one of the best films I have seen in recent years.The plot tells the true story of three Australian aborigine girls (two sisters and a cousin) in the 1930s whom are separated from their families by an official policy that allows the government to take control and decide the destiny of all the 'half-caste' children (sons and daughters of a white parent and an aborigine parent). The girls, guided by the oldest one named Molly (Everlyn Sampi, a natural talent with a commanding screen presence), decide to escape from their captors and return home in an amazing journey with improbable happy results.The cinematography by Christopher Doyle is just splendid capturing the beauty and the toughness of the Australian outback and Peter Gabriel's music helps to enhance every frame.Rabbit Proof Fence is a cinematic statement against the lack of tolerance and respect that the so called 'civilized' societies have for other cultures that they don't understand. It also illustrates the infinite powers of human desires with outstanding simplicity and genuine sensibilities.Without a doubt this movie represents the highest point of Phillip Noyce's career and one of the must see features of this young century.  "},{"Title":"A profound, moving tale about aboriginal displacement","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A profound, moving tale about aboriginal displacement from the man who brought you The Saint and The Bone Collector. Yes, really!In the 1930s, in an attempt to get a grip on the Aboriginal 'problem', the Australian government developed a policy of removing Aboriginal children from their families and training them to work in domestic service in white households. The policy tore families apart and created a gulf between white and black Australians that remain to this day. Rabbit-Proof Fence concentrates on the extraordinary real-life case of three Aboriginal girls who escaped from the government camp and walked 1,500 miles home across the unforgiving Australian outback. For some film-goers, the incredible feat will almost be matched by the fact that this sensitive drama is the creation of Hollywood hack Philip Noyce. Audiences shouldn't be so surprised, however. Before he was churning out twaddle like Sliver, the New South Wales native was making intelligent Aboriginal dramas and it is clearly the Phillip Noyce who made Backroads rather than Clear And Present Danger who is at the helm here.Noyce is not the only one doing an excellent job, either. The performances from the abductees are sterling, proving that Noyce's lengthy scouring of Aboriginal camps for his cast-members was worthwhile. Branagh is also excellent as Neville, the creator of the resettlement plan, playing his character as the well-intentioned and woefully misguided man he was, rather than an arch-racist. Hats should also be tipped to cinematographer Chris Doyle (best known for his work with Wong Kar-Wai, shooting such films as In The Mood For Love) and composer Peter Gabriel, the later exhibiting form he hasn't shown since the late 80s. As good as Rabbit-Proof Fence is, you get the impression that Noyce was hoping to capture something truly epic here. That he hasn't isn't for lack of trying, however. And while the film can't rival the sweep of, say, David Lean, it deserves an immense amount of credit for dragging Aboriginal issues back into the open - rightly pointing out that while this is a problem of Britain's making, Australia's failure to right this wrong is equally shameful. Verdict  Noyce's film doesn't hit the heights you imagine he was aiming for, but it remains an important picture about a long neglected subject. And with over 10,000 Aboriginal children being taken into care by the Australian government each year, the film is far more pertinent than it really ought to be.   "},{"Title":"An exceptional movie","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The slightly odd title might be off-putting but hides a gem. It's a simple enough story based on real people and events - three young aboriginal girls are forcibly removed from their mother by the Australian state, but manage to escape and find their way home - but it is told in such a moving and understated way that it hits hard and deep. It helps if you have been to the Australian deserts but the landscape is shot beautifully. The acting from all concerned is brilliant, relying less on words and more on movement, setting, expression and gesture.The story connects at many levels - the pain of separation, the yearning for home, the traps of culture and ideology, the power of the state, colonialism, faith, survival...The most shocking realisation is that this appalling policy of forced integration continued until 1970! Just when you had thought 'it all happened in Victorian times' Noyce shows us footage of two of the girls as they are now, elderly ladies (one has since died). The audience stayed in their seats until the last credit, mesmerised by the haunting music that accompanies the film. Among all the dross it's good to know there are still movies worth going out for. "},{"Title":"Emotional point of reference","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was very moved by this movie. Being a mother myself, I found the scene where the children are removed from their mother gut-wrenching. There IS a difference between Molly's actual experience and that portrayed in the movie, but the film is meant to be representative of the stolen experience, and the emotions at play. If this movie does nothing else, it gives people a point of reference for Aboriginal suffering and a sense of how powerless they must have felt during this period in Australia's history.It is certainly a testament to the connection of parents to children and, more particularly, of mothers to daughters. Love the Peter Gabriel soundtrack too, some of his best work.  "}{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was a fantastic movie about a time in Australian history that I had never heard of. The 3 main girls in the film did an incredible job for their first acting experience. They were completely believable as Molly, Gracie, and Daisy. I was wrapped up completely in their saga and still continue to think about it a day after watching it. Phillip Noyce does an excellent job with the casting, the directing and the layout of each scene. It is an unforgettable story that everyone should see to know what happened to the Aborigines during this time period. I am inspired now to read the book this was based off of so that I can get more understanding of what happened to these families. It is not just a saga of 3 little girls trying to make it home and running from the government. It shows the history of the government's decision to forcibly remove all half-caste children from their rightful homes. Definitely not a story to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Inspiring and hopeful","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Though the formula of this story ( an epic quest for home) may be familiar, the real-life circumstances portrayed in the film set it apart. Rabbit Proof Fence is based on the true story of aboriginal children in Australia forcibly removed from their families to be trained as domestic workers for white settlers. One young girl defies the attempts of the training camp to subdue and Christianize her, and leads her sister and a cousin on an escape down the 1,500 miles fence her mother told her would lead home.The challenges facing the girls are daunting and their determination is inspiring. This film made me ask myself what I loved that deeply and how hard I would struggle for my authentic identity.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this excellent movie. It reminded me of some similar film which I saw on TV when I was a child. Unfortunately I don't know more about it than this (uncertain features with ? in brackets)Children (white or aborigin?) in the Australian outback separated from parents who work in some camp/prison (location is fenced in). When they tried to come in they were shot at. In the outback they were adopted by Aborigines. One of the children stole a holy figure/stone (from Ayers Rock?). An aborigne brought this figure back and began suicide (by dripping water on his head?)....I only know it was definitely not Walkabout (with Jenny Agutter, 1971) but it must have been broadcast in the mid/late 70ies or early 80ies. Unfortunately I do not remember more about the story, nor if it was BW or colour, nor if it was a whole movie or a TV series.Any hints would be appreciated. "},{"Title":"Perception proof people.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the problems with Christian Zeal is its tendency to believe that everyone should think like `they' do, whether others want to, need to, or not.  Those viewed as less `civilized,' therefore, in European terms, must be converted, one way or another, where destroying the native culture was considered both necessary and desirable.  It's an odd point of view, shamefully illustrated in this excellent film, but hardly limited to the period in question.  Then, children may have been `forcibly' removed from their native culture to be raised as glorified slaves; now, they are merely seduced by global consumerism and `McCulture' to become drudges to our fads and trends.  Indeed, they had a hard time finding three aboriginal children to play the leads in this tale because, by now, they mostly showed up for casting, looking, behaving and thinking, like any other kids from Sidney or Chicago.  That is the real tragedy of this film, not just what happened before.The film makes it seem that the policy of the Australian government in the 1930s, of virtually `kidnaping' the children of aboriginals if they could be identified as half-castes, and then training them to be servants of the Europeans, was both racist and morally reprehensible.  But while no one today would argue that it wasn't, the film makes it seem that we have outgrown that kind of thing, when in fact we have not.  We are `still' trying to destroy what is unique about other cultures, it's just that we have replaced Christian Zeal with mass consumerism.  `Buying' things, and identifying with movie stars and sports heroes, has replaced the mythologies of the past, reducing all cultures to a stupefying blandness in which being someone means being just like everyone else.Molly didn't go along with the crowd, but she is portrayed as an exception and not an example.  Therefore, we can agree that her exception was heroic, without learning anything from her example.  What `she' did was inspiring, but what does it mean to us?  The film lets us watch passively and vicariously, without any involvement from us.  But if we don't just dismiss her as an exception, her story is as much about us as it was about her.  We `too' have the brainwashers that seek to rob us of our culture and make of us servants, only now they are we, and the true culture we have to return to is rejected in preference to the fake.  There is a lesson to be learned from Molly's example, but few will find it in this film, because what ultimately must change are the values of the people (we), not the culture (they). "},{"Title":"Un-moving film about a moving story.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After reading the story behind this movie, I was expecting the film to be just as moving, and I think I also expected it to be ultimately uplifting.However, I found this tale of three little girls forcibly removed from their mothers to be rather long and boring. There were some quite sad moments at the beginning, but I think the film could have been made much more 'heart-rending', and thus more appealing to me personally.After they escaped from their 'prison-camp', all they did was walk. And walk. And walk. Hmm. Not much of a story there.Kenneth Brannagh's character came across as rather stupid and misguided rather than the evil, Nazi-like character I was expecting.I suppose many would say that it was to this film's credit that the story was not overdramatised, and was probably ultimately more realistic. But I would argue that the story was too weak to be made into a decent movie without it. "},{"Title":"Africa, the Americas, South East Asia, Australia, the entire globe","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story about Molly, Daisy, and Gracia speak for the infinite attempts to dehumanise indigenous people around the globe.  Places such as Africa, the Americas, South East Asia, Australia and other places had and somehow still do experience the unfair treatment by us Europeans (of both the old and the new world alike).  We in the dominant society still do not want to respect different ways of thinking, disregard social structures that are different than ours, corrupt lifestyles that are considered incompatible to our materialistic goals, and radically alter the natural equilibrium that is the result of eons of the d/evolutionary equilibrium.  We think of us as the supreme people, whom everyone should look up to, but this movie acts like a mirror opening up the dark sides of us as a culture and society, revealing the deep moral inconsistencies and the real character of ourselves.  Especially in the wake of the new global crises, both socially and ecologically, this is a movie worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"A shameful slice of Australian history...given three faces","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  `Rabbit-Proof Fence' is a film that puts a face - or rather, three faces - on the Stolen Generation.  Anyone who isn't moved by it is either incredibly cynical, or masking guilt with defensiveness.  Which is a wasted effort - this film, amazingly, for one so politically charged, places no blame.It's the story of 14-year-old Molly Craig, called a 'half-caste' because her father was a white man and her mother is Aboriginal.  Her little sister Daisy and cousin Gracie are also half-castes.  The year is 1931, and they live a semi-tribal existence in Jigalong, Western Australia, surviving on government rations and food they hunt for themselves.  Jigolong falls immediately on one side of a `rabbit-proof fence', which stretched from the bottom to the top of Australia.  It keeps the rabbit plague on one side, and the farmland on the other.But their days in Jigalong are numbered - they have captured the attention of A O Neville (Kenneth Branagh), a public servant called the `Protector of Aborigines', whom the government has made the legal guardian of every Aborigine in WA.  He approves their marriages, and can remove their kids.The girls are taken from their mothers on ration day.  The scene where Molly and her mother fight with every ounce of their strength against two grown men is stark and gut wrenching.  The girls are then taken 1500 miles across WA in a cage on a train, and on the back of a truck to the Moore Creek Native Settlement, where half-caste children go to be trained as domestic servants for white people.Moore Creek is close to a concentration camp - the children are all identically dressed, and sleep in a room full of camp beds with a bucket in the corner.  They're fed food they're not used to and are forbidden to use their native languages.  Those with fairer skins are judged to be superior, and are sent away to school.  And if anyone escapes, they are always caught by Moodoo, the 'black tracker' (played with silent, excruciating pathos by David Gulpilil) and severely punished and made an example of upon their arrival back the camp.  However, Moodoo is just as much a prisoner as the children are, and stays around doing the dirty work only to be near his own daughter, who is also at the camp.But Molly refuses to stay - she gathers up the other two girls and they run for it during a storm, which will cover their tracks and slow the tracker down.  Due to Molly's skill at surviving in the bush, they stay ahead of him for the rest of the film by luck and pure cunning.   They learn the location of the rabbit proof fence from a farmer's wife who gives them clothes and food, and stay ahead of the tracker.  But it's soon obvious that the tracker doesn't want to find them.Molly has a lot of put up with on her journey - the doubts of the other two girls, the threat of the tracker finding them, and the journey across the the roughest terrain on earth.  But the courage of her conviction is never shaken - especially so after meeting a young domestic servant, who is also a half-caste and also from Moore Creek called Mavis (played by Deborah Mailman).  Mavis takes them in for the night and gives them food, but it becomes obvious that her removal and her 'training' have made her not just a servant, but a virtual sex slave to her male employer.`Rabbit-Proof Fence' left me in awe - of Molly's strength and endurance, and of how misguided the Australian government was back then (and still is, to a degree).  Everlyn Sampi's performance as Molly is incredible and instinctive, especially for an actor with no previous experience in film. Kenneth Branagh is also a revelation as Mr Neville, and manages to play him as a sympathetic character - not evil, just misguided and ignorant, more a product of racist evil than a perpetrator of it.  And David Gulpilil conveys so much emotion as Moodoo, without having to say a word.The ending is essentially a happy one, but doesn't whitewash over what kept happening until 1971.  We can only hope that films like this will make it real for Australians, as well as being a unique example of Australian cinema, which is richly deserves. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking stuff... very well made","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the many things film does, is giving us firsthand information on real life events. When we see a film based on historical facts done well, it moves us stronger than any government report or history book ever could, because we feel that it really did happen.In 2001 director Phillip Noyce (Dead Calm, The Quiet American) went back to his native country of Australia to tell the story of another people. Based on the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Molly's daughter Doris Pilkington it is the true story of half-caste Aborigine children who in the 1930's were forcibly removed from their families so they could be advanced to white status. This removal was official government business under the supervision of Chief Protector of the Aborigine Populace Mr. Neville (Kenneth Branagh) who actually thought he was doing a good thing. He thought he could provide them with an adequate white education while at the same time secure them from attacks of full blood Aborigines. The movie does not judge him in too obvious a way.As we enter the Australian outback we get to know the Aborigine community of Jigalong and three half- caste children Molly, who is 14 years old, her sister Daisy, who is 8 and their cousin, 10-year old Gracie. Soon they are transported to the orphanage of Moore River, 1200 miles from Jigalong, where they have to learn the traditions of a normal white Christian child. But Molly, as the most independent of the three, soon realizes that have to escape if they ever want to see their family again. They flee and as a way to return home they head towards the rabbit-proof fence, which stretches north-south across nearly all of the Australian continent, while being constantly pursued by a tracker.Noyce tells this story in a simple and compact narrative. We experience the journey mostly through the eyes of the three main actresses, although the film occasionally cuts away to present us to Mr. Neville's Point of View. Combined with the fascinating, harsh cinematography by Christopher Doyle and the tribal inspired music by Peter Gabriel, the journey unfolds into a moving human drama.A lot of dynamic comes from the girls, all of them untrained actors, whose powerful performances are more the result of perfect casting and individual attitude than real acting. Their eyes convey all of the emotions, perfect filmmaking does the rest. The final images in Rabbit-Proof Fence are among the most harrowing in recent cinema. They bridge a gap between fiction and reality as the viewer suddenly realizes that the journey he just experienced was real and that the heartbreak of these people does not end with the credits.  "},{"Title":"Inspirational - but has anyone else done the math..?","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film, justly noted for all its positive features (socio-cultural implications, score, cinematography, cast, etc.), is an overall worthwhile ninety minutes.  But in the end, I had trouble accepting one of the films main premises; that being the fact that three young girls traveled anywhere from 1200 to 1500 miles (figures seem to transpose here and there) in about nine weeks time.  Now, even if it's only 1200 miles, and in fact took ten weeks to accomplish, this still works out to over seventeen miles a day; every day, ten weeks running.  Wow.  Especially when you consider one of the girls was only eight, or was periodically carried by the fourteen-tear-old, that's a feat difficult to fathom.  Talk about your walkabouts..  I am willing to admit that certain cultures may possess remarkable resources under such desperate circumstances - but certain physics are hard to ignore.Such contentions aside, however, be sure to see the film for all those positive features noted above - they easily outweigh this presumed implausibility.     "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There is a flaw in the film in that it looks so amazing. Every scene is so gorgeous that it detracts from the drama. Presumably the superb look is meant to contrast with the human story but it almost overwhelms it. The story is simple and could have done with a plainer look.That said the story comes alive because of the acting. The children who play Molly, Daisy and Gracie are excellent, quite natural and subdued. Their heroic trek back home is made all the more extraordinary by them being ordinary, not plaster saints. The scene where they are removed from their mother is very disturbing. As the tracker Moodoo, David Gulpilil is dignified and solid. His presence in the film has a lot of resonances from the history of Australia and the history of Australian cinema. In a small but telling role Kenneth Branagh is very effective. His A. O. Neville is a man doing his duty, a man of his time yet also as human as the three girls.There is a great moment in the film where the girls first touch the fence and 1500 miles away their mother is also touching the fence. Deeply moving. The image of the fence as as something that can unite but something that also divides sums up the ambiguity of the idea of re-settlement of mixed race children. A very good film, quietly gripping with an ending to moisten the dryest of eyes.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful and simple film","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The visuals of this film are impressive, but so is the basic simplicity of the little Aborigine children. They aren't really acting, because they don't really have to act. They just are telling the story. I read one of the comments on this page that said the story is fictitious in some aspects. And perhaps it is. But it is beautiful to watch, fictitious or otherwise. I liked it a lot.9/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing... (Slight spoilers)","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was absolutely amazing.  It was incredibly sickening how these aboriginal families were torn apart to clean out the mixed bloods or half-castes.  This even continued until 1970.  At the end of the film I needed to know when this horrible law was repealed and was sickened to find out it was so recently.  Didn't these people see they were no better than the Nazis?  How could they have been so oblivious that they were doing ethnic cleansing?  The worst part was that even though the girls escaped, there was no repreive.  Even the one who had wed and had children was taken back.  They made a 1500 mile trip on foot and were taken right back into captivity.  I honestly don't think we even pull that garbage with escaped animals.Another part that was so sick, was the one girl they stayed with on the farm.  Here was a girl who had gone through the whitening education and was now a domestic servant.  But what was she really?  A slave.  She wasn't brought into society, but was given to a sick middle age man to rape.  You could see her fear, but what could she do?  Nothing.  She wasn't whitened as much as the system claimed.  Again, this film was amazing.  It was really great to see the two women at the end.  It gave a final understanding of their absolute strength.Some people have said this film is dull and is too focused on the girls.  Yes, but then it is their story.  Don't watch this is you only like stupid comedies or high action films.  This film is for those with a brain and are strongly moved by such subjects. "},{"Title":"Subtle storytelling","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A great, subtle telling of a true story of 3 young girls walking the thousands of kilometres back home from the institution they were sent to under the then government policy.The performances of the young lead actors is excellent, especially Everlyn Sampi as Molly & Tianna Sansbury as Daisy.  David Gulpilil as usual was also very good, an actor whose actions & not words tell the story.A good return to form for Philip Noyce 7/10. "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Heartfelt Aussie drama (based on a true story) depicting the treatment of Aboriginal children in the 1930s. Harrowing in it's way, also rather a triumph of the human spirit. Great acting from the trio of young girls, and solid directing from Aussie born Philip Noyce (Dead Calm, Clear and Present Danger). Have to give her a solid 4, but must add that it's a tear-jerker, and not for all tastes.  "},{"Title":"Amazing scenery.","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  (spoilers)Frankly I think this movie shoulda been longer.  It manages to capture our hearts, but it only captures part of the story.  It ends on a happy note, but doesn't tell us in pictures what the story tells us at the end in words.  That They were caught again, and escaped and walked all the way back again.It is enjoyable and the 40 minute making of is certainly a plus on the dvd.The music was pretty good.  If you want to see some really good scenery of Austrailia  then this is up your alley.8/10Quality 9/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"The story is decisive, not the film","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was exactly like I expected it to be. Slightly epic, never boring, well (or at least solidly) acted, not particularly humorous yet telling a not quite light chapter of history. From the cinematic point of view, Rabbit-Proof Fence is not a masterpiece. I guess this is the reason why most of the external comments I read where discussing the historic topic rather than the film.The three young actresses playing Molly, Daisy and Gracie (especially Molly) are either very talented or extremely well-chosen. When we see Molly's face, we seem to know immediately what she is thinking. Also the use of David Gulpilil in an Aborigine film can never be wrong. Again, he creates a grand but fearful atmosphere only by showing us his face. Also Kenneth Branagh does a good job, though I do not fully understand why he got so much make-up (which, of course, is not his fault, I guess).Some pictures are extremely touching and perfectly filmed. That's all worth saying. Anyway, this film is one that had to be made (director Phillip Noyce) and thus lives from its fascinating true story.A typical candidate for a rating of 6 points out of 10. "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I came across this on a new release list and the title intrigued me enough to check out the release notes. As described on the DVD jacket, this movie is part adventure and part social message.  After spotting this unexpectedly at the local Blockbuster, I decided to take a look. The movie may not meet the excitement quotient that many viewers demand, but I enjoyed the movie and recommend it. The plot and underlying story are disturbing, but getting this piece of history out is important. If you have an interest in history, this is definitely worth consideration. "},{"Title":"Full of life .","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is simply made with simple basic values of human nature and emotion. We all love the comic book explosive Hollywood blockbuster but this is the kind of flik that draws you in emotionally. It's hard not to feel for Molly and her family as we trek through the Australian Outback with her. Sometimes we forget that movies can work without all the billion dollar FX and ego driven super-celeb stars. Very well directed and believably acted by all.  "},{"Title":"Too much heavy-handed sentimentalism","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this film way too sentimental. No-one could under-value the seriousness of the issues it tackles, but why did the directors have to lay on the sentiment so thickly? I had the impression they were resorting to tug-at-the-heartstrings stuff because they were afraid the film wouldn't stand up without it. But why? It was an interesting film and very beautifully shot, without needing to drown its viewers in a sea of yucky sentimentalism.In fact, anyone who has seen Walkabout with Jenny Agutter will agree that this film is nowhere near as good. Many of the same issues, ie. the basic incomprehension that exists between the Aborigine and the White Man, are also presented in Walkabout but in a far subtler and more disturbing way.It was excellent and very respectful that they used the same actor (David Gumpilil) who played the young aborigine in Walkabout, to be the tracker in R.P.F. - looking much older now of course.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, Exceptional","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was far better than the documentary that I was led to believe I would see.  It is one of the best movies from 2002, in my opinion.  It strikes me as a cross between Walkabout (for obvious reasons) and The Color Purple (the emotional bond between the children, the painful depiction of being torn from their loved ones) and any number of movies about Nazis planning the Holocaust (Kenneth Branagh nails his part down with a cold, condescending but scarily earnest protector who sincerely believes he is doing the best for the Aborigines by tearing apart their families and trying to make the Aborigine race vanish through intermarriage with whites). That having been said, this is an uplifting story, with exceptional cinematography and music (by Peter Gabriel) and direction by Phillip Noyce, but even more exceptional performances by the three young girls. None had ever acted before.  They were picked from thousands of Aboriginal girls who tried out.   Also, please note that David Gullipil (sp?), the teenage Aborigine walkabout in the early 1970s Walkabout, was given a key role as the tracker of the girls.If you get the DVD version, please see the making of the movie special.  It is worthwhile viewing on its own.  You get to know those three little girls so much better, and you get a terrific sense of genuine humanity from director-producer Phillip Noyce. "}{"Title":"Powerful True Story Serves as Nice Comeback for Noyce","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Engaging true tale of government sponsored kidnapping of half-caste children (one white, one aboriginal parent) in 1930's Australia hits all the notes just right.  The three young girls in the lead roles are naturals and evoke the greatest of sympathy from the audience as they escape their capture and follow a desolate trail back home using the rabbit-proof fence (the longest fence in the world designed to control the rabbit plague) as their guide.  Director Noyce hasn't been this accomplished and astute since 1989's Dead Calm.  After playing around in Hollywood directing capable Jack Ryan adventures and debacles like Sliver and The Saint, Noyce delivers a simple and compelling comeback vehicle with no frills attached.  There's also a nice music score from Peter Gabriel that makes great use of aboriginal sounds and rhythms.For equally compelling Australian based cinema with similar themes, I further recommend Roeg's Walkabout and Bruce Beresford's underrated Paradise Road. "},{"Title":"A girl ten feet tall","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  With out a doubt, this will be one of the most moving, heart wrenching foreign films, based on a true story, that you will ever see.Everly Sampi (Molly), Tianna Sansbury (little sister Daisy) and Laura Monaghan (friend Gracie) are simply splendid, just simply splendid, as the escapees from the children's camp.David Gulpilil, without a single word, speaks volumes as the ruthless and relentless 'tracker', who will leave you wondering whether or not his heart is really in the hunt.Lastly Kenneth Branagh, who portrayed the ultimate hero in the A&E production of 'Shackleton' and the pompous, cowardly wizard in 'Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets', plays the ultimate villain here. Splendid.   Rabbit-Proof Fence will trek you across a heretofore unknown desert wilderness, and then into the 'cool' oasis of truth, revealed, in that 'world down under'.  "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A well-made film. I can't fault the acting (Kenneth Branagh is good), the child actors are remarkable, the cinematography is superb, and yet, it wasn't enough to make for a great film. The plot, which is based on a true story, is completely linear and unembellished, shown almost as a documentary. It's a sad chapter in Australian history, one that I'm sure has precedents all over the world, including North America, certainly not a new story. But it just didn't move me. Perhaps would make an engaging history lesson for kids and teens.  "},{"Title":"On Par with 'Anne Frank Remembered'","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Near the end of the 1995 documentary, Anne Frank Remembered, there's a two-second clip of Anne Frank--1943, '44, something like that, six months or so before she and her family went into hiding. A wedding was being filmed by someone with an early home movie camera. After taking some shots of the bride and groom in the street, the camera pans up to get a shot of some  spectators looking down from the balcony of their apartment at the wedding party below.  There is a young girl leaning over the railing of the balcony; we barely get a glimpse of her. She quickly turns her head and goes back into the apartment. They slow the film down and play it back. And it's Anne Frank.  Motion picture footage of Anne Frank. The real person.That was the most powerful and emotionally profound moment I've experienced watching a film. I totally lost it when they showed that two-second clip of Anne Frank. It cut me half. There was no denying that what I had just seen in the previous 100 minutes of the documentary was real. It hit me so hard I couldn't talk about it for weeks afterwards. And I can still get choked up trying to talk about.Rabbit-Proof Fence has a moment like that. For me, not as powerful as that moment of seeing Anne Frank, but for some people it will be. And if for nothing else but that moment, that possibility, I have to recommend this film.  Deeply moving.Entertaining and enlightening. "},{"Title":"well done on many levels","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  the australian government took kids of mixed race away from their family and put them in orphanages.. until *1970*. 1970! unbelievable. this film could have been done in a really cheesy disney way with awful swells of music.instead it was handled with compassion to all sides and didn't make huge moral generalizations. despite the grim story, the gorgeous panoramic shots of the desert and tundra really made me want to go to australia. "},{"Title":"Exquisite simplicity","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are three things that resonate with you long after you have seen the film 1) the strength of those children, 2) the panoramic cinematography and 3) the fact that the vile practice of kidnapping half-castes was acceptable until 1970.  The performances of the children, especially Everlyn Sampi, are mindstaggering in their sheer genuineness.  Neither had ever acted before, and Sampi had never even seen a film.  Philip Noyce draws a powerful picture with a government executor, Mr. Neville (played wonderfully by Kenneth Branagh) who truly believes that the removal of the children is a necessity in order to dissolve the race.  But is is the children's journey that draws you in, the beauy of who they are and what they undertook a 2000+ mile walk just to get back to Mom.  It is worth the admission alone to see young Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) crumple at one point after walking for days and just say, I'm tired and have Molly  (Sampi) pick her up and continue going.      "},{"Title":"Closest Representation...!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is as close to a visualization of Eugenics as anyone can make in a movie (next to movies about the Holocaust). As a true representation (human form = ME) of what this type of ignorant thinking can produce. This also produces cruelty, extreme harm to those it's suppose to protect and break families. I saw this movie, but as I got up at the end, people were crying along with me. But I don't think they fully understood the implications of this ignorant type of thinking can do. To just excuse it as just being a British ideal it's the most disgusting to me. It has happened here in USA and the Spanish did longer than anyone. I know because Iam living proof of this. By the way...Iam dedication my life so this do not happen again and trying to fix this 500 year screwed-up legacy the Spanish left behind. Even if it is one human at a time.I praise Molly Craig, sister and her friend for not only surviving the desert but also for striving for a better life for their children and the future of the Aborigine people. Although I respect Kenneth Brannagh, his character was creepy to me because he thought he was right. Not knowing the difference between your opinion and other people's opinion & respecting it, it's the worse crime of all. Especially when you are hurting people. "},{"Title":"Three young Australian aboriginal girls escape for home.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is an excellent film set in 1931 Australia. The film is about three aboriginal girls who were forceably taken from their homes to be trained as domestic staff for good Australian families. Shortly after they are interned they escape and set off on a 1200 mile trek by foot across the Outback of Western Australia to get back home.  The girls follow the Rabit Proof Fence in to navigate across the barren countryside.  Kenneth Brannagh plays a bureaucrat that serves his country without question.  He has a mandate to cleanse Australia of half breeds by taking the children from their aboriginal parents.  The film represents a slice of Australian history that is not a proud moment for the country.  "},{"Title":"A fine film that doesn't quite fulfill its potential","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit Proof Fence is a movie enhanced by Peter Gabriel's excellent soundtrack and several fine acting performances, but it seems that it could have been better.  Worth seeing, though perhaps a bit critically overrated. "},{"Title":"Desperation Seems To Make People Do Things They Wouldn't Normally Do","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie today, I received a welcome surprise.The movie turned into a pull-at-your-heart-strings sort of story as the three main characters, Molly (Everlyn Sampi), Daisy (Tianna Sansbury) and Gracie (Laura Monaghan) are plucked from their home and family and placed in a school to make them fit for a 'white' society. At this particular time in Australian history,  white society  didn't particularly like the fact that the half-caste children were living among the natives. They wanted them to live in white society where they thought they would be better off.But when Molly decided to run away from this special school and take her two younger sisters with her and try to make their way back home, their plight across the 1,500 miles of  Australian desert is a very difficult one. It's amazing how her desperation made her bravely face such a task.I thoroughly enjoyed the performances of the three girls, but specifically Everlyn Sampi's performance.  I truly hope these three don't disappear after this movie's tenure is over. I would love to see them in other movies. "}{"Title":"Emotionally uplifting and profoundly moving","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Its a true shame that more people are not rushing out to witness the film. It is brilliant beyond all humanistic expressions.  The performances by the three leads is devastating and natural.  They bring to the film such natural grace and carry great weight upon their shoulders.  Kenneth Branaugh is remarkable.  Its unusual for such big actors to take on such despicable characters in fear of being associated with the portrayle.  However, he bravly sidesteps this and is earnst and terrifying.  If you havn't seen this film, run out and do so.  It's touching and moving in all the right places and you'll never feel the same again about your own lives. "},{"Title":"Australian version of racism.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit-Proof Fence is a well cast oppression movie that makes its points clearly about white imposition of their nasty desires, culture, methods and values on other races. The only aspect of the film that would engender a vacation to Australia is how likeable the main characters are.I have an oppressive job and didn't want to watch an oppression movie on a holiday weekend. I planned on switching to another movie if I couldn't stand it but then had no trouble staying with this one. Three girls running away from boarding school prison do not hunt their food although their mother back home does. Even though raised in the outback they are dependent while escaping on offerings of bread from others. The traditional ways they know and prefer have already been co-opted. The home they long for looks like a trading post in the dust with a fence running alongside it. They make a mistake that saves them.The former seminarian watching with me commented afterwards that at least the missionaries aren't blamed for Everything which brings up a point this is a PG rated adult-theme movie that is likely to challenge its biggest potential audience, the churchgoers. The best point of all is that the girls don't care about the (comparatively) big buildings and chance for lighter skinned children. They just want to be with the people who love them.It is so simple it doesn't seem like much of a movie, just three girls journeying, evading capture, but in the simplicity is beauty. You think, This isn't going to fly the way the world is now. Most of us work the hell-jobs hell-schools trained us for. Two of the escapees are introduced at the end and they look like they are doing just fine, thank you, in spite of adversity. So maybe there are ways other than the work grind. On the other hand the movie didn't go into what their day to day lives look like. Like it or not it is probably all attitude no matter what your circumstances are. Their attitudes are pretty good.   "},{"Title":"Astute choices make film work","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  some plot details revealed belowThe storyline to RABBIT PROOF FENCE is quiet simple.  The government takes three girls - half aboriginal, half white - away from their mother to train them to become domestic servants.  The oldest of the three decides to escape back home while taking the other two with her.This film succeeds due to the astute choices of the director, Phillip Noyce. The goal of most of his camera and lens choices is to help us understand what the oldest girl, Molly, is thinking.  Usually, a combination of hand held cameras and mise-en-scene is used to achieve this goal.The director also seems inspired by David Lean's LAWRENCE OF ARABIA.  One example is a scene which starts with a hand held camera walking toward the rising sun with no humans in the frame.  Then, one by one, the girls appear from the left of the camera silhouetted by the sunlit sky.  (The inclusion of the song The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo into the film seems to be Noyce's acknowledgement of LAWRENCE's influence.  It was this song which T.E. Lawrence sang to himself while travelling alone after his guide had been shot dead.)Speaking of music, Peter Gabriel's score was magnificent at heightening the mood of each scene without becoming intrusive.  He collaborated well with the musicians who frequent his Real World Studios to give the film a score that seemed to fit well with the landscapes and the thoughts of the indigenous people.My only criticism is that I never really thought that things would not turn out all right.  I was confident that Molly knew what she was doing, and that she would escape successfully.  Maybe this is due to Noyce's obvious choice in keeping the film from becoming maudlin or melodramatic - which is a good thing.  I'd rather watch a film low on suspense than one which tries to manipulate my emotions because it fears that it will lose my interest or approval. "},{"Title":"Another True Story bites the dust.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Please, please, please don't spend your very valuable time and money on this pathetic piece of total dross. Kenneth Brannagh is extremely wooden. I try to think back to GOOD films he's made and only `Much Ado About Nothing' comes to mind. (No wonder Emma ditched him). This is twice now he's attempted to tell a true story of incredible courage and suffering of normal/real people and twice he's failed dismally. (The other would be the legend of the hero - Sir Ernest Shackleton - one of the most incredible explorers/leaders ever to have lived). Not only did he fail but he didn't do justice to what these people went through. The character (British upper class) he's trying to be in this film has more venom in a little finger than Ken could muster in a lifetime and what really annoyed me was the kids. It wasn't' their acting as they did as good a job as any kids - whether western born or tribes people. What annoyed me as they had perfect teeth, perfect skin and were extremely attractive. If I don't shower for two days I smell and look terrible. These amazing kids managed to look great - right to the bitter end after walking through rough terrain and desert with no food/water except what they could scrounge for 9 WEEKS. Way to go Brannagh and Co! Yet another extremely poorly told story of human endurance and suffering and what it REALLY means to experience devastation and loss - no wonder the world is in such a mess. PLEASE treat us viewers (you know, the people who enable your salary to be paid) with a bit more respect - give us a film with some meat on the bone. One more thing - the sound track sucks and I'm a Peter Gabriel fan!    "},{"Title":"A RESOUNDING HURRAH FOR THE HUMAN SPIRIT!!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Its hard sometimes to think that we are part of the human race, especially when we encounter the most inhumane programs we have enforced on our fellow man. It makes you want to slink away into the jungle and mayhaps emerge on the other side and with any luck, all the bad things we have wrought, will have vanished! But, as docudrama's unfold we are again brought to the fore to witness yet another crime against each other. Rabbit-Proof Fence is such a docudrama, as we see the gov't of Australia take half white aboriginal children away from their mothers arms and send them off to schools to be taught to be domestics and to be wed with other breeds to cull out the aborigine blood in three generations. The great men who thought this up would have fit in with Hitler like a glove.  And to think that this program did not end until 1970s is beyond belief. And the present government of Australia does not offer any condolences for the misery and hardships bestowed on these native's. The people of this offensive program were and are referred to as 'The Stolen Generation's. Molly and Gracie are sisters and one day they are snatched away from their mother by the police like animals and along with their cousin Gracie. They are taken hundreds of miles away to be trained as domestics, and to enter a breeding program to retrieve all the white genes and breed the aboriginal gene's out. Kenneth Branagh is Dr. Neville and in charge of the program and you will not like him very much. All the children at the camp call him Dr. Devil. The girls escape and trek some 1300-1500 miles back to their ancestral village, their ages are 14, 8, and 10. Molly remembers someone saying that the rabbit fence at their home runs the from coast to coast and they head for the outback in hopes of finding that fence. They meet some people along the way who are nice to them and head them to the fence. There is a hunt for them and no one can imagine how they have made it 600 miles away, but they cannot catch them. Every trap they set the girls get away. Molly's mother hears of her daughter journey and she and the grandmother set up a vigilance at the rabbit fence and meditate and sing a mantra and wait for the girls to return. There are some scary moments and the girls have much hardships. And you will be amazed at the acting skills of these three young women. At the end of the movie no one wanted to leave we all hung around the theater, really not knowing why, but, sadly,with heads averted everyone finally started leaving the theater and no one was talking... I gave this 9/10 "},{"Title":"Quietly moving and surprisingly powerful - probably Phillip Noyce's best film","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Aussie expat Phillip Noyce's return home after an honourable Hollywood run that included the intelligent but flawed The Saint, Patriot Games and the very underrated The Bone Collector, this powerful and quietly entrancing melodrama probably only got made through the director's clout - and thank God it did, since Noyce has wrought out of the harrowing true story at its heart what is probably his best film. Set in 1930s Australia, it tells of three half-caste Aboriginal children (stunning newcomers Sampi, Sansbury and Monaghan) forcibly taken from their family in the Australian outback to be educated the Western way to ensure that in a few generations Aboriginal blood will have been bred out. The three girls escape the Dickensian colony-school they've been placed in to return home, on foot, over 1200 miles along the rabbit-proof fence that crossed Australia. With help from Wong Kar-Wai regular cinematographer Christopher Doyle's amazing camerawork (and a surprisingly strong score from Peter Gabriel), Noyce deftly sidesteps the politically- and socially-engaged traps of this kind of plot (not to mention the David-vs.-Goliath motif) to turn it simply into the enthralling, very moving tale of three children who just want to go home to their mothers and of the way they triumphed over impossible odds. Never simply exotic nor shamefully manipulative, the film quietly makes its point felt through pure cinematic means telling the story in a straight-forward manner to the best of the film-makers' ability. It's a lesson in simplicity and convincing proof that sometimes the simplest method can also be the strongest. I dare you not to be moved. "},{"Title":"A must-see for those of the anthropological persuasion...","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Just a great movie. Well presented, well acted, nicely photographed. A good true story, but not over dramatized or loaded down with the typical hollywood saccharine.  Highly recommended.  Take your Trent Lott sympathizer friends along.... "},{"Title":"Grown men DO cry! Watching this haunting film is proof.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  We are all allowed our different points of view, but you'd have to have either a heart of stone or be the type of person who thinks Steven Seagal movies are great to hate this one. This is a deeply moving true story about three young girls who are stolen from their mothers, sent to an orphanage and then escape. The lack of a Hollywood cast, apart from a subdued Kenneth Branagh, makes it all the more real. That this kind of thing (the abductions) happened over and over again for over 60 years in Australia makes it all the more shocking.The film is a deeply moving, haunting tribute to a dark period in Australian history. I wept buckets and left the film both uplifted and terribly distressed. It's beautifully filmed, the Western Australian wilderness rugged, vast and daunting. At the end of the film when they show the real characters as they are today, in their 80's, narrating about what happened afterward.A must see. Released in the theatres up against over-blown Hollywood trash, this is what movie-making is all about. And maybe Americans will learn more about Australia then they learn from Crocodile Hunter and Crocodile Dundee. ***** out out ***** "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Amid all the silly stuff that comes out at Christmas, this is outstanding. It would be outstanding in any season.If you're looking for a moving story about the importance of never giving up, this is it.  The story is shocking.  As an American who idealizes all things Aussie, it made me wonder whether racism may simply be endemic to human DNA and thus, we must always be on guard and aware of that tendency if we are ever to stamp it out.The children are terrific.  Branagh is a bit too over the top (as always), but since his is only a small part, it doesn't really matter.  It's the landscape, the journey, and the determination that make this movie such a wonderful experience.Ignore the curmudgeons and go see this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"The story of the Stolen Generation","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is not the story of Molly Craig, nor of her little sister and cousin who miraculously escaped the Australian government camp, but rather the story of the Stolen Generations. Those half-castes, as they were referred by, were mixed Australian white and Aboriginal. Masses of children upon children were ripped from their mothers' arms and taken away by the Australian government and put into these camps from the late 1800s up until the 1970s. Noyce succeeds in his direction of story and character assimilation to enthrall the audience enough to leave the cinema, go to bed, and still have the images running drumming on the conscience. The story itself is based on an autobiographical book about the quest of Molly, her sister and cousin, who managed to walk 1,000 miles back home from one end of Australia to another, just by following the Rabbit Proof Fence. The way Noyce has translated the story of this 3-month-long trek is through the developping of characters with every few steps they take. The use of the characters' points of defeat successfully turns a humble storyline into a discovery into the far-reaching situations of survival, which includes crossing the Gibson desert by foot.The three girls on screen, aged between 6 and 14, are indigenous actors and are incredibly impacting. Their success portraying this real life situation was due to the close relativity of the issue to their personal lives; their mothers' generation were of the last of the Stolen Generations.The start of the film's story would have been more emotionally captivating if there were personal stories revealed or unique facets of the aboriginal culture unveiled. The kidnapping of the three girls is too premature for the audience to get personal with other than watching a hostile and unfortunate scene.  The remaining length of the film does justice though, as the audience walks alongside the three little girls, developing a third-person relationship, feeling concerned about the cuts on their legs from walking, wanting to stop them as they speak to seedy strangers along the way,and wishing to aid them as an adult, in deciphering their constant recalculation of the direction toward Jigalong, their home.Kenneth Brannaugh as `Mr. Neville', was incorporated into the film's screenplay, as the character itself was not in the original book the film is based on, which was written by the daughter of one of the Aboriginal girls.  Mr. Neville served as a necessary evil into conveying the mind-blowing mindset of Australian racist duality at the time. While kidnapping the `half-caste' children from their mother and turning their lives into misery, the government honestly felt it was their responsibility to `take care' of these half-worthy children who were born innocently of `heathen' Aboriginies.The cinematography is vast and colorful and absorbs an Australia most have never seen on film. The music composed by Peter Gabriel is another triumph, as the strong cinematic tones blend in melodiously with the entrancing Aboriginal chants. Nicole Ballivian for Au-Cinema.com  "}{"Title":"Simple, but mind blowing","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  An old friend and I both male ended up in tears at the end of this piece of cinema.  I can't remember a better film of it's genre based on true events illuminating such an important and sensitive issue.  The cinematography, photography and score fit together beautifully to underpin this piece of cinema.  Ultimately the story speaks to the resilience and continued resistance of the Aborigines of Australia and the maintenance of culture and tradition amidst a backcloth of colonialism and miscegenation.  Words cannot speak to how powerful this film is and it should be nominated and rewarded in the Best Foreign Film category at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Screen Gravitas","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It seems that the Hollywood glamourisation that Phillip Noyce displayed in his Clancy-film adaptions has actually added to the vitality of this critically acclaimed film immensely. Director Noyce, who first ominously cast his tone shadow of the film Sliver and countless other Australian pieces, has displayed a cinematic vivacity in this film like few others, comparable to heavyweights such as David Lean and Cecil B.Demille. Noyce uses the Australian landscape, with its startling pastel colours as a fantastic backdrop to this 'dreamlike' tale.It would be an interesting side note if it turned out that Noyce actually studied at length early Australian bush paintings to envoke his vision for this film.The story is told as a modernised dreamtime tale. The three heroines, Molly, Daisy and Gracie, are like spiritual Aboriginal figures, although they are infact real people as the story itself is based on actual events. The period at hand, 1931, during the great depression, saw the evilest time in Australian history. Although it was never known as such, assimilation policy was in fact Australia's very own civil war. It was the cold and calculated segregation of an entire race and the slow plot to de-culturalise them and turn them into lower class white folk. It was esentially an invasion on their identity.Kenneth Branagh does extraodinary work here as an off-centre villian. He is not completely dehumanised, in a sense, as an audience, we actually become sad for his ignorance. Putting it bluntly 'How could such a smart man be so stupid'.Another quality aspect of the film is not only its reflection of all the characters and their distinctiveness, but their interaction with one another. They contrast quite significantly relationship wise, which in itself is just great proof of the brilliant acting in the film.The film is vivid but not obstructive. The visuals enthral but never explode, there is always an excellent delicate balance. It doesnt try to turn you into believers but just presents an extraodinarily tale brilliantly, the way true cinema should be.All in all, it seems like a distant black and white photograph, faded but still radiant, and although the faces are all happy, you cant help feel that you wish you could burn this past away.However, in the end this is a film which we should all watch, and be the wiser for it. "},{"Title":"Stunning, heart-breaking, engrossing, moving","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is an amazing true story, one of absolute horror yet is full of hope. The young actresses Noyce found to bring this story to the screen are perfect, talented and mature way beyond their young ages.  The soundtrack by Peter Gabriel is stunning as is the cinematography.It is a shame that this small film won't be embrassed by American audiences because it has so much to learn from.   "},{"Title":"Astonishing true story","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Powerful film about the true story of three Australian aboriginal children who are stolen from their families under the notorious resettlement policy. The story follows their kidnap from Jigalong camp, escape from the detention centre and journey back home along the 1500 mile rabbit proof fence.Everlyn Sampi is flawless in the role of Molly, the eldest of the three. David Gulpilill makes a dark presence in the character of Moodoo, the aboriginal tracker sent to find them. I thought it was particularly sinister to see him in a police uniform, in marked contrast to the other aborigine characters. Much of the film's tension comes from the delicate chess-like game played as Molly tries to hide and confuse her tracks while Moodoo follows them.The film is careful not to be too blunt and unsubtle. Branagh plays A.C Neville (Chief Protector of Aborigines) carefully showing that that although he was an outright brutal racist, he really believed what he was doing was right. The other white characters are mixed. Most are shown as human and helpful, some indifferent and one or two are just plain evil. "},{"Title":"a story that needed telling","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is outstanding, not for the quality of the acting or the script or even the cinematography.....but for the story itself. It is, one suspects, a difficult story for Australians to tell but the treatment of a shameful part of Australia's history is honest and sensitive.And the harsh nature of the tale is captured in the harshness and wonderful beauty of the Australian landscape....this is not a background to the story....it IS the story....a story of a unique people who are part of the land...but not yet part of the nationAgainst the troubling aspects of this narrative, it would have been easy to over write or even overact the role of A.C. Neville, the Superintendant of Aboriginal Affairs played by Kenneth Branagh. It is a tribute to the makers of the film that precisely the right balance was struck in this crucial role which mirrors the insensitive and patronising attitude of White Australia.It was a story that needed to be told....and it has been well told "},{"Title":"An Incredible Film","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Now, I had only seen a glimpse of a trailer and about three pictures of the movie before I saw it. Even so, I had faith in the story. I believed it looked excellent and let me tell you, I wasn't wrong. It was a fantastic film, with characters that one could really root for in the forms of the three girls, Molly, Gracie and Daisy.Superbly shot, the movie will provide endless discussion for anyone who sees it. In scenes such as the girls' kidnapping from their home in Jigalong, their courageous journey and one other scene I'm not going to mention in case I get kicked off, you will not be able to remain unemotional.A classic. See it at the movies with a friend or two and try not to get TOO emotional, as you might miss one of the more excellent scenes and you'll be kicking yourself until it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"Walkabout grows up","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Stunning cinematography and riveting performances by the three (non-professional) actresses playing the children are the salient features of this astonishing film. Phillip Noyce was obviously very homesick when he decided to make this movie. His love for his country of birth pours forth from every frame. At its heart this is a very simple tale, based on a true story of three Aboriginal girls, forcibly removed from their family because they had white fathers, who run away from the mission station in which they are incarcerated and who proceed to walk home across more than 1000 miles of desert.This is much more than a road movie, however. Noyce has walked an expert tightrope, able on the one hand as an Australian to portray his homeland and its people accurately, but at the same time have the expatriate's luxury of detachment, being able to undertake an analysis of the background (political and social) to this story, without being shrill or preachy. We see the facile racism of the white bureaucrats (tinged with grudging respect as the girls elude recapture), and the human reality of those who witnessed the inhumanities of the Stolen Generations first hand (either as victims or as perpetrators). Even the black tracker sent after the girls (great work by David Gulpilil) is conflicted - he wants to go home, but his duty is to hunt the fugitives down.Music and sound effects add to a remarkable cinematic experience. Heavy, crunching footfalls punctuate this film, setting the tempo, delivering suspense, marking time. This film will be a standard in Australian schools for years to come, and deserves a global audience as well. "},{"Title":"If you don't feel moved by this story, you need a heart-starter, defibrillator kit.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The sweeping vastness of Australia condenses into three lives in a poignant true drama, that in the end will make you cry for both sadness and joy.  Joy, for the righteous feelings of love for family and, the determination by young children to overcome the seemingly insurmountable distances and hardship of the Australian Outback.  Sadness because of the rampant racism that was the order of the day, cloaked in a veil of helping the indigenous peoples integrate with the general population, eventually becoming white three generations downstream.Kenneth Branagh is superb as the racist do-gooder, and brings self-righteous to new levels, as a true story unfolds that needs no metaphors to hit home. The rest of the cast, especially the three main character-children suspend the disbelief, and put you there inside the maelstrom that was Australia's policy of repugnant racism. And in the end, when one sees the pictures of the real people upon which this film was based, the gnawing pangs of man's inhumanity to man come slamming home in a profusion of emotions.  "},{"Title":"Not a true story.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was disappointed that the film makers thought they had to change the facts to make this movie. They have changed what was a story of the courage and determination of three little girls, into a political statement, that people are believing without question.Read the book, Molly's true story as written by her daughter. "},{"Title":"important, moving experience","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this is a film which all australians, and everyone else for that matter, should see. it powerfully shows us just what went on, shamefully, for decades in australia - that children of mixed (aboriginal/white) parentage were forcibly removed from their mothers and made to live without their traditions and languages in state run settlements. the film successfully shows the heartbreaking consequences of this policy, but also, importantly, the strength of spirit and determination some people show in the most difficult of circumstances. rabbit-proof fence is honest, beautiful and ultimately shows the utter pointlessness and stupidity of racist laws and racism in general. such a pity that our current government will not acknowledge this fact. "}{"Title":"A Great Aussie Film -","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Phillip Noyce has returned home with his groundbreaking Rabbit Proof Fence. A tragic true story revolving around Australia's dark and disturbing mid-20th Century law that aimed to integrate traditional Aboriginal Australians. In short, Aboriginal children were removed from their families and brought up and disciplined as 'White Australians'. This crime against humanity continued until the early 1970's, and to this day, the Australian Government refuses to acknowledge its occurrence. Today we refer to these children as the 'Stolen Generation'.Set mostly in outback Western Australia, Noyce captures the harsh desert climate, with buzzing flies, long shadows and very deep shades of red and orange. The opening scene introduces us to 13-year-old Molly - the hero of the story. Played magically by Evelyn Sampi, Molly's gift for understanding the barren nature of the Australian outback guides the audience through her journey. Molly, her sister and her cousin are torn from their Mother and home early on setting the emotional tone of the film.Kenneth Branagh brilliantly underplays his role as Government Official Neville, responsible for the integration of Aboriginal Australians. Throughout the course of the film we discover his sole aim is to do just that - without feeling or remorse. Neville is portrayed without family, giving us the understanding that he has no moral standing on family, and its importance.After spending a short time in the Christian Camp, Molly decides to escape and attempt the 2400 kilometre (1500 mile) trek home. The Rabbit Proof Fence, which runs from the north of Australia down to the southern Coast, becomes the symbol for hope, love, guidance and more obviously - distance. Molly's persistence, strength and courage are admirable and heroic, portrayed sincerely and honestly by Sampi.Philip Noyce has used his unique and brilliant visual style to recreate a sad and horrific aspect of Australia's cruel recent past. Peter Gabriel's distinct Australian sound enhances the film's emotional resonance. And Australia itself is portrayed as the cruel, isolated, yet beautiful backdrop to these incredible and almost unbelievable events.Rabbit Proof Fence is by no means a political attack on the Australian Government. Contrary to this, it emotionally reminds Australians, and the world of the nations dark historical past and the impact on the lives of one Aboriginal family. It does not speak on behalf of all of the Stolen Generation. Rabbit Proof Fence is not a documentary on Australia's history, but rather an important story attempting to reflect its history.This is definitely a rare and insightful Australian film.  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful & Personal","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have just returned from Australia where I saw the film.  I can honestly say that I have never cried so much at film before.I was fortunate enough to see a programme on Australian TV prior to seeing the film which showed a documentary charting Phillip Noyce's search for the right characters for the film & a behind the scenes look at the making of the film.To think that the Australian Government were taking away mixed race children from their black mothers as recent as just over 30 years ago is heart breaking & that as recently as 2 years ago, denied that it happened.The 3 young girls who played the children in the film were absolutely amazing.  Their expressions conveyed more than any words could.  We forgot that we were watching a film, we felt that we were transported back to 1931 & was actually witnessing the event first hand, such was Phillip Noyce's excellent direction of the film.I was pleased that Mr Noyce did not sentimentalize the story & showed it in its raw form.  After watching the film, we were both physically & mentally drained, such was the impact.I told Australian's that we met whilst on holiday there that they needed to see the film so that they would have a better understanding of exactly what the Aboriginal communities have had to deal with & maybe then they would have a better understanding of the anger that the community feels.  I would go as far to say that the Australian Government should look at showing the film to school children as a visual history lesson about an important part of their past.I look forward to seeing the film again when it opens in the UK.  I have already told friends about the film & I bought a couple of books on the Stolen Generations because of this film, such is its power.  "},{"Title":"Every Australian Should See This Film.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Australia's current PM John Howard has successfully divided the public on this very emotional and sensitive issue, to the point that neither side of the debate are really listening to what the other is saying. This film goes some way to rectifying that situation. It does not overtly express any particular stance on this issue but certainly reveals both sides of the story in a fair and honest manner.The movie itself has some very dramatic moments. The terror in the girls eyes as they are forcibly removed, their reunion with their mother and grandmother, the casual speech about 'breeding them out' is harrowing. I certainly walked away from this film with a better understanding of the oppression inflicted upon aborigines that continues to this day, but also the mentality of people who insist that no apology is required despite my disagreement with such a view.  "},{"Title":"Less than forceful film about three Australian Aboriginal girls stolen from their parents in 1931. 2 Flys Out Of Five","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Stolen Generations debate in Australia has been political dynamite for much of the 200 years Europeans have colonized Australia.         Australian government policy only 50 years ago included the forced removal of non full blooded Aboriginal children from their parents in order to `assimilate' these children into the `white' community.It was reasoned that these children would not be accepted by their full blooded compatriots and needed to be protected by their removal. The children were often trained to be servants to white pastoralists.         The issue is still politically hot, with the current Australian Government refusing to even offer an apology and Aboriginal health and welfare abysmal, not an uncommon situation for indigenous communities on our planet.         So Rabbit Proof Fence will be likely to cause some consternation amongst some Australians and as such is a notable film.         But what of the film. Well it lacked drama, partly because there was essentially no mystery about how the film would end, but largely because it's lenient on the subject matter.             It tells the true story of three children aged about 13, 10 and 8 who are taken from their parents in a remote camp in Western Australia in 1931.         They were sent 2000 kms to a Mission called Moore River but ran away the next day. Two of them manage to walk all the way home, taking weeks for the journey, with an Aboriginal tracker and police in pursuit. The third is captured along the way and this film does not record her fate. It is a remarkable tale.Rabbit Proof Fence isn't harrowing however, and a film on this subject could be extremely gut wrenching. This is a scenic journey and the children are charming. It's a nice story but not a Schindler's List, not a Once Were Warriors. It will suit middle class breast beaters but will offer very little to the debate. It certainly is unlikely to spark any meaningful action.As such it won't have much effect, but it probably was never meant to. It's at its strongest at it's end when we meet the old ladies who were two of those brave children. I'd have preferred the children to have spoken in language and for the film to have a much harder edge.         A quote from the Weekend Australian February 23-24, might give some idea of where Rabbit Proof Fence might have gone. Ms Marjorie Williams, an Aboriginal woman who lives on the streets in Darwin and a friend of three men who were viciously bashed by `white youngsters' two Tuesday nights ago was quoted as saying. `We're peaceful drinkers. We laugh, we dance, then we go and sleep. Why do they hate us?'2 Pale Flys Out Of Five    "},{"Title":"Wonderful accomplishment...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ...could have even been longer.  Brilliant cinematography, fully depicting the vastness of the Australian centre, combined with simple yet effective storytelling, an emotive script - importantly based on a true story - and fresh acting from some talented newcomers...actually the only disappointing aspect of this film was that it could have been much longer.  It struck me as if the editor had done a huge chop-job post-production - if this is true, perhaps Noyce might think about releasing a director's cut in the near future?  Of the entire cast, Branagh was the least effective, although obviously in a very difficult role he probably didn't like portraying.  The three girls (Sampi, Sansbury and Monaghan) are striking in their respective parts, but for mine, don't be surprised if Dave Gulpilil gets a Best Supporting Actor award at next year's AFI's.  As Noyce himself has said, there's a lot of white guilt here clouding audience appreciation a lot of people are seeing this as a race thing, a chance to say sorry to the Stolen Generation.  It certainly is that, and importantly so perhaps informal apologies (for what they're worth) like this - as opposed to an official recognition by the Prime Minister or whatever - are more effective, as they truly reflect public opinion.  But we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that it is a real human drama the heartbreak of seeing families torn apart - for whatever reason - is something surely everyone can relate to, and revives some dormant fear that is always with us.  Well done, Noyce just another example of brilliant Australian cinema - after the success of 2001, if RABBIT PROOF FENCE is anything to go by, we should be in for another bumper year, with films like the controversial duo BLACK AND WHITE and AUSTRALIAN RULES set for release.  Rating 8/10 (would have been at least a 9 had it been about a half-hour longer). "},{"Title":"A pitch to the heart","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am sure that this film will become a classic.  For those who don't believe that there is such a thing as a stolen generation go see it and educate yourselves.  Would be a great experience for John Howard.  This film could be a film that stirs a nations conscience. "},{"Title":"And Howard won't say sorry!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had seen two lengthy television shorts about the making of this movie and I was as familiar as a non-Aboriginal person could be about the general tragedy of the Stolen Generation but the power of Phillip Noyce's film was still unexpected strong.The short production stories had illuminated the difficulties of using young, untested performers to complete a movie that would have been difficult for seasoned adult actors much less children who knew acting only from personal viewing.  In these very difficult circumstances Noyce completed a staggeringly difficult film-shoot and he cannot be praised too high for this accomplishment.I know that there are perhaps a majority of Australians who, if they even believe some of the facts about the Stolen Generation, disbelieve the enormity of the social destruction whose repercussions are still being felt in our contemporary society-if the poignancy of the heart breaking facts of this film are not enough to sway these myopic people then there will never be a more powerful vehicle.See the film immediately! "},{"Title":"A must see film","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Rabbit-Proof Fence directed by Phillip Noyce in 2001. I concur with a previous, lengthy, review on this site. I had something to say but he did this for me. But at the start of the end credits I was a little choked and realized that this film had power over my thoughts. There was no foul language and no sex or nudity displayed although there was a hint of intended sex in the scene where the girls were to sleep the night in the bed of an indigenous maid at a farm house and a whiteman takes his trousers off(shirt covers the genitals) and it was obvious that he spends his nights(or some of them) with the maid but not tonight!!! The usual suspects have parts in this Australian produced film, even if small parts and would be recognizable to many viewers. The outback scenes and use of color shading was very good. There were some vintage cars used by the police and others trying to track the girls and one wonders who would let these vehicles out to be used over such a rough, rocky terrain for a film. Peter Gabriel's score was impressive and typical of a film score and apt.The use of current footage of the surviving women, Molly and Daisy, at theend of the film was good and gives the film a documentary feel. A shame that the middle and third girl, Gracie Fields, did not survive and never did make it back to her roots. The story had been adapted by a biography of a daughter of Molly but her first born daughter was taken away and never heard from again.The credits are lengthy like a Walt Disney animated classic of recent years but the audience, small as it was at this preview screening, stayed until they were over. It will be noted in the production credits that there are a number of people in pairs who have the same surname. A real family affair which might indicate the casualness, but nonetheless hard working and professional, Australian film crews.Like the other review, I am not in the film production side of the industry but know several on both sides of the Australian film and TV cameras none of whom apeared to work on this film.I do recommend this film to everyone and it does have a message to tell about a situation that should have never had happened here or anywhere else. Perhaps it is time for someone to make a film about the Australian and US habit of shipping back to China brides brought to those countries by Chinesemen who had settled in the West to earn a living, often at vegetable growing or in the goldmining areas for little reward and often beaten and blamed for every crime the whiteman committed in those areas. They had little option but to go home to get a wife and return with them and then have them shipped back by the then governments. Another horrible piece of history from the New World. It should be remembered that the Whiteman killed off many indigenous inhabitants in Australia by bringing his diseases into this country. The same is happening in the jungles of Brazil where the freeways have been pushed thru those jungles disrupting and killing off the lost tribes. Michael H. Australia "},{"Title":"rabbit proof spoof?","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have a nose for b.s. I guess, because there was one scene in Rabbit Proof Fence that made me VERY suspicious because it seemed to be plagiarized from an Irish documentary, Sex in a Cold Climate, 1997. The scene was where a runaway girl was taken to a shed, the chastising teacher given scissors and a belt and dealt with her, leaving the tormented, shaven girl a shamed prisoner.The scene was taken blow by blow from a description of an Irish woman in Sex in a Cold Climate, who was brutally punished in this way for a trivial offense when she was a child, by a nun. I wonder, maybe this was usual in the 30s & 40s? So I investigated, because this movie really seemed over the top, even for the 1930s.Like so many true stories on film, this one is not. It is based on the book by Doris Pilkington, daughter of one of the girls and even she and her mother said this was not their story. The real girls went willingly, leaving a highly insalubrious situation, not the earth bliss portrayed. They were most certainly not caged like animals (oh the emotional tricks of cinema) but went on a ferry part of the way and were fed lemonade and sandwiches. The school was not a concentration camp. All half caste children were not removed from their parents, nor anywhere near all, and many of those who were, were coming from genuinely bad environments. Half castes were preyed on sexually by both white & black.While it would be understandable for Aboriginals to want to portray themselves as noble victims and the whites as abhorrent oppressors, I am mystified why white film makers want to do so, when they obviously deliberately lied and made the whites infinitely worse and made the religious look like demons. Granted, some were, but not in this story.Indeed, the weirdest thing is, that this movie steals and distorts the whites' identity just as the film accuses the whites of doing to the Aboriginals. The next movie on this subject will be about WHY the whites decided to tell the story this way. Who is behind it? It is one thing to face the nasty truths about the past, but why make up evils that did not exist at least those portrayed here. What is the psychology? What does it have to do with making whites hate their own kind? How does it relate to the current controversy of immigration of non-European descended people? Stir up more guilt? The last gasp of the Marxists? I'm apolitical and not a Christian, but isms almost always distort history.Many wrongs have been committed towards Aboriginal people, no doubt. But if you have to lie and slander in the deliberate way this film does, to make a point, well, it makes you wonder why they can't make the point by just telling it straight. Telling it like Doris Pilkington wrote it. No--the whites cannot be made to be people. They must be monsters. Since that was not really the case in this story--question why was it told like this? I am still investigating.I am aware that this is controversial and Keith Windschuttle has been vilified for pointing out the inaccuracies I have noted. The fact that this movie tells such blatant lies makes Windschuttle's points all the more credible. "},{"Title":"The plight of half-cast aboriginal children in Australia becomes our journey","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof Fence is an heroic effort to bring to light the inhuman policy of the Australian government to remove half-cast aboriginal children from their natural families and raise them as domestic servants. They did this as a way of saving them from the poverty and ignorance of their primitive lifestyles. Kenneth Branagh, best known for his Shakespeare adaptations, gives us a chilling performance as the head of the government department responsible for the well-being of half-cast children. The story follows the miraculous journey of three girls determined to cross Australia, following the rabbit fence, to try and return to their home. No matter what I say, there is no way I could spoil this movie for you. You will be there, with these three girls and their extended family. Based on a historical account and written by one of the daughters of the three brave subjects of this film, it is as gripping a tale of human drama as can be told. Stunning performances by the three novice actresses in the lead roles. It is well worth getting on DVD to watch the documentary segment. "}{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence... just saw it  2005","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This story was one I was not familiar with (shame on me) until last week when we took a course on Intergenerational Trauma of Aboriginal people in Canada. It is a travesty of human nature, sadly we in Canada in the early days are responsible for trying to HUMANIZE the Aboriginals. Sadly today we continue do the same when we take children forcibly from their families, and send them to non-traditional homes where most still do not allow them their culture...... Another attempt to assimilate them into white society.Women especially in Canada were treated badly. While we read that colonization was traumatic to all aboriginal people it was largely the Aboriginal woman who suffered the most. Once they were acknowledged with relative honor, equality and respect. Occasionally they held political power in their own communities, this all changed with the introduction of a patriarchal system brought about by the Europeans. Women in European societies did not have this comfort, at least not at this time. Many, if not the majority, of Aboriginal cultures were originally matriarchal or semi-matriarchal. European patriarchy was initially imposed upon Aboriginal societies in Canada through the fur trade, missionary Christianity and government policies. Because of white intrusion, the matriarchal character of Aboriginal spiritual, economic, kinship, and political institutions was drastically altered. In Australia it was very likely the same.... The actor Kenneth Branagh, minister in charge of the half-castes, Mr. Neville ... a name I will not forget too soon, he is a real piece of work but he was not acting alone!!! It is a real shame.... One day I hope we ALL GET IT!! "},{"Title":"Nice Looking, But Not Much More","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" For those who need to get a dose of white guilt this movie will do just fine. A fairly gripping story of the travels of three half cast aboriginal girls in a journey back home. They were taken as part of the stolen generations of aboriginals to a school to be educated and to be trained as domestics. Although a terrible time in Australia's past, the guilt pointed at the white man is a little thick and hard to swallow. The performance by Everlyn Sampi playing Molly is exceptionally good and she deserves credit. The scenery of Western Australia is stunning and the panoramas are breathtaking.2.5 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Honestly Piercing","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof Fence does a lot with very little. It has minimal plot and no big names to rest upon and still draws beauty from the sparse outback it was shot in along with real emotions from its viewers. It tells of aboriginal displacement without coming across as a documentary and yet still being informative and overflowing with information. Phillip Noyce's film is subtle, unique and should be looked to for inspiration.Molly, Gracey and Daisy are three half-caste girls who range from eight to fourteen years of age. Molly is their leader. She is smart, clever, and uses minimal words but still appears wise beyond her years. Along with the other two, she is taken to Moore River, where the whites of Australia hope to keep her until she can marry one of them. Their plan is to breed the aborigines out of her and her kin. Being the girls she is, Molly leads Gracie and Daisy out of the camp by escape and across Australia with no other guide other than the Rabbit Proof Fence that is little more than poles and barbed wire.It would be easy to make the story glamorized, to drum up the plot and add things that did not actually occur. After all, the bulk of this film is three young girls walking across desert with no conversation, reaction, or complaint. You have to ask yourself at a certain point how much of this is interesting and how can you translate the rest into two hours that an audience, which has been fed Hollywood blockbusters for too long, can take. What Noyce discovers in his film is that emotion is a stronger and more realistic special effect than Spiderman. If a person can say the film made them cry, they will probably not forget it soon. Of course, that's easier said than done. It's not like people sit down and plan to spend millions on a bad movie. Everyone puts work into things and some come out with a result that shows that time and others don't. Rabbit Proof Fence shows effort and still manages not to boast its accomplishment by overemphasizing its emotional points. Even when it reaches a cliché moment, you have to turn your head the other way and remind yourself that it's not a dramatization, it really happened that way. And also, the only reason something is cliché is because it's been overused. It does not mean that it's not existent. In fact, it means the opposite. A cliché happens everywhere, all the time. Rabbit Proof Fence is so simple that a cliché is expected because otherwise, it would have to justify not having such an ordinary thing, thus taking away from the simplicity. It's not often that a movie like this comes along. It went in with one piece of material and came out with the same one. It did not sub come to traditions that would guarantee it a larger audience support pool. Instead, it played to its strengths and came out a winner. ****/***** "},{"Title":"moving, beautiful film would recommend to everyone","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was a fantastic and moving film which left a tear in my eye and the end.  This film demonstrated what the human can do when determined, and tells the shocking truth about how the aborigines were treated by the white population.  The acting was fantastic.  See this film "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Earlier this year I saw a special about the films of Philip Noyce which included Rabbit-Proof Fence. I have been waiting for it's appearance on DVD and I have finally seen it. It is everything I had hoped for and more.As several others have commented, watching the making  of documentary one of the extras on the DVD, Along The Rabbit-Proof Fence, is like watching a movie in itself. It shows us the initial process of finding the three remarkable girls and eventually the interaction between them and the director and crew as filming progressed.As for the film itself, I thought it was wonderful. The fact it was based on a true life event made it even more amazing. As the film, and the girls, progressed I found myself saying, from time to time, twelve hundred miles. I couldn't imagine doing that under ideal conditions let alone between the ages of 7 and 14 through outback and across desert.. And then, at the end of the movie, you find out that Molly actually did it again several years later, carrying one of her children.I must say, if this had not been based on real events I don't think I could have bought it as a movie. It's hard to believe these events could have really taken place. Knowing differently, I find it awesome. Wonderful performances by all the actors, particularly the 3 girls, and an excellent job by Philip Noyce in telling the story of these remarkable girls, in particular, and of the Stolen Generation, in general. "},{"Title":"very strong and honest movie","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Friends of mine recommended it, knowing how much i love simple stories, though they thought it was rather boring.So I went too see it and was amazed they thought it was boring! It happens seldom I see a movie which is more captivating than this one. The look in their eyes, the wonderful soundtrack and the amazing landscape enables the director to hold the moments for such a long time without losing strength. For example, when the girls are holding the fence, while their mother, on the other side of the desert holds it too. Such a strong touching scene I've never seen.And as for the acting, it's a joy to see three girls who portray their characters with such an inner strength you almost forget they're actresses and not the real women. (after all this is a true story)The director keeps it simple and I think that's what makes this movie so good. Nowadays we lack movies which are honest and true, so I recommend Rabbit-Proof Fence highly to everyone! "},{"Title":"Powerful!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very enjoyable, uplifting, and powerful.  There are very few movies where there is very little dialogue but yet so much is said. As an American, I was intrigued to get a glimpse of this part of history that I know so little about.  The three girls, who didn't have any prior acting experience were good.  Kenneth Branagh was also good because he convincingly played a person who really believed he was doing was the right thing. Branagh kept the careful balance of humanizing his character but yet not making him over the top in his convictions. It was heartbreaking and well worth the highest rating. "},{"Title":"Be sure to watch the extra materials too!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was amazing.  The courage of the girls who lived this story and the effort of the girls who helped retell it on screen was humbling.  I knew that Austrailia had difficulties over their treatment of the aboriginal people just as we in the U.S. did with the many Native American tribes but I had no idea what they were.  The film does a very good job presenting the situation though I wish there had been a bit more about the lives of these girls before their abduction.  The aboriginal people of Austrailia deserve more than just a passing glance at their history.  I think it would have been nice to see some background of the people these girls were being taken from.  While their lives look difficult and underprivilaged compared to what Anglo culture prides itself in the rich traditions, spirituality and skills of the aboriginal society deserves more than a few minutes explanation.  Still the extra material on the DVD shows how they find the charming children who play the parts.  I really enjoyed that and think some of the most touching moments in the documentary part tell more about this story than the actual film. "},{"Title":"a powerful but sad movie...who didn't cry?","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  i would probably consider this one of the most capturing accounts of this tragic time in history. being austalian myself, i haven't really been into austalian movies but this is an exception. the cinemaography is beautiful- showing the remoteness and isolation of the desert. the music was haunting, really depicting the mournful kidnapping scene, to the reunion. the acting is amazing, all the girls are very talented. everlyn should have won that award. this movie makes me want change history! i felt so guilty by the end, even though it wasn't my fault. because the intolerance of white austalia in the 30s, some families will never know eachother.    "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A well-made film. I can't fault the acting (Kenneth Branagh is good), the child actors are remarkable, the cinematography is superb, and yet, it wasn't enough to make for a great film. The plot, which is based on a true story, is completely linear and unembellished, shown almost as a documentary. It's a sad chapter in Australian history, one that I'm sure has precedents all over the world, including North America, certainly not a new story. But it just didn't move me. Perhaps would make an engaging history lesson for kids and teens.  "}{"Title":"my favorite movie of the year, original, powerful, and deeply moving.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  i was blown away by this one.  i had no expectations at all going inas i knew nothing about the film.  based on a true story it tells thestruggle of three young sisters long journey home after beingseparated from their mother by the government.  the  performances, mostly by unknowns, at least to me, were allperfect.  this film at times was excruciatingly sad, and at the sametime most uplifting.  a truly unique story about survival and thestrength of the human spirit without a drop of the sentimentality.   atruly original and powerful film.   -can't wait to see what phillipnoyce did w. the quiet american.   "},{"Title":"This is a moving story. And it's true! See it.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like the gift you receive that is so impressively presented. The gift tag is well-written, the wrapping is beautiful, the bow is perfect -- you know what I mean.  What's inside -- wow.  This is a great movie. Everything that makes a movie.  From the music to the cinematography to the acting.  Remember this director, Phillip Noyce.  I'm sure there will be more great stories to come from him.  And I for one will see them all. "},{"Title":"Chris Doyle - genius","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a strong, powerful story. Director Phillip Noyce made a wise decision to get out of its way and simply let this story do its own talking.But the true master here is Chris Doyle - the film's  Director of Photography. Doyle, who is best known  for his innovative work with Wong Kar-Wai, weaves  in many possible visual interpretations of the story. Some of his static shots are organized to reflect the  knotted, natural shape of aboriginal art. In another  shot he divides the frame between silhouette and sky.  The running girls are moving silhouettes just like  everything else in the frame. There is only land and sky, and through the visual language the three girls  literally become a part of the land. There were many  other shots that were beautifully and subtly orchestrated,  but I recommend you see this film and view  them for yourself. Much of the credit for the success of this film has to be given to Christopher Doyle. His photography  captures the essence of the land and the characters  without explicitly advertising it.  "},{"Title":"One of my Top 10","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Being a movie buff for the last 52 years, this one goes into my top 10 movies.Excellent acting, fantastic directing and casting, wonderful scenes and out this world story.6 days after viewing this movie I am still thinking about the movie, the story and the governmental policy.This was a  movie, par excellence.Pete "},{"Title":"Beautiful, compelling film","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit-Proof Fence is the story of three children, legally abducted by the Australian protector of the Aboriginal people for the purpose of straining out the black blood. It is simple and heartbreaking in the extreme, without resorting to the kind of tactics used by Hollywood to instill feelings of guilt in all white people. I think this film should be recognised at Oscar time, perhaps as Best Foreign Film. I recommend it in the strongest possible terms. "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving true story of courage and determination.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Artistically photographed in some of the most beautiful and desolate countryside in the world.  This true story is a must see for serious film goers.  The three girls cast in the lead roles are non-professionals who give outstanding performances in this story of children being taken from their parents for political reasons. "},{"Title":"Philip Noyce's Schindlers List","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is totally emotionally draining. I have also seen the Australian DVD which has plenty of features on how the movie was made.To me this is Phillip Noyce's Schindlers List. What I mean by that is that nothing he has made before RBF and nothing he will make after it will have this same devastating impact. Take note that I am not comparing the films.Rabbit Proof Fence has detailed a part of Australian history that is not well known and that was still continuing in my life time. A shocking realisation for me. It is a simple story that is told quite simply and that is it's power. You do not need a lot of film making technical specialities to make this film as powerful as it is.Well done Phillip Noyce and the spectacular actresses involved.This film is almost too painful to watch but I urge you to do so. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Saw this on New Year's Eve. What a wonderful movie. Great directing. Fantastic acting by Everlyn Sampi and the other kids. Kenneth Branagh. Beautiful landscapes.Story was incredible and thought provoking. Almost like this cannot be.This is a ten. "},{"Title":"Bring your tissues","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful, heart-breaking movie, all the more powerful because it is a true story.  I can't imagine going through what those girls went through. A must see for everyone, certainly every Australian.  I think little Johnny Howard needs to be forced to watch it, in particular.But be warned - bring a hanky.  I don't normally cry during movies but I almost went through and entire box of Kleenex.  A real tear-jerker. "},{"Title":"the worst film of the new century","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this film has no plot, one does not care about the characters while watching it nor about the ending. in fact, the only reason i wanted it to end was so that i could get out of the cinema. i get the feeling that the book may be of some interest but it simply does not translate into the medium of cinema. it is melodramatic, lifeless and a thoroughly boring 93 minutes. the issues brought up in this documentary could be summarised in a news bulletin of less than five minutes. how on earth the director managed to raise the finance for the film is beyond me.if you haven't seen a bad film recently, go and see this one. it is absolutely dire. "}{"Title":"Superb heart rending true story","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I as a non-Aussie but whom has a great love of everything Antipodean, And a keen interest in Aboriginal affairs/ culture was aware of the History of the Stolen Generation, (from the 30's - 70's half caste aboriginal children were taken from their mothers to be either institutionalized, made to work in white homes or brought up as White children) thus making me wants to see this movie.And what can I say I wasn't disappointed! I have to hold my hat up to Philip Noyce for taking their True story (one of thousands) and turning it into a masterpiece. To the three little girls cast as Daisy, Gracie and Molly they were superb considering these were none professional people. And of Ningali Lawford (I await her performance in Drovers Boy ((another aspect of Black Australia's history) and  Myarn Lawford   who played their Mother and grandmother I cried the whole length of this movie. The heartbreak being taken from their mothers. The malformed ideas of Mr. Neville the devil(& the government and church of the time!) and the wholehearted determination to escape and come home to were they belong. The cinematography was beautiful and made you feel every step they took I also being a fan of David Gulpilil's was pleased to see him in this movie. Then at the end to realize to those who didn't know the truth to read what the women went through and still go through today were an eye opener and a heartbreaker again. Well done to you all this was a wonderful movie. Which subtly made its story known. My heart goes out to each and every one of you  the stolen generation  "},{"Title":"1st level escapist entertainment, 2nd makes you think","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Rabbit-Proof Fence is a real Hollywood movie. There is drama, emotion, heroism, suspense, big horizons and yet, it is not a Hollywood film, because it speaks about the racism of the white winners against the aborigines of Australia, in a manner that makes you think of the suffering of the non white minorities around the world, and yet, it is escapist entertainment, because of the great cinematography and the music. It makes you think and feel good at the same time. Yes it is cinema at its best. "},{"Title":"Shattering!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and it is staying with me.  The single word, Shattering, says it all!  A very moving portrayal of some of the events that surrounded The Stolen Generation. Recommended viewing for anyone who thinks they know it all or, know nothing of the circumstances of The Stolen Generation. My heart goes out to these people. "},{"Title":"A painful story well told","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Rabbit Proof Fence tells the story of the removal of three young aboriginal children from their family and their quest, on escaping from the home in which they were interred, to return to them.Phillip Noyce has done a great job in telling a profoundly moving story, without embellishing it.  He doesn't dwell on the political or moral debate surrounding the Stolen Generations and he doesn't attempt to cynically manipulate our emotions by presenting A.O. Neville and the other authority figures as caricature bad guys.This emphasis on simply telling the story is continued in his use of Peter Gabriel's soundtrack, which is always sympathetic and never intrusive.All of the acting, whether from the three young girls, who had no prior acting experience, or from the other more seasoned actors (Kenneth Branagh, Ningali Lawford, et al) is superb.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly directed, acted and filmed.  A very moving story.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Brilliantly directed by Phillip Noyce (Newsfront, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, etc.) this movie is based on a true story which has considerable contemporary relevance.Noyce has encouraged incredible acting performances from the three young Aboriginal girls who are the main characters in his film.  The cinematography captures the awesomeness of the Australian Outback.A very, very, moving film. "},{"Title":"Not my genre, but what a movie!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I must admit I was a bit weary of seeing Rabbit Proof Fence, mainly because I doubted the subject would appeal to me (as a teenage male).Being a movie that I probably wouldn't go and see at the cinema, I only expected to be mildly entertained. If you'd told me the basic story without showing the film, I probably would have been bored.However Rabbit Proof Fence is one of the first films in quite a while that grabbed my attention within the first 10 minutes, right through to the end. I've paid to see much worse, and would probably pay to see this again.You will enjoy Rabbit Proof Fence! I figure if I did, pretty much everyone else will! "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking triumph of the human spirit.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  RABBIT &#150;PROOF FENCE (2002) **** Kenneth Branagh, Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury, Laura Monaghan, David Gulpilil, Ningali Lawford, Myarn Lawford, Deborah Mailman, Jason Clarke, Natasha Wanganeen, Garry McDonald.   Powerful true-life account of three Australian aboriginal girls who were abducted as part of the country's internment camp treatment of &#145;half-caste' children (Aborigines of mixed race with white) who were raised to be lower class citizenry for nearly 100 years .  Set in 1931 the three girls set about their quest to return home to their mother 1,500 miles away with only the titular life-line running across the continent as a guide.  The three girls cast are all non-professionals but that doesn't discourage the emotional impact achieved by their heartbreaking performances (particularly Sampi, whose expressive brown eyes conveys volumes of words in simple glances) and Branagh as the perpetuator and self-professed protector of the natives elevates his blind passionate character from becoming an easy villain to loathe.  Filmmaker Phillip Noyce does a remarkable job in his direction particularly allowing many scenes to commence without sound and let the stillness affectively depict the seemingly impossible feat at hand.  Christine Olsen's taut and well-paced screenplay adaptation of Doris Pilkington's autobiography is a work of true artistry. One of the year's best films. "},{"Title":"Over-Rated and Under Baked","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I address this review to readers who are not from Australia.It concerns me, when on such a powerful internet movie database such as this, to see so many of us Aussies rambling on about the brilliance of this film. International users may take their high praises on board, rent / buy the film, and be very unsure in the future about giving Australian films a go in the future.And we DO make some truly great films. It's just that this isn't one of them. It's not bad - but it COULD have been so much better.Yes, the subject matter is a first, and way overdue. And performances across the board are solid. But all other aspects are extrememly pedestrian. Noyce (Director) has never been known for brilliance (here in Australia or in Hollywood). I suspect blame for the overall feeling of lack of journey (how ironic) one feels at conclusion of this film, rests firmly with him.Don't believe the hysterical raves of most of the Aussies posting reviews here - sadly this film dumps any true impact or depth it could have achieved half way along the Rabbit Proof Fence.  "},{"Title":"Simple, Interesting, but Mostly Uninvolving","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof Fence tells an interesting historically angled story of several young aboriginal mixed racial girls escaping a state-run savage-to-civilize conversion institution during the 1930s. The story is lean, meager, and simple as are the characters for the most part - in a chase movie. It runs about 90min, but seems like it could've been less. Narrated and possibly based off the actual accounts of one of the girl's, there is a comforting sense of credulity about the occurrences. However the story was somewhat slow - and events are few and far between with not enough action. (spoiler) Towards the end the actual subjects of the movie are shown chatting to the camera. On display is the obvious racial cleansing motives and supposedly higher power ordained aims to civilize savages. The historical context of Australia conjures direct comparisons to Native American treatment in the USA. Not a bad movie, worth a look - possibly a rental. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully balanced masterpiece","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie could easily have been just another anger arousing story about racist tyranny. But it chooses to rise above simple hatred, much like Australian Aboriginals themselves chose to remain more civilized than their oppressors. Even the main villain is not a bad guy, he's just a bureaucrat who thinks he's doing the right thing.This is basically a story about how people can do even seemingly impossible things, when justice is on their side. Government troops are no match to a little girl, who just wants to go home. In all it's simplicity this is the most uplifting movie I have seen in years.Everlyn Sampi does a memorable role as Molly, a 14 year old half aboriginal girl. Her eyes do most of the talking in the film. The mighty Australian landscape gives a perfect background for it.Rabbit-proof fence is based on a true story, a book written by Molly's daughter Doris Pilkington, who's also a victim of Australian government's oppression. Often true story movies are duller than fictional ones, because the writers imagination can't run free, but not this film. It captivates you on the very first minute and doesn't let go before the end. "}{"Title":"What an amazing moving!!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I would have to give this movie a 10.5 only because it actually made me (a grown man at 30) cry on my couch at the end when those girls ran back to their mother after trekking their own trail of tears for over 1,500 miles back home. This movie reminds me of my grandmother Ataska who turned 101 August 10th 2006. She is still alive today and we cherish her. Ataska was born in Idabel, Oklahoma back in 1905, but as I did my research on her, I learned that Oklahoma didn't become a state until 1906. So my grandmother Ataska was born in what is called Indian Territory. She was born on a route near a reservation camp. The argument in the family (every Christmas and Thanksgiving)is that grandpa who passed away years earlier said to the family that she is a descendant of the BlackFoot Tribe. I say she might be Seminole. But she is half African, Native-American and European and was possibly named Ataska after a popular name for a Thoroughbred Mare. But the story of Rabbit-Proof Fence just shows the parallel of what happened to my grandmother's family as they were both exterminated and raped. But still survived the odds. The two girls (although I couldn't tell their sex from their odd features) told the story with a stellar approach. I am glad that I caught this film on IFC. I learn everyday about the differences of people. I don't hold any grudges against any white dude because of the past. I think these stories need to be told so that we can move on from it. Most of my friends are of a different race than I. Although they want to keep calling me an African American, I would rather be called Black American because I don't have any ties to Africa. I feel more at home with the Natives of America because of my grandmother's heritage. It is amazing how grannie at 101 is still alive today and is considered our princess warrior. We always give her a birthday crown for her birthday because she is our Queen Bee!!www.myspace.com/theprosulasShamari "},{"Title":"expose of the incredible strength of some unlikely individuals","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A beautiful film. This site already contains plenty of detail on the basis of the film and its roots in the former Australian Government policy of attempting to remove aboriginal children from their homes and assimilate them into white culture in the 20th century. Whilst this theme is central and powerfully exposed in this movie, it is not the most striking aspect or what makes the film great. What makes it great is the Shackeltonesque triumph over adversity of ones so young.If you have ever spent half an hour exposed to the sun in the Australian desert it is hard to believe they survived 9 hours, let alone 9 weeks walking under it. The scene on the infinite salt plain begins to give real insight and was the highlight for me. The fact that even the fence quickly wilted in that vast no man's land, yet the kids eventually got across it, was powerful imagery. Ironically, even though the film spends much time following the trek along the fence, I thought the production let itself down just a little in understating and somewhat sanitizing the enormity of the conquest. I would have liked the bitter and unending adversity brought out a little more. A few more scattered scenes zooming/panning through the heat haze viewing to and from infinity depicting the inconsequential size of the creatures attempting to conquer the desert could have imbued the immensity of the conquest a little better. A touch more aboriginal music through those scenes would have also better conveyed their connection with the desert. So only 9.5 but nevertheless, still truly a remarkable depiction. "},{"Title":"One of the best films from Australia","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film tells one of the most incredible stories of escape, evasion, and survival, explores racism and cultural clashes, and displays some of the most talented child actors in Australia. Everlyn Sampi plays Daisy Kadibill, who at 12, is the oldest of 3 girls ripped from their families by the Australian Government, in an attempt to elevate them from their primitive tribal ways. Called half-cast, which means they are of mixed white and Aboriginal blood, the girls are taken to a special school 1200 miles from home, where they are trained to be domestic servants for white people. The harsh treatment at the school prompts the oldest girl to run away home, taking her sister and cousin with her (played by Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan).David Gulpilil plays a minor role as a tracker, hired to track them down. A game of cat-and-mouse ensues as the girls travel the 1200 miles home, on foot, through the Australian desert, alone, cleverly evading capture, and living off of the land and what few handouts they can get from settlers and other Aborigines they meet on the way. Like in the film Whale-Rider, the child-actors out-shines the adults, and we see some incredible performances by young first-time actors.The film does an excellent job exploring the racism of 1930's Australian society, and the morality of the Aboriginal act, which gave the government the power to take children away from their Aboriginal parents, and tell whites whether or not they could marry Aboriginal spouses. We get to see a recreation of a presentation that was given to many white civic leaders at the time, which promoted the Aboriginal act as a way to elevate the Aboriginals by breeding the Aborigines out of them though marriages to white people, and forcing the less white half-casts to be part of white society as domestic servants. It was a pretty face put on a system that amounted to slavery and genocide through eugenics.Of course, as the film so eloquently shows, Aboriginal people were far more capable of taking care of themselves and were far more intelligent than white people gave them credit for; the girls manage to outwit their pursuers, and survive in the harshest environment, on their own.The film gets it's title from a 2,000-mile long State Barrier Fence of Western Australia, designed to keep hordes of rabbits off of farmland, and referred to as the rabbit-proof fence. The fence goes from the coastline of western Australia, and a portion of it, as pointed out by a character in the film, leads directly to the village where the girls were taken from. Thus, the fence is their road to home, and to being re-united with their parents.The film is very satisfying, full of drama, full of history, and full of life's lessons. It is easily one of the best films that Australia has to offer. "},{"Title":"How much has changed?","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Whatever happened to Everlyn Sampri, Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan? Just seen the film again (thanks to BBC4 in UK- what a channel- demonstrating that the best films are not always UK or US). This film is incredible, yet, notwithstanding their magnificent performances, the main actresses have not been seen on screen since. Perhaps Hogan or Gibson might have a look at them!Most of the male and/or white actors have worked regularly since but we have seen little of the Australian/ women actresses.Is Australia still intent on maintaining a white and male dominant society as is depicted in this film. I am convinced that UK and probably US, despite legislation to the contrary, are! "},{"Title":"A really important film, a must see!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film shows another side to that which we normally see of Australia. Subconsciously no doubt, it also goes some way to give background to the feelings of some Australians about the British influences on the nation. It's easy to pass judgement whilst watching this film, but do remember that the attitudes of the time are personified in Brannagh's character, who is British.The film itself is very easy to watch. Aussie friends of mine unwittingly put me off seeing it, saying how sad it made them, and whilst there are many sad moments, it is not violent like Mississippi Burning or Schindler's List, it's much easier to watch somehow, although just as poignant and meaningful.It's also a heartwarming, fascinating and amazing tale of the endurance, mental and physical of three children, and of course generations of Aboriginal families. Worth a view one evening, certainly. "},{"Title":"Powerful adventure of determination in a rugged land","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As I walked through my local video store I spotted who I thought was Kiefer Sutherland on the cover of a DVD case. I took a quick look at the back and being fan of his rented it...well it turned out it's not Keifer Sutherland on the cover but rather the terrific Kenneth Branagh (look at the cover there is a striking resemblance!!) Fortunately I wasn't disappointed and that's my little story about how I came to watch Rabbit Proof Fence. One of the most brilliant and captivating parts about Rabbit Proof Fence is Austrailia which plays as much of an importance to this film than any of the main characters. The land is rugged and barren and seemingly devoid of any life and then you have these three girls with utter determination to find their way back to their family. You can't help but feel the destitution these girls must feel just by seeing the land alone. The premise and plot and script of this film is so simplistic it might almost come across as boring but it never feels that way because you're watching something based on real life and you're watching these young girls in the most dire of situations and their strength and courage.Everlyn Sampi plays her one and only role to date as the eldest sister Molly Craig. Sampi is brilliant!! She won some awards for this role and justifiably so because she is strong and determined and protective and forceful. She becomes the adult in an instant all to save her sisters and she is tortured by the fact that she didn't save both of them. Her performance is quiet and subtle yet powerful. Tianna Sansbury plays the youngest of the girls Daisy. Her role is much smaller and not entirely significant except to see Molly (Sampi) protect her with everything. She carries her most of the way across their nine week trek!! Laura Monaghan plays the middle sister Gracie. Gracie shows a lot of determination as well but she's headstrong and has some defiance about her and ultimately it leads to her being caught while the other two escape. The three girls have the most screen time of anyone and for such young, first time actresses they are brilliant!! All three of them are genuinely Australian natives and do a terrific job of drawing you into their journey. Supporting them in roles are David Gulpilil as the tracker Moodoo. His role is small and I'm not sure he says anything at all but nonetheless he tells a world of a story with his expressions and body language as he tracks them across the outback. He's frightening to see but there is something behind that...a kindness, an unwillingness to hunt these girls who are his own people. The veteran of this cast Kenneth Branagh who is a fantastic actor (I can't recommend Warm Springs enough...See my review.) His role is quite small in this film as the caretaker of Aboriginal Rights Mr. A.O. Neville. He is responsible for rounding up half caste children to train and educate them properly to live in the world where they can be of use (obviously a very racist stance on things.) He shouldn't necessarily be made out as a bad person but rather misinformed and determined to do his job but he does come across as a might villainous at times. Still I would like to have seen him in the film more as he has a lot of talent.The brilliance of this film as I stated before is the Austrailian heritage that it embraces. Director Phillip Noyce (who is also a native Austrailian) is a film maker who usually makes action, mystery films and this is a far cry from that but still he does such a magnificent job because I think he perfectly captures the historical significance of this journey. Along the way the girls are both helped and hindered by a myriad of characters and people and you are right along there with them. The story is so incredibly simple and yet you can't stop watching it. It's fascinating and one of the best indie films I have ever seen. It's a powerful story of survival and determination and even in the end when we see the real Molly Craig and we get a synopsis of her story after the film and discover eventually she was taken back to that place many years later and she again escaped with her own children you feel for her and you feel like you know her and her plight. This is a powerful drama and a well made, terrific film. It's not exactly a popcorn flick but it's intelligent and beautiful. The film is almost entirely depressing and has a very gray feeling and overtone but there is such an uplifting adventure there that you have to root for it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Simple but evocative","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The stupidity and cruelty of Australia's racist past, and the stark beauty of that country's deserted west, are both spotlighted in Philip Noyce's film, 'Rabbit- Proof Fence'. It's a simple but gripping tale, told in an impressionistic style the logistics of the survival of the runaway girls who are its heroines are not presented in great detail, but the epic nature of their journey is suitably conveyed. The limited dialogue gives the young actresses in the lead roles limited opportunities to act, but the beauty of Everlyn Sampi serves as a permanent visible reminder of the madness that once deemed half-castes an inferior people. The continued difficulties in settler-native relations in Australia means this is an important film, as well as an evocative one. "},{"Title":"We need to protect them from themselves","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1931 Aboriginal children were taken by force from their parents,taken over a thousand miles away and put in dormitories and trained to basically be domestic slaves to the white man and to finally breed out the Aborignie race. This is the most moving heart wrenching film i have ever seen.It follows three girls who escape and travel along the rabbit proof fence,put up to keep out rabbits from farm land,in an attempt to get home. The beginning of the film moved me like no other film ever has.As the girls are being taken off in a land rover their relations claw at the windows to reach their children and when the truck has gone, the wailing and the grandmother beating her head with a rock were too much for me and I'm not ashamed to admit that i broke down completely. Kenneth Brannagh plays the protector of the aboriginal race,A O Neville .His portrayal of evil clothed in the cloths of Christianity is all the more chilling because he truly believes that he is doing the right thing.Watch the film yourself as its the only way you will truly understand the shameful treatment that was meeted out to the aboriginal race in this shocking true movie. I shall close with A O Neville's final chilling words, We must protect them from themselves 10/10 "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit Proof Fence is a really really nice movie... it has a good message to it it's a simple story of how 3 young girls were taken away from there home town Gijalong to moor river, it was 1500 miles away but the girls have enough courage to run away tricking the tracker all the way, they were so close to being caught but Molly's quick thinking saves them all but as the girls try to find the rabbit proof fence they meet an Aborigine man who tries to trick the girls into going to the train station were the Caucasian people would see her.... but the male, actually fools Gracie into going to the train station..... but it's sad as her cousins have to see her being taken away.. it upsets molly.The Caucasian people try to bleed aboriginal blood so thin that it will no longer exist... it's not fair i think that the moral to the story is . don't judge people by their col-our because no mater your col-our you can still accomplish things in your life... you have nothing to stop you, if u want something in life set it as a goal.hope you like it!! "},{"Title":"you've come a long way baby","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" While I would recommend watching this film, I suspect the book is even better as it would allow for more monologues, and/or back history. And yikes, what a history.This past Fourth of July here in the USA I attended a speech by George Takei (yep, Sulu) who talked about the Japanese internment which he underwent as a child, one wonders and worries about the shameless acts going on currently.Here we have a child's eye view of the Stolen Generations in Australia which I'll confess I knew nothing about beforehand. The film is not at all preachy, simply focused upon the universal longing to rejoin one's family, and then dealing with the specifics of a long trek. It also avoids having any sort of Nurse Ratchet figure to terrorize the children. Well there is the boob. The film does file pretty much all of Neville's devilish deeds on a sort of racial quarantine. I wonder if that is a gross simplification?Were there proponents of the plan that wanted to rescue children from poverty, starvation or lack of opportunity? I know that still shouldn't justify separating children from their parents...but hold that thought while you watch Born into Brothels, Will the heroic actions therein be seen as misguided.Back to the success of this film, I also think that notion of a long and dangerous journey made by us as children is probably a pretty strong archetype. Something most folks can connect too. Although typically our juvenile journeys seemed longer to us than they were geographically, 12 or so blocks as opposed to 1200 or so miles.Thus we wind up with a fairly simple story for an excruciatingly complex slice of history. It gets by on solid casting; much has been made of the three girls, watching the DVD feature on the making of shows these kids as such bubbly, bright-eyed kids next door underscored Noyce's excellent use of understatement. Or willingness to shoot enough to then trim out what was needed. A realistic key for me was significant dialog that often is not much more than a grunt...Minimal hints of Aboriginal mysticism, along with Peter Gabriels' subtle sonic shadings were other highlights for me As to the former, David Gulpilil (the Last Wave is a *must* see film) as Moodoo the tracker was superb, we get a hint of his contradictory nature employed by the very people who have abducted his daughter. I'm curious if that was just a plot contrivance for the movie. Sexual double standards are often almost as strong as racist reactions.Finally for me the coloring of the film was often superb (instead of everything looking dustily baked out) somehow the wilderness seemed more vivid, and thus able to sustain life on this seemingly impossible journey.We've come a long way, but still there's still a lot of progress to be made, here's hoping we as a planet have the resolve of Molly.7/10 "}{"Title":"Why does AO Neville look down the shirts of Molly Craig & the young boy?","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Can someone explain why A. O. Neville (Devil) looks down the shirts of Molly Craig and the young boy at the orphanage? I think the movie is interesting about race relations between black Australians and white Australians. I guess the idea behind taking mixed race children from their aboriginal mothers was to prove that the mothers were incompetent. If the mixed race offspring had children with whites through the generations then the physical traces of the original people of Australia will disappear. I like the indifference attitude that Kenneth Branagh has in the movie. I like the documentary with the DVD much better. The girl who plays Molly Craig has a lot of personality. The girl who plays Gracie should consider being a model in about ten years. "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is truly a precious gem of a movie. It shows how story, screenplay and acting is all you need to create an impressive film that conveys deep emotion and a multi-layered message. At the first level the film is about the escape of three small girls from their forced internment in an institute for mixed-race children, and their subsequent heroic trek through the Australian outback in search of their home and family. Their dogged determination in the face of thirst, hunger and exhaustion, not to mention the determined pursuit by the authorities who want them back, has been portrayed to perfection by the three inexperienced child actresses. The cinematography is superb, the music by Peter Gabriel is evocative and avoids cheap sentiment, and the post-script makes you sit up and gasp.But there is a lot more to it. It would have been easy to portray the 'Protector of Aborigines' as some kind of a Nazi monster, but the film makers avoid this cheap trap. Played by Kenneth Branagh, he is portrayed as an honest bureaucrat and a man of his times who is convinced that what he does is for the good of 'his' people, even if 'they don't realise it'. He is an idealist who doesn't understand how misguided he is by placing lofty ideology before basic human respect. Never does he wish harm to the girls, even as he ruins their lives by the forced separation from their mothers and their deportation to an alien environment thousands of kilometres away.Similarly, the policeman who has to actually go out and take the children away is not painted as a sadist monster, but rather as someone who does his job in accordance with the law and conventions of his age. You don't feel sympathy for him, of course, but you can't help feeling that he is just another ordinary guy you could meet anywhere, doing what most people would consider a decent job.These characters point to the ultimate meaning of this film. Exceptions aside, it is not us, individual persons, who are crooks that take delight in hurting others. Rather, the ultimate problem is the society and culture that we grow up in. A society whose rules and norms become so impersonal and abstract that it can trample basic human respect and still claim the moral high ground.If we disagree with the notion that the law must take priority over empathy with individual people, and watching this film will make you seriously think about this, we should not so much look at improving ourselves as individuals, but rather critically inspect the accepted norms of our society and consider very, very carefully if so-called 'collateral damage', to use a currently common euphemism, can ever justify the suffering that it invariably entails. I am not so sure anymore, and this excellent film has helped me shape my thinking. "},{"Title":"relevance to today's world","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I just watched it and unlike many other commentators on this list who seem to see it as some shameful past of australians only, i see the movie as highly relevant to today's world and the historical white man's burden theory that made them treat many a groups this way. The current occupation of Iraq and scenes of American occupiers pointing guns at iraqis, throwing them on floors, crashing into their homes etc. and then feeling and using language of self-righteousness as is they are doing them a favor and civilizing and democratizing them is quite similar. Israeli colonizers treat Palestinians similarly, like animals, with them deciding when and where they can go. So why is this so appalling as history while it is happening today and no one seems to do much about it. This racism is not new nor a thing of the past, just listen to the west speak about most of the non-western world. "},{"Title":"Not just for Australia... not just a statement... Modern West in its full glory!...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Someone has already commented about this movie 'Statement movie about a bad chapter in Australian history'. Well, this is partially true, but not enough...The most interesting point of this movie, (not underestimating its beautiful cinematography and nonparallel expressive immediacy), is the way it exposes how the Western, (White) strategies of social control of less powerful populations (with no guns or other means to resist) have been constructed around the notion 'for their own good and benefit'.This of course does not hold just for colonial Australia -where the movie's focus is, and not only for the recent past of modernity it goes on!... in a wide and deep range, in a historical, local and fresh way... Just look around you at the legitimating ideologies/propagandas that support the recent tactics of control and exploitation in international level -against other countries; as well as within the border, at all those governing mechanics of contemporary social policy and legislation toward 'abnormal', or 'at risk', or 'immoral' (and feared) groups of people. This constructed 'abnormality', or 'natural moral inferiority' or 'will to help' the assumed ones in a problematic position, hypocritically mystifying the calculated use of power and the biased ideologies involved, is the characteristic trademark of the Modern, White, Western reason and practice.The point is that the movie is more analytic -though not heavy at all- than usual efforts. Furthermore, feeling sorry about what the movie depicts is simply not enough, (and rather irrelevant and misleading). Someone has to recognise the whole deep-seeded oppressive and exploitative process that takes place the last two centuries. For the young heroin of the movie -as well as for all of us- schools and hospitals fight for the body and soul, in order to instill their proper identities... And note racism, exclusion, and exploitation is an integral and basic part of our western 'civilisation', not its dark side that hopefully will go away with 'progress' and through some naive ahistorical victory of 'human spirit'... neither just happens because of few bad individuals...The movie is highly recommended. It challenges and provokes thought... It uses emotion to interact and communicate... It is real as it gets... And it does not neglect to show how people in a complex way experience and resist as well... Crucially, they are not mere pawns in someone else's chessboard... But I'll let you see how in the real action.. So do not miss it! "},{"Title":"Long Long Trail Awinding","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Missed the first ten minutes or so, and lost the reason why the three cute aboriginal girls were separated from their family. Kenneth Branaugh, in an excellent performance, distant and compassionate at the same time, makes pronouncements about saving these people from themselves. I gather that, as The Chief Protector of Aborigines, he means that they must be cleansed of their own culture and learn that of the West. The way to do it seems to be to remove children from their families and put them in formal schools where they can learn English ways.It's a good movie. Nothing is force fed to you, no moral messages stuffed down your throat as if you were a Strassburg goose. The message is clearly enough spelled out in images and incidents. It ought to inspire a good deal of white guilt, although I don't know why. Most white people had no idea of what was happening in Australia -- didn't know where Australia WAS.The three kids are very good, although they have very few lines. In fact, nobody would claim that this is a talky movie. Whole minutes pass while we watch the girls outwitting their trackers on their long long walk back to their Mum in Western Australia, following a rabbit proof fence. They're pretty clever too. As Branaugh remarks at one point, Just because they are neolithic doesn't mean they have neolithic minds. Nobody knows what neolithic minds were really like. That's like 20K years ago. But those minds produced some mighty fine cave painting and some exquisitely flaked spear points that are light years beyond the merely utilitarian. (The Australian aborigines also had a staggeringly complex system of descent, the most complicated version of which I -- as a cultural anthropologist -- still do not understand. They didn't have much in the way of tools but they had a lot of imagination.) They had a sophisticated vision of time and conceptions of magic which, thankfully, the movie does not go into. Unlike so many movies about natives, the writers don't tell us that these are people in touch with the earth, with the spirits, living in harmony with nature, while white people are just out to beat everyone else into submission and rape the earth of its resources -- however true that may sometimes be. No -- these are just three ordinary, sullen and quiet kids who want to get back to their families. And Branaugh is no villain. His racism is casual and linked to the times he lived in (just as ours is) and he's chiefly concerned that the girls may die in the Western desert.David Gumpilil is the aborigine tracker working for Branaugh. He wears a threatening expression throughout the movie but at the same time sympathizes with the girls. (His own daughter is forced to stay at the school.) What a surprise it was to see him again. Wow -- has he aged -- beautifully -- since he was a young likable man in The Last Wave and Walkabout. Many viewers seeing him and the other native Australians might think, Oh, they're black, like African-Americans. But they're not. They were (until very recently) the most isolated of human populations and their genes are as confusing as their kinship systems. Their skins are dark, yes, just like the average human on earth, but notice that their hair is either straight or wavy.They were treated as the white man's burden, as the film shows. We managed to bring enlightenment to the darker regions of the earth. But at least the Australians are still around. They were not wiped out by disease (like our North American Mandans) or deliberately murdered and dispersed like the native Tasmanians who lived on an island to Australia's south and were probably even more neolithic. It's a highly watchable film, emotionally engaging. Man, are we sad when one of the girls is caught and carted off in a 1920s sedan down a dusty road. And we are happy in the scene in which an investigating constable stumbles across two aboriginal men in a forest at night. The men are guarding a woman's ceremony. The constable, armed with a rifle, advances and one of the aborigines slowly raises his very primitive spear and balances it on his shoulder, the bare point, simply ground like a pencil's, pointing at the constable. The scene is full of the potential for violence and is completely wordless. Really effectively done.And the location shooting is splendid. The dry fine soil is the color of ochre and the shrubs with their tiny leaves are a pale aqua.It's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"This is a movie that touches the heart","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I've just watched this movie and was very touched by it. In Sweden there's a proverb that says something like May Heaven protect us from Stupidity that is able to act and that is just what I felt when I watched the film that tells about a very bad time in Australian history when aborigines were viewed as something not quite human and British clerks could behave as badly and stupid as the one in this film. I almost cried my eyes out, the girls in this film were treated badly because they were aborigines. It's a bad time in history and this film is very important, it reminds us of that time. I'm a middle aged woman from Swedeb and I visited Australia some years ago when I received a very large grant for traveling. I've got wonderful friends in Australia and I loved the country, maybe they think the same about Sweden and how we treated the people in the North. I haven't the answers to all this, humanity is a strange and wonderful thing. This film makes you think! "},{"Title":"Great movie, very realistic and heart-moving.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is full of great actors and the director is one of the best. Saw it, loved it and i would strongly recommend for ages 10 and up. Gives you a really good understanding of what 'half-castes' were treated like. Molly's actress was absolutely brilliant and i cried when Gracie was taken away. It was an excellent idea to have the real Molly and Daisy at the end, i can't believe Molly walked all that way and did it again.Kenneth Branagh acted a brilliant Mr. Neville. It is a frightening but true fact that everything in this movie is true. It is an extremely difficult thing to show a viewer what it was like in those days but the director took and succeeded the job. "},{"Title":"Touching and powerful","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie has much strength in the fact that it is entirely based upon an incredible true story, and does honor to that story. The three girls torn from their mothers who make the long trip home were real, and about the same ages as the young actresses who play them. There is a prologue and epilogue that starts and ends the film on just the right note. As we watch the long trek unfold, we feel admiration for the girls' strength, rather than simple pity for their plight. The treatment of their pursuers shows rightly how while the enforcement of the government's policy is cruel, it is not motivated by cruelty; it is motivated by blindness and self-righteousness. The girls who play the lead characters perform well enough, especially considering that none of them were trained in acting before being cast for this film. It is an amazing story, and I believe the film does it justice. "},{"Title":"Truth and Beauty among the Aboriginal Tragedies","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  !!!Warning! Plot Details!!!It is unfortunate, to say the least, that some are too jaded to accept a film as wonderful as Rabbit-Proof Fence as the innocent and worthy tale it is. Perhaps those of us who love film eventually reach a point that nothing can escape appearing poisoned by its genre or derivative of some coincidentally similar story. Maybe some movie fans are just too cool for school.While it's one man's opinion, I have to contend that Rabbit-Proof should be well beyond any constraints or demerits that may come from the familiarity of the story line. Few films have ever or will ever catch the themes and nuances of a journey home the way this one does.Nothing more could be asked of a film with such beautiful elements. It conveys a solemn air of the determination and maturity of soul of the girls in the story and richly characterizes the Outback to which they return as a reflection of the beauty and fairness of their stone-faced will and intensity. Through breathtaking cinematography, perfectly spartan dialogue, and artful juggling of what could have become heavy-handed or even disappointingly muted dialogue, the people who made this movie out did themselves. The fact that this story is true only serves to make it all the more moving and the way it was told more appropriate.Of ten stars, 8.5 - ********.5/**********  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply amazing. It is a true story that everyone should see. A true masterpiece. It is the story of aboriginal sisters taken from their mother because their father was white. The movie follows the girls journey to a 'camp' where they are kept away from true aborigines so that the race can be preserved. Molly, the oldest sister, leads her sisters away from the 'camp' and attempts to make it across Australia, back home to their mother. The acting by the entire cast is great, except Jason Clarke who plays Constable Riggs. The cinematography is breathtaking. The story is heartbreaking. A certain must see.  "}{"Title":"An Extraordinary Film of Faith and Hope!","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie depicts the brave hearts of three young girls with the Ambition to be as all Americans-FREE! The young girls never gave up hope through the journey and successfully accomplished what it was that they had set out to do. This is an Excellent move for School Education as it portrays the life of the Aboriginal Life style and the Evolution of society since. I would really recommend the Movie to anyone whom is eager about learning the ways of our past as to lead up to the ways that our future has came to be. I watched this movie in my Global Issues class and to say the least I really learned something. It's amazing how the mind can become so narrow at times as to try and delete a way of life be Evolution  "},{"Title":"'Walkabout' For Women","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Recently rented this in DVD format, which include some enhancing special features. I enjoy watching movies out of Australia because the perspective is usually refreshing compared to Hollywood. Also movies to do with Aborigine life are very intriguing to me. I've been hooked on this theme since `Walkabout', a movie that touched me deeply in my youth. This movie is a great addition to the genre...a theme that should never be forgotten or belittled. Be aware however, that this story goes far beyond that of mismanaged directives over indigenous peoples. (For those of you who believe this situation never happens...think again! I know it happened first hand to native Americans and will probably continue to happen as long as there are people conquering other people.) It's also about courage, determination, conviction, and the amazing power of love. I was delighted to have my 14 year old daughter watch and enjoy it along with me. In a way, it's a `girl power' movie because the heroine too is a 14 year old girl who's circumstances enable her to use her wit and cunning to return her self and her sisters to their beloved home against terrifically difficult odds. The fact that it is based on a true story is all the more remarkable. And as we learn in the after credits, a situation that continued well past the time it took to figure out it was more damaging than helpful.As has been stated already, the children who play the three little girls are complete amateurs but under the tutelage of talented director, Phillip Noyce  as convincing as any professionals in their roles. I just wanted to add that beyond great story telling, beautiful scenery, and powerful music this is also a wonderful coming of age story that packs a particular strong punch for a young girl. Mom's should watch this with their daughters. "},{"Title":"A Spectacularly Pleasant Surprise!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I was expecting a well-shot documentary-style film with an emotional edge.  What I ended up with was a movie that is now in my Top-10.  And that's a club that's filled with Sci-Fi action movies.A very touching story that goes beyond the feminine tear-jerker.  It could've been a bunch of boys and it wouldn't have mattered.  I mean, we already know the story before we even pop in the DVD or walk into the theatre. We know how it ends.  How much excitement can you expect?  But the living room was in awe by the time the credits rolled.Kudos all around for a job well done.  I'm buying the DVD because of the absolutely- perfect camera work.  Nothing fancy, nothing flashy.  But every scene was a portrait, every movement was with purpose.  There was no fat in this production. Even if the acting sucked (which it was moving for everyone involved), the camerawork is still a great example to strive for.  Back to the acting, I felt like we were watching the events unfold for the real girls, and not a trio of actors recreating the events. I bought-in to the story because of the actors, especially the girls.  I know they are the stars of the film, but they stole the show from Kenneth, who was the original reason I picked up the Netflix choice.  I wanted to see it at the local theatre, but it came and went before I could buy a ticket. "},{"Title":"Thin story that drags and drags and drags zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a very slim storyline that really drags. Even though this is a short film (90 mins.) it moves at a snail's pace and seems to last for hours. I was so bored that I had to fast forward the dvd during the last 20 minutes or so. I'm sure that its all very worthy, and the policies of Australia in the past are exposed as shocking, but it cannot be called entertainment and if you are looking for a quiet night in with an engrossing film, avoid this like the plague! "},{"Title":"Amazing and Angering!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  All I could think of through this incredible film is that I hope the Whites who did this to these people had a horrible and painful end, preferably staked out on an ant hill and their bodies shredded. This is very much like the American Indians were treated. Someone on here said they couldn't see or believe how this could happen. I suggest this person read their history books or, better yet, go visit these two remaining women and tell them it's a lie. Boy, do whites love going into denial about these things. I've been to Australia twice and found the Aborigines (who weren't corrupted by the whites) to be amazing people. They have survived having their lands stolen, turned into slaves, and treated worse than animals...even today. "},{"Title":"extra features on the DVD","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I just watched the DVD release of Rabbit Proof Fence, and this editon really showcases the power of the additonal DVD special features.  I was totally engrossed in the movie, and didn't for a moment feel as though the actors were actually contemporary young children.  Instead, I felt as though I was living in the time of the story - sharing the atrocities and challenges the children faced more than half a century ago.  However, when I watched the behind the scenes making of the film, I really appreciated how hard the director must have worked to find and train children who could so convincingly make me forget that this was indeed a movie, and not an archive documentary.  Ironically, the last segment on the special features shows the youngest child saying she eventually wants to become a director, since they don't do anyting besides shout action and cut!  It was amazing to see the kids behind the scenes, as they were in most ways like typical modern day children from the United States, or from practically anywhere around the world - something I wouldn't have dreamed of if I had only seen the movie itself. "},{"Title":"A Director With Something to Say (warning spoilers)","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Phillip Noyce has spent the last 10 years directing big budget hollywood productions. He has returned to Australia to direct this small personal film which tells the story of three girls that escape from their reduction camp to make a 1500 mile journey by foot back to their home after being taken by the government in attempt to eliminate half breed native children.Everlyn Sampi plays molly, the oldest of the three. She is supported by Tianna Sansbury as daisy and Laura Monaghan as gracie. These three non actors bring their characters sharply into view. The strongest of these performers is Everlyn Sampi. She plays gracie with a mix of resourcefullness, pride, defiance and a fair amount cleverness. Her characters will is the force that propells the narrative.Kenneth Brannagh plays A.O. Neville, the administrator of aboriginol affair. He is in charge of a policy that is in effect genocide. Unlike his character in Conspiracy , Brannagh plays Neville as a cold, meticulous, yet caring and misguided man. He truly beleives that what he is doing is right which makes him both evil and yet strangly sympathetic. His chilling performace comes across best in the scene where he discusses the reasons behind the policy of relocation and the breeding out of the black gene by the white gene.Special mention must be given to David Gulpilil who plays Moodooo. He is the tracker that is chasing the girls. He is an aborigoni. His character has very little dialouge yet his performance comes across completely. We get the sense that he hates the situation he is in and hates what he has to do. We always get the sense that he feels admiration and joy each time these girls evade him.Phillip Noyce directs his cast with special mention to the child actors very well. He shows that he can direct a simple story with as much skill as he can handle a large production such as Clear and Present Danger This film shows that he is truly a story teller.The ending is bittersweet in that it is true, joyous and yet informs us as to the fates of the principle characters. Perhaphs the saddest thing is that that the policy the Australian Government held  did in fact happen and lasted until 1970. The films never bogs down in sentiment that someone like Steven Speilberg was prone to doing in his earlier films like E.T. and Hook.As with all my reviews, I always recomend that you see the film for yourself and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"THE DVD EXTRAS ADD INSIGHT!","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The EXTRAS included on the DVD of RABBIT-PROOF FENCE do justice to a marvelous film. Viewers will be well rewarded if they take the time to listen to the voice commentary and watch the Documentary, FOLLOWING THE RABBIT-PROOF FENCE. Before watching the film itself (usally a dangerous thing to do), I took a look at the DVD Documentary. This follows director Phillip Noyce through the process of finding three girls to play the leads in the film. It is both fascinating and very moving. The challenge of selecting from hundreds of aboriginal children, all non-actors, three to carry the major portion a dramatic true story telling of the strength of the human spirit, has been marvelously captured in this 43 minute film. So involving was the experience that it moved me to tears, as we see the three chosen girls prepare for the scene in which they are torn away from their mother. This wonderful documentary shows what can be done to enhance the film experience. The commentary track is also an excellent example of how the artists behind the camera can share with the viewer the challenges that go into the making of non-mainstream movie. Miramax Films has done a first-class job on this DVD release! "},{"Title":"Needs to be a drama or a documentary, not a combination.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There can be no doubt that this harsh story needed to be told but it needed to be told differently. RPF was shocking in its ruthlessness and condescension and showed those gov't policy outrages effectively, but the flavor of the film to me was at least as much of a documentary as it was a dramatic film as it used a lot of non-actors, and often left me dissatisfied with the way RPF combined the two film-making styles. I wish it would have been wholly one or the other. As a documentary, it would have been an improvement to show more of the natural details of how the girls survived the incredible 1500 mile trek(twice for one of them!), which would have justified all the miles of footage of the austere and imposing Aussie landscape the filmmaker showed. More details on how they got enough food, water and shelter along the way was needed for historical accuracy. Greater attention to film details was lacking also, as at least two mistakes occurred about the direction of the girls route home along the rabbit proof fence line. And, a scene where officials were sent to grab one of the girls at a train station without even looking for the other two girls whose heads were sticking up very obviously about 100 feet away was a dumb and obvious mistake that detracted from the film's overall quality.The racist basis for the story was obviously disturbing and showed varying displays of imperiousness and heartlessness by gov't and school officials and private citizens, tempered by scenes of mostly sympathetic farmers and ranch workers who helped the girls along the way. The film did show this part of the tale effectively.The very impressive native actor who played the tracker sent by the school to bring the girls back was by far the best character in the film but, to the film's loss, he was not used to best effect. More about the scary cat and mouse game played along the way between the girls and this stoic and mystical tracker would have been thrilling. To me, the inclusion of the documentary style of film-making into a dramatic film prevented it from being the groundbreaking and transformational film that it could have been if done as a real documentary or as a full-blown dramatic film using professional actors in all roles. But, in the end the film's main point was made, as the historical upshot of all of that sanctioned gov't meddling was that it failed, and the gov't no longer interferes by policy with the lives of the indigenous people of Australia. All those years of gov't meddling went for naught at much expense, as it should have. The indigenous people can now live as they wish.(I saw this film again two years later and still have the same opinion and judgment of it. Should have been made as a documentary or a drama, not a combo of both styles.) "},{"Title":"Gripping story","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's a curious fact about Darwinism that it was once thought to have eliminated an end purpose or outcome of human history, a belief inherited from Christianity's prediction of the thousand-year reign of Christ.  Instead, Christian teleology took a new direction from Darwinism  throughout the western world, scholars believed that they had found the holy grail of human progress in Herbert Spencer's notion of the `survival of the fittest,' an idea adopted without restraint by Darwin, in which various varieties of the same species compete for dominance.  The `superior' would win out over the `inferior,' purifying the human race.  The Third Reich believed it had ushered in the millennium in precisely this manner;  likewise, Ellis Island phrenologists rejected or accepted immigrants based on prominent racial characteristics, while William Graham Sumner of Yale, one of the fathers of American sociology, espoused an economic and social doctrine that literally produced the squalor of New York's infamous East Side.  Rabbit Proof Fence is a heartrending tale about how these ideas played out in Australia.  Shot from a native's point of view, the film simply resonates with the trance-like vibrations of their ancestral chants, the intimate attachment to land, family, and tribe, the spiritual aspirations of a people who reverenced the spirit bird, not as something to manipulate with prayers and incantations, but to look after as a source of wonder and inspiration. Believe me, I'm not an overly sentimental person.  I hate the cute and the mawkish.  But this film is constructed with sinews of emotional intensity that you won't leave the theater but in tears.    "}{"Title":"simply amazing movie","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  'Rabbit-Proof Fence' is truly an amazing movie, despite what some of the more foolish reviewers are saying. There really aren't any words to do it justice. The actors are great and portray their characters in a very realistic and multidimensional way. The cinematography is beautiful, and the music fascinating. But the most amazing part of this movie is the true story of these children that walked 1500 miles to get back home. The entire movie is a testament both to human bravery and to human foolishness - our great sins and our great virtues. What is done to these children is horrible; what they manage to do is incredible. I mean, 1500 miles .... can you imagine that?  Oh, I should stop babbling.  The film is great. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie of the year, original, powerful, and deeply moving.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  i was blown away by this one.  i had no expectations at all going inas i knew nothing about the film.  based on a true story it tells thestruggle of three young sisters long journey home after beingseparated from their mother by the government.  the  performances, mostly by unknowns, at least to me, were allperfect.  this film at times was excruciatingly sad, and at the sametime most uplifting.  a truly unique story about survival and thestrength of the human spirit without a drop of sentimentality.   atruly original and powerful film.   -can't wait to see what phillipnoyce did w. the quiet american.   "},{"Title":"Simple, straightforward, beautiful","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The slow-moving plot (or almost no-plot as a friend called it) might determine some members of the audience to lay their heads on the back of their seats and go to bed. Still, for others, the slow plot is no deterrent from following the simple story unfold with the energy so easily created onscreen by the talented and uniquely photogenic young actresses that carry the movie from beginning to end.Rabbit-proof may here an there annoy with just barely over-wrought issues about social injustice, but on the whole it makes up for it through the on-the-dot pacing, beautiful cinematography, uniqueness of subject-matter, and expert acting. A film worthy of its medium, that film-lovers will thoroughly appreciate. Why can't the general public? "},{"Title":"Absolutely stunning","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Admittedly, I'm biased because I have this fascination with Australia as the funhouse-mirror-image of the USA, and real Aussie movies are few and far between, but still ...It is an absolutely incredible tale (aren't the most incredible tales the true ones?), the details of which have been covered in other reviews.  Suffice to say it is told with an attention to detail of landscape and humanity which matches the story itself.  Absolutely magnificent.- Dan "},{"Title":"Simply incredible.....","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one incredible film.  Some have criticized it for not being 'compelling' enough - but that simply reflects the fact that some viewers don't appreciate the sheer brilliance of how adroitly this movie conveys the reality of 1930s Australia.  There's no flourishes of an added chase or overtly demonic white men - rather, Noyce has provided one of the best reflections on an era steeped in ethnocentrism ever put on film.  Branagh is utterly perfect as the patriarchal officer who laments that the aborigines just don't understand what we are trying to do for them.  On the contrary, they most certainly did, they just didn't want the 'help.'  Having read a lot of Australian and American history, the parallels between Moore's River and places like Haskell, Carlisle, and most pointedly, the Cherokee Female Seminary in Tahlequah make this film even more important.  This was not a unique situation, although the lengths to which these particular young girls went to return home certainly is.Coming on the tail end of the Eugenics movement and the early 20th century belief that aborigines could be 'bred out', Rabbit Proof Fence offers an unflinchingly realistic view of the time without resorting to bombastic exaggerations or disingenuous polemics.  Instead, it tells an incredible, tragic, story with such beauty and clarity that any astute observer can't help but be moved.  The ending packs an extra wallop of emotional power through the simple presentation of images and words - images and words that convey powerfully the suffering of the stolen generations in Australia, and their perseverance in the face of overwhelming odds that they continue to battle.Go see this film.   "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The plight of Australia's indigenous people is shown through the struggle of three sisters, lead by the clever and capable Molly Craig.The cinematography and musical score add layers of depth to an already powerful true and tragic story. I doubt I could run out of good things to say about this film.The suffering of Molly Craig and her sisters are but one example of a long history of racism, persecution and cultural annihilation enthusiastically practised by the British Empire. Nineteenth century English scholars believed different ethnic groups had varying levels of average intelligence; the Australian Aborigine was thought to be little more intelligent than apes while the English were unsurprisingly purported to be geniuses. Mr. Neville was not devising his own theories, but rather drawing on a longstanding British tradition. "},{"Title":"Rabbit-Proof Fence","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a good drama about two (well a third briefly as well) who go on a tremendous and a nearly fatal journey across a country to reach their homes, based on a true story. Basically three black girls are taken away from their poor (and to the orphanage unfit) mother to the far, far away orphanage. They become used to it for a little while, but soon enough they plan and carry out their escape. They are now facing a long journey across the country to return home to their mother. Unfortunately along the way they do leave clues, the biggest one being that they are using the road nearest to the Rabbit-Proof Fence, hence the title. The orphanage do catch one of the girls, but the others get away and make it to their home. I did not know anyone in this (although that doesn't matter), except of course scene stealing Kenneth Branagh as A.O. Neville. Branagh was number 25 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 6 on Britain's Finest Actors. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Peter Gabriel. Good! "},{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Very good acting from the children. Characterisation very shallow. The 1200 mile walk to get home to Mummy was not developed. For a film concerning the theft of children from home and their subsequent struggle to escape and return, it is remarkably short of heart and feeling until the end. The end sequence showing the real people concerned was moving. This film could have been much better with a different director and more running time.Overall....wait until it hits TV. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Video clip","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  100% formulaic modern filmmaking with no vision and no storytelling interest whatsoever. High production values, though, and top-notch camera work and cinematography.This is once again a giant video-clip, relying only on beautiful images and a background musical syrup, with a moving story which is sadly reduced to an excuse to produce an empty and potentially mass-appealing cinematic hull. Just to be sure, they used the LOTR-Jackson visual approach... ah ah.Any real emotion, any real drama is wiped out, drowned into the linear, clean, comfortable, morphin-like images and sound. World music MTV video-clip. Peter Gabriel should be ashamed to join the gang.This over-aesthetic, over-idealized and utterly boring filmmaking seems to be highly appreciated. This comes as no surprise to me. With people fed with TV commercials and fake art, what would you expect? Real drama? Real questions? Really moving stories? Naaaaah. THEY DON'T MAKE ENOUGH SALES THEY GET PEOPLE UPSET. So feed them SUGAR. The sweeter, the better. Simple, effective, profitable. The public even has a little extra good conscience for viewing a humanist movie.The technical staff is bloody competent, though, some shots are magnificent. I can see some really interesting people were involved. Too bad that more and more competent people get corrupted by those cynical executives. "},{"Title":"eye-opening social drama","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  `Rabbit-Proof Fence' provides a thrilling adventure tale, a fascinating historical document, and a stirring tribute to the strength and resiliency of the human spirit &#150; all for the price of a single admission ticket (or rental fee).  This true-life story is a classic case of racist imperialism run amuck.  As late as 1970, the white government in Australia believed it had solved the `problem' of what to do with all the half-caste children populating the country (a half-caste is the product of one parent who is white and the other aborigine).  The solution the leaders came up with was to simply take the children away from their parents, move the youngsters into government-run `schools,' then `ease' their way into the white population and culture.  The hope was that, through education and interbreeding, the aborigines would eventually be subsumed completely by the white race.  The most maddening and amazing aspect of this story is the fact that many of the people in charge of this policy genuinely believed that what they were doing was right, that they were actually enlightening the aborigines, improving their lot in life and rescuing them from a life of stone-aged hardship and ignorance &#150; if only the natives could be made to see it for themselves!  It didn't seem to matter to these authorities that, in their efforts, they were violating the very foundation upon which civilized society is based the sacred bond of the family.   Yet through the outrage of those characters who refuse to give into this notion, the film taps into that desire common to each and every one of us  to be who we are and not what other people think we should be.The story takes place in 1931 when three young girls are ripped away from their homes and families and placed into a `training camp' run by the government.  Molly is the oldest of the three, a sensitive but fiery girl of twelve who decides to break out of their prison and lead her cousin and little sister across 1500 miles of scorching desert back to their native home.  Young Everlyn Sampi gives a stunning performance as Molly, a wide-eyed youngster driven by strength and determination to rescue the three of them from this gross miscarriage of justice.  Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan do an equally beautiful job as her erstwhile mates who face a task far more daunting than most of us will ever have to confront.  Kenneth Branagh, in a relatively small but pivotal role as the government official in charge of all the nation's half-castes, manages to bring a touch of humanity to a character who could easily have slipped over into unmitigated villainy in the wrong actor's hands.  In a strange way, Branagh makes us see this character less as an odious creature and more as a misguided product of his culture, upbringing and time.Featuring expert direction by Philip Noyce and haunting music by Peter Gabriel, `Rabbit-Proof Fence' serves the same kind of salutary purpose for the present day Australians that a movie like `One Potato, Two Potato' (also about the problems faced by mixed race children) did for Americans in the 1960's.  `Rabbit-Proof Fence' provides Aussies with a chance to confront and repudiate a disreputable chapter in their recent past - something movies have proven very effective at doing in many different parts of the world.  "}{"Title":"This one will quietly rip your heart out.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a true story of how three little girls taken from theirAboriginal homes in 1931 by the Australian government to betrained in domestic duties before being sent to work for whitefamilies, risk their lives to escape their Dickensian nightmare andmake the 1200 mile trek back to their home.  Phillip Noyce deftly allows the landscape and his leadingnon-actresses to convey this horror story to its greatest effect.  Iwept openly for both joy and outrage.  This is, indeed, anembarrassment to the Australian government that has neverapologized to the generations of  lost children and their families forits official stance on biracial peoples, a position that held firmwhite supremecist beliefs through 1971.  Even to this day, the Ozgovernment would rather ignore it in hopes of it simply going away. Fortunately, Noyce makes the smarter choice of showing that notall whites are evil, and not all blacks are innocent.  KennethBranaugh seems to be making a career out of convincinglyportraying the worst kind of evil person - the kind who fully believethe evil they are doing is for the greater good.  It does it well and, inthis case, with nary a hint of a 'twirling mustache' (as one reviewerinaccurately stated).I highly recommend this for viewing by all audiences.  School agedkids say, 10 and older, should be able to watch this with theirparents and/or teachers with an open dialogue afterward.   "},{"Title":"a most moving story","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  beautifully filmed, it transports you in the scene feeling totally at one with it.  There is no awareness of directing or acting; it is all so natural.  Athough not Australian, I left the cinema with a deep sense of shame for all the atrocities that have been perpetrated on humanity in all ages in the name of justice/righteousness. "},{"Title":"Should have been longer","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film a couple of days ago and whilst I enjoyed it, the cinematography in particular, I felt that Phillip Noyce wasted an  opportunity to make a far more epic picture. I wondered before I went to see it how a 1200 mile journey could be squeezed in to such a short film. I felt as if they didn't focus enough on the struggle of the girls as they followed the fence north, back to their homeland. It's not very often I want a film to be longer but I think Rabbit Proof Fence should have  been at least an hour more in duration so we could have had detail on how the girls survived (it seemed to me as if they walked the 1200 miles eating 3 bread buns, a birds egg and a mouthful of water).Overall it was a beautifully filmed piece of work which could have been so much better if more depth had been given to the story. "},{"Title":"A tale of courage well told","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I approached this film with a bit of trepidation, considering the hype of the films release. I'm a bit scepitcal of films that deal with issues of a political nature. Sometimes the reviews can be coloured by the reviewers leanings, especially when dealing with such a 'hot' political issue as the Stolen Generations. I needn't have worried, this is a beautiful film. Noyce had the problem of presenting the story without going over the top with sentimentality. His biggest coup was selecting 3 unknown aboriginal girls to play the leads. Coming from the 'bush' these girls approached their work in a way that , I believe, could not be achieved using city based kids, e.g. the subtle use of hand signals instead of words & the ease of using traditional language. Also Noyce was able to avoid the traditional Aussie film cliche, gratuitous shots of kangaroos & emus.The film score using Peter Gabriel was an interesting choice. Gabriel gives the film the quality that is sometimes lacking in many Australian films. Although I suspect Gabriel got his inspiration from Robbie Robertsons' - 'Music For The Native American' album, which I personally love.So if you want to watch a movie which is thought provoking, beautifully shot, well acted & avoids most Aussie cliches, give Rabbit-Proof Fence a viewing ..... you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"I saw the film yesterday and was so impressed by it's power","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Possibly the greatness of this film is it's apparent simplicity.It's not a blockbuster with a complex story,it's not a showcase of Hollywood stars, it's not a production that rests on great acting skills!The natural quality of the child actors guided by a great director and captured by excellent cinematography are the key factors.The supporting actors are so good especially David Gulpili,andthe whole production sits on the best piece of sound design that I have ever witnessed when added to the scoring.I left the cinema overwhelmed by a simple story of great emotion, and at the same time I felt astonished and in awe of the film making process that can produce such a giant of a film that many larger productions never attain.Mike Westgate - Production Sound Mixer  "},{"Title":"Simple story, powerfully told","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  (6/10)Simple drama set in Australia where, until not that long ago, mulatto children could be forcibly abducted by the authorities (with the best of intentions) and re-settled in white families away from the Aborigine community. The 'fence' is the fence that was erected to keep the rabbit plague at bay; it is used as a landmark to guide two young girls who escape and make their way on the harrowing journey back from forced adoption.  "},{"Title":"A stunning and powerful film of love, hope and endeavour","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Three small girls escape the Moore River Training School and journey towards home and culture against a bureaucracy intent on removing aboriginality from Australia, and against a vast and ancient landscape. Along the way we and they find that help crosses all boundaries of race and that human endeavour and love are universal.The girls meet good and bad along their journey, from both blacks and whites. It is a very human film, which makes the story stronger. You feel for the people on the screen.The politics and trauma of the Stolen Generations in Australia are brought to life by all involved in this film by Phil Noyce. The three young girls (Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan) carry the story and our hearts through their journey. The adult actors around them all create real characters, from distraught mother (Ningali Lawford) to abused servant girl (Deborah Mailman) who perhaps presages the future of the three escapees.David Gulpilil (Moodoo), in an almost wordless role provides an immensely strong and moving characterisation as the tracker sent to recapture the girls, who yet seems at times to be an admiring conspirator. He tells his story in the smallest of movements, yet tells it clearly.A O Neville, Protector of the Aboriginals, (Kenneth Branagh)is called Mr Devil by the kids in the Moore River Training School, but he is not portrayed as a devil. Branagh does a fine job of showing the well meaning but horribly wrong justification that drove the policy of removing half-caste children from their full-blooded parents (almost always the mother) to both assimilate the children into the overall white population and to train them as domestic servants or farm hands. For another possible outcome of this policy, see The Chant of Jimmy Blacksmith.Rabbit Proof Fence is a wonderfully told, gorgeously filmed and strongly acted story that should also resonate in Canada and the US, which also had similar policies towards their indigenous inhabitants. But regardless of where you see it, you'll never forget it. "},{"Title":"The Rabbit-Proof Fence less traveled...","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is a bit of a conundrum. Upon watching this film, I was immediately taken aback with the steady use of widescreen cinematography, which graciously captured the beauty of Australia, despite the racist backgrounds. I was pleasantly surprised by the ending, without giving too much away; I was unaware of the non-fiction elements surrounding these events. Rabbit-Proof Fence equally provided an unknown chapter of Australia's history, while also being an emotional challenge from start to finish. With such powerful, and compelling, arguments for this film, why was there a conundrum? With such strong, documentary-like features, one could expect this to be a brilliant cinematic entry, yet what was troublesome, was that Rabbit-Proof Fence was only about average amongst films of this nature. From a historical standpoint, it provided a new chapter unbeknownst to me concerning the racism, or eradication of the Aborigines race from society, but the ultimate pitfall of this film is the lack of depth in a PG rating. Not that tortured children need to run the gamut of every historical film, but there was nothing (sans perhaps one scene) that demonstrated to me that these refugees were struggling in any way. From the moment of escape until the emotional ending, not one time did I feel that these children were in danger; every scene possible was of them receiving help from either other Aborigines or from native Australians. When these three girls made their presence known on screen, we were at a happy moment &#x96; nowhere within the 900 miles did we see famine, fatigue, or even pain. One could argue that the collapse in the desert is one of them, but it doesn't arrive until the end of the feature. Up until that point, we are left to assume that this is a simplistic walk and that any cuts found upon their legs were cautiously placed on from a make-up department head on the edge of the framed shot.I do not want to seem unsympathetic to the plight that these young girls took, it was not only a message to the Aborigines people, but also deflated the power of the Chief Protector (played by Kenneth Branagh &#x96; oddly, miscast in this feature). This film was a struggle, it was emotionally draining to watch these girls desire nothing more than to just go home &#x96; but where Rabbit-Proof Fence fails is the lacking realism. The reality that these girls made this trek is real, the struggles and hardships of what was happening in Australia during this time is real, the help seen from within &#x96; both from locals and other Aborigines &#x96; was very real, but the physical journey seemed too glossed to truly find yourself lost within these events. When the girls are walking, their hair remains in place, they never change weight, and there seems to be no horrifying event happen to them (i.e. bones broken, animal attacks, or even Mother Nature). It seemed perfect, and that is what irked me about this film, the images of hope outweighed the images of struggle. Director Noyce did not give us a balance, thus never quite reaching that true emotional punch at the end.Secondly, the concept of the Rabbit-Proof Fence was surprising, I had no notion that this even existed, and after watching this film I wanted to know more. This was another pitfall to this film. Noyce should have given us, either in words or images, a bit of a history of the fence, and what it represented. The symbolism throughout the film became apparent, but knowing more about this fence would have only strengthened the cause. Finally, did anyone else wish that we could spend more time with the reconstruction camps and not with Branagh? Again, not knowing enough about these camps, I wished to see what the religion was doing to these children. I feel like we didn't get enough of this to fully see the horrors that were happening. We heard Branagh's speech about why these were created, but it would have been interesting to hear it from the women of the robe's mouths. There needed to be more of an emotional strain when these children ran away, I wanted to see that they desired to escape the teachings, not just go visit their boyfriends.With that said, everything else that Noyce did worked perfectly. The score by Peter Gabriel was fantastic, adding to the sounds of the Aborigines. The cinematography was perfect. The widescreen shots, seen on a projector screen, were breathtaking as we traveled along the outback. Rabbit-Proof Fence was a decent film. It was a great history lesson, and compelled me to learn more about a country I hardly think about in my day-to-day life. My biggest issue with this film was the lack of realism surrounding the girls' journey. I wanted more emotion, more hardship, more struggle &#x96; the lack of such made me feel like I, a average guy could make this journey.Grade ** ½ out of ***** "},{"Title":"Life Threateningly Bad.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I cannot understand the fuss about this film. According to main Aussie critics, this film was raved about like it was something great. In fact it is exactly the opposite. This film is so boring, so unbelievably boring that had it had a longer run time, then it would literally kill one with boredom. There is absolutely nothing good at all about this film. There is no acting. There is no plot. There is no connection. There is no direction. Hello, these are the things that you need for a film, definitely many problems here. Anyone who thinks that this film is worth 5 stars or 10 stars needs to have a very very long hard look at themselves. For a much better film dealing with Aboriginal issues, I recommend The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith any day over this. "},{"Title":"Triumphant and heartbreaking","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** This is a beautifully crafted film about three young girls stripped from their families in 1930's Australia as part of a program to modernize aboriginal populations. Now called the stolen generation, these children and their families were subjected to a policy that was unimaginable in its cruelty. Note- You MUST see the making of the film documentary as part of the special features. It is an excellent examination of the film making process, and the challenges of working with amateur child actors. But the most moving part of the documentary was the filming of the scene where the girls were taken from their families. The pain the actors were feeling was completely real, as this was their shared history, and they were completely in the moment. I was overwhelmed by it, even more so than when I watched the scene from the movie itself. The images of the actors doubled up in anguish after the filming is haunting. "}{"Title":"Worthwhile exposé of Australian cultural apartheid, but hard to watch or enjoy.","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In the Western Australia of 1931 the Government takes it upon itself to keep the black and white population apart and to do this needs to breed half-cast children with white partners in order to breed the black out of them. To make this even more cruel they are shipped thousands of miles from home and their parents to what is, essentially, a concentration camp.The history of Australia has many dark secrets and out-and-out racism is one those dark and dirty secrets. For most of its history is actively banned non-whites from emigrating to Australia and openly disapproved of mixed marriages between those legally there. Amazingly there are still some that want to see a return to judging people on the colour of their skin!While this film introduces this shocking fact to us, the wider general public, I am not sure there is a great feature film in it. Simply learning the basic facts is welcome, but doing anything interesting with it would be a miracle.Here we focus on the true story of three young relatives who run away from their forced environment and try and make their way home via the helping Rabbit Proof Fence. The massive manmade construction that was introduced to keep rabbits off prime farmland.(The while settlers introduced the pesky rabbits in the first place!)While everything is well enough done, children walking 1,500 miles across Australia (without complaint) doesn't make for great cinema. It does make for some great cinematography though.Along the road some people help, some people don't. The native tracker seems only half interested in finding them and they have small adventures along the way. But, having said that, the whole thing is thin and one note.While cute, the three aborigine children don't have a lot of interesting things to say, but why should they? They are children. I give a nod to the real Molly, Daisy and Grace - they had a hard life thanks to white society and its unfeeling attitudes.While it might seem cocky to suggest how other people's films should go, this would have been better if it had taken on a range of aborigine experiences with white settlers and how they had their own country taken away from them.This film tells one tale and, although shocking , doesn't have enough meat-on-the-bone it to carry me for 94 minutes. I am glad I saw this film and was further educated about racism and racists, but I found it a bit of a chore at times and that - in turn - made me feel bad about myself. "},{"Title":"What a Grand Movie!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After viewing this movie and watching a film about the making of it, I am both amazed and, well, just plain amazed that this movie was so good. The three young girls who starred in the movie were great. I watched the movie the first time without knowing the story behind these young actresses. Now that I know all three of them were total amateurs at the beginning of the movie makes me appreciate the work they did even more. The unbelievable cinematography just added to all of this and actually made me long to visit Australia one day before I die. This is a movie the whole family can enjoy. DO NOT MISS IT! "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times now - most recently on DVD - a Special Edition 2 CD set - and the thing still brings me to tears...The anguish of losing a child is something that no parent should ever have to know, but these kids were so strong and determined - they didn't give up trying to get back home. To know that Molly was taken away AGAIN and made the journey back AGAIN a few years later is a story in itself...Aussie knowhow really brought this story to life - Philip is a legend - and the girls were incredible in portraying the REAL Molly, Gracie and Daisy. Following The Rabbit Proof Fence shows the process behind the film - and Philip should be very proud of his efforts to make sure everything was shown exactly how things were done during the years of The Stolen Generation.I dedicate these comments to my beautiful sister, who was taken away from our mother in 1972, and found us in 1996... I love you Kylie!!! "},{"Title":"Beginning is fooling...","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw the first five minutes or so of this movie, thought it was all going to be subtitled and turned it to something else right away.  Then later on I flipped by it yet again, and stopped to see what it was really about.I was surprised to even hear it was a true story.  I had never heard of such a thing before.  I knew of the widely popularsized subject of happenings w/ the slaves and jews for a very long time (most of my adult life).  But this was new to to, shocking... saddening.It was full of suspence and just watching it and knowing of the struggle that these three girls were going to have to enjure in this movie was incredable.  I can only imagin of someone so strong willed and fighting 'tooth and nail' for what they believe is the right thing.After viewing this movie I went straight to the internet to learn more, it made sparks go off in my mind and I was genuinely curious and yet sickened at the same time.  I cant believe that these's things were going on, it was hannous.  I actually found a website where you can sign up for a potition or an official apology for this cause.  I wish I could post the site but I think its against the guildlines of this site.But I encourage you to search the internet for Stolen Generations there is so much information at your complete fingertips,  and I hope everyone watches this movie, it was a 'great' movie, in my opinion.Thank You,Khrissy* "},{"Title":"Good Intentions can't suppress Dignity and Love","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the best examples I've seen of what damage a dominant culture can wreak on those whom it considers to be culturally superior to. Spare a thought for those families that were torn apart by the Good Intentions of the settlers. Kenneth Branagh plays his role in a very restrained manner, making contradictory pronouncements in his belief that the natives of Australians do not know how to survive there, and need training in his camps before going into what was effectively slavery. The 3 girls, especially the actress playing Molly, are full of courage and hope and no little wit, and long before the end you'll be rooting for them. If you are unmoved by this true-life tale, check you heart is still beating. Wonderful "},{"Title":"It's wonderful","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" For quite some time Rabbit-Proof Fence has been one of the (many) movies on my list of films that I definitely wanted to see. Today, when it was shown on television, I finally got the chance to see it and I didn't have to think twice. But somehow I was a bit reluctant about it as well. Wouldn't it be a disappointment because I expected just too much of it? Wouldn't it be incredibly corny, like so many of today's drama's are? Well, I can assure you, those questions vanished as quickly as snow under the burning Australian sun.The movie tells the true story of three little girls - Molly, Daisy, and Grace (two sisters and their cousin) - who are taken away from their mothers just because they are the children from an Aboriginal mother and a white father. It's a government policy to take this kind of children and to send them away about 1,500 miles 'to save them from themselves'. They are brought together in some kind of camp, where the whitest of them are allowed to go to school and the darkest among them are prepared for a life as a servant. The three girls almost immediately escape in order to find their mothers. But all odds are against them. The camp has one of the best trackers who is always able to find the runaway children, the landscape is unforgiving, they know no-one during their trip and can't trust any of the ones they meet, the entire police corps is looking for them,... But the girls are determined and will try their best to find the fence that divided the country in two and that will lead them home...Even though I had some (smaller) doubts before watching this movie, I can't think of any negative point after watching it. This was an amazing movie, not only because it tells a true story without being corny or trying too hard to make it all look better than it all was. No, this is a movie that is so subtle and powerful that it is almost impossible not to like it. As soon as I saw those three little girls leave on their journey, I couldn't help hoping for a happy end, that despite all the difficulties, they would be able to make it. I really felt connected with the characters in this movie and that's something I don't always find in other drama's. Also amazing is the acting, especially from the three girls. Even though they didn't have any experience, Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury as well as Laura Monaghan did a terrific job in this movie. They are the main attraction and perhaps the best reason why you should give this movie a try. I don't know if they will ever play in another movie, but if they do, I sure hope to see it. Also very good were Kenneth Branagh, David Gulpilil,... Together with the girls, they made this movie really work.In the end this is a very powerful movie that could easily have gone wrong, but that certainly hasn't. I'm sure that there are quite a lot of people that will not like this movie. Some aren't able to deal with the past of their own country (whether they are Australian or British doesn't matter this time), others can't cope with a movie in which these girls aren't chased with fast cars and attacked with a couple of hydrogen bombs and fighter jets. Personally I'm a fan of movies in which the story is still important and in which it's still the acting that supports that story, rather than the special effects. I give this movie at least an 8.5/10. It's wonderful. "},{"Title":"Lines on a Map Represent So Much More in Reality.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Another emotional powerhouse from the excellent cinematic year of 2002 has three Aboriginal girls (Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan) being taken from their home to a concentration camp in 1931 Australia. New governmental director Kenneth Branagh (in one of his finer roles) is the one in charge of bringing Half-Castes (people of mixed Aboriginal descent) to a place where they can be trained as servants. Naturally in several generations, if all goes as planned, the race of people would be bred out of existence. The trio decide that they will run away from their imprisonment and try to make a trek over 1500 miles of some of the roughest areas on the continent (the Outback being a major obstacle) to get back to their rightful home with the help of following the titled entity. Sampi is the one who leads the youngsters and tries to keep them one step away from a mysterious Aboriginal tracker (a dark and cold performance from David Gulpilil). All this is based on a true story and two of the young girls are shown through real footage as they live today (now being elderly and weathered women). Rabbit-Proof Fence tells a part of contemporary history that most would like to forget. A very dark part of Australian history is shown here as similar concentration camps were around as late as 1970. It is very hard to believe that something as terrible and awful as this could last well into the late-20th Century. Branagh's character is of the belief that the nation's job is to save the Aboriginal people from themselves (an assumption that has no basis whatsoever). Phillip Noyce's direction is very subtle and highly effective. Branagh ends up dominating in his little screen-time and the three youngsters carry the show with their ability to generate fear and intense fatigue. They are all so natural and it makes the production that much more impressive. Never a big enough box office success to really endear it to the vast viewing public, Rabbit-Proof Fence was hailed from most every area by the critics. However it somehow got lost in the shuffle by the Academy come Oscar time. Still a brilliant and noble work by all involved. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Great and fairly moving story about life as a half-caste","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is a good movie. It is about three half-castes (Half-castes are half-white and half-black people.) who are stolen from their home and taken to a camp. The owner of the camp is named Mr. Neville. (He is called Mr. Devil by the half-castes.) He tries to eliminate the half-caste blood the same way one might breed a dog.Here's a formula (50b + 50w) = (50w- Xb) = less than the original.Another way of putting it is that if a half-caste has a child with a pure white man, then the next generation will be whiter.Any sane person would want is to be back home, away from the camp. But, if they are found by the tracker, the three half-castes will be put in the boob. (Think of it as a time-out. A really horrible time-out.) Of course, going hundreds of miles back home, while avoiding the tracker is not going to be walk in the park.Rabbit-Proof Fence is full of drama and adventure, though it has more adventure than drama. But, you must admit, it is a very good film, that achieves its drama by showing the horrors of the children8/10 "},{"Title":"Moving Tribute to Young Rebels Against Cultural Genocide","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rabbit-Proof Fence is a deceptively simple, moving tribute to plucky girls challenging cultural genocide. Director Philip Noyce tells a horrific story mostly in the extraordinary faces of three half-caste Aborigine children set against the daunting landscape of Australia's Outback.As their nemesis Mr. Devil, played with logically-scary restraint by Kenneth Branagh, finally admires Just because they use Neolithic tools doesn't mean they have Neolithic minds. While Branagh is in effect playing a monster, he's shown in the context of the country's endemic racism for most of the twentieth century, which also compromised other natives.And not all whites are bad, as occasionally those doing a waltzing matilda help the girls, and some of the cops clearly find their capturing mission distasteful (though partly it's their stupidity at dismissing women's business.)The audience held their breath time and time again in suspense for the girls' fate and many cried at the true-story revelations coda. Even with a defective and scratched print, the cinematography was beautiful, and Peter Gabriel's music was both propulsive and haunting.(originally written 1/6/2003) "},{"Title":"Walkabout 2","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this on dvd tonight and to say i was blown away would be an understatement.To be honest i had heard of the title of the movie but it never really got much hype here in the media like lantana got.It's hard to put into words how extraordinary this movie is.It has all the poetic and beautiful cinematography of nicholas roegs walkabout but viewed from the aboriginal perspective.The indigenous australian trying to survive against the white invasion instead of the white man trying to survive the outback.It is so fantastic that philip noyce has found 3 unknown girls to play the lead roles but brought in david gumpilil to give it a counterbalance,both the novice and professional aboriginal actors gel perfectly to tell a story that our prime minister and government are still refusing to admit to.In fact kenneth branagh's portrayal of of the white bureaucrat is pretty much dead on where our current govenment now sit on the issue.David has hardly any dialouge but tells so much with his face i think he's like an unrecognised national treasure.For my money both him and mel gibson are in my top 5 australian movies of all time.Ok now i'll give you my top 5 australian movies in order and if you liked the other 4 on my list then you just have to see this wonderful movie cause it's no.1!!!!1.Rabbit proof fence. 2.Gallipoli 3.Picnic at hanging rock 4.Walkabout 5.Mad max(the road warrior) "}{"Title":"Four star depiction of the Australian outback...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I can remember when I first saw Walkabout so many years ago, and how it completely took me out of the world I lived in and put me somewhere completely different.  I can also remember the effect The Last Wave had on me, with only it perifery depiction of aborigines and their dream worlds that they live in.  It's not until I caught a screening of this film at the Film Market in LA this past month have I really felt anyone has depicted these proud, mysterious, elegiac people before.  From the moment the grandmother takes rock to her own head to grieve for the loss of her granddaughter, and I heard the gasps of everyone in the audience, did I realize I was going to finally get a glimpse into this world.  The three child actresses are amazing and touching, and haunt me still.  The face of the tracker alone is reason to see this film, which seems to have the history of his people etched on it. It's amazing this story has never been told before, since it happened, and continued to happen all the way into the 1970's in Australia.  The director did a terrific job of putting me in the hearts and minds of these people, even the ones who thought they were doing something good to help the 'half breeds' in the outback - and the cinematography by Christopher Doyle is breath-taking. I've only been to Australia once, and the only aborigine I saw was rocking slowly on a bench in an underground railway - in some kind of trance, and suddenly it occurred to me that he was in another world, unlike what I was seeing.  This film brought that moment back to me, as I rooted for, was on the edge of my seat for, and ultimately wiped out by this story of three girls wrenched from their homes and families, and despite all odds, and an unbelievably difficult journey, made their way back to their home.  Just an amazing achievement. Also, the first film that I saw about Australia was back in the 70's, called Newsfront, another film by the same director - it seems like this story brings him full circle back into the Aussie milieu.  I'll be surprised if it doesn't win many film festival awards. "},{"Title":"Highly educational, for intelligent audiences only; not for the masses","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" absolutely fantastic.certainly difficult to watch, but still very beautiful. uplifting, and probably somewhat comforting for those people that find themselves, on a daily basis or otherwise, far away from home.in terms of form, there were several scenes that were breathtaking, lovely. the topic of cultural integration, in particular, integrating people of certain ethnic minority groups into the larger mainstream and more dominant society is a sensitive issue, one that is not exclusive only to the Australian government and aborigines (but also say, to the Canadian government and native innuits or eskimo peoples).certainly the dark side of recent history is portrayed - that is, the difficult-to-comprehend mood of the European mind to conquer, control and colonize the foreigner, to make them more civilized. in this regard, the theme of the film (based on, pressumably, a splendid book), is quite comparable to the theme of Joseph Conrad's heart of darkness, a very respectable piece of work that questions the nature of the savage (particularly in the 'white man', as opposed to the 'uncivilzed man' that the white man tries to conquer in a region popularly interpreted as Africa), amongst other things.a story about courage. a story about discipline. a story about obedience. a story about righteousness. a story about perseverance. a story that, for those of you that think life is tough, will make you think at least twice.all in all, certainly a very good use of time. but again, for intelligent audiences only, not for the masses. "},{"Title":"Bingo Goes Home","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.What is it about films set in Australia that allows even good filmmakers to think that they can  get away with tripe? Here we have at root the familiar story, usually of a wily pet who evades  huge odds, great distance and evil captors to return home. In this case we get some pleasant  enough children, a slight brush of mysticism in the air and wrapped in a morality play about  blind racism.What an interesting film this could have been. Even the juvenile `Walkabout' was better./Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Not every independent movie is excellent","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If a movie has a tribe or race related topic, and is made by and independent group of filmmakers, everyone tends to find it okay before they even have seen the movie. Rabbit-Proof Fence is loved by many lowbudget movie fans, but has all the usual suspects when in it comes to story telling. 3 aboriginal girls are taken by the whites from their familly and brought to a reform school. They deside to try to return to their mothers, and flee from the school (wich is more like a prison than a school). They journey all across the Australian wild, hunted by a tracker and the white police. The experiencend moviemaniac can already tell the story from here. You know who's going to make it, what is going to happend, etc,etc. Even a dramatic slowmotion follows at the end. Nothing to surprise an audiende here. A story that needed to be told, but not in such a dull and stereotype way. "},{"Title":"Little known, less told","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A long swept under the rug piece of history. I already knew the atrocities committed by the Anglos in Australia against the Aborigines but it was tremendously satisfying to see it on film. There is a very similar story yet to be told in North America regarding child-theft, abuse, and attempted brain-washing by Anglo-European usurpers. The horrible boarding schools where Native American children were subjected to beatings for speaking their languages; sexual and physical abuse, and on an on.The unrelenting shockingness of invaders/conquerors thinking they have some right to destroy a people, a culture, a continent, families, individuals... Watching their hubristic justification of their inhumanity is nauseating. Some people should be trembling at the day of reckoning by God, Karma, and the Universal Law of Return As you have done unto others, so shall it be done unto You AND your progeny, even unto your 10th generation!When I was in college, during a class on indigenous peoples that included the Aborigines, the Prof accounted for their physical appearance (blond children born to 'blacks' as some kind of weird genetic anomaly). Indeed! It's called deliberate, systematic RAPE. Was he a complete FOOL? Had he done his research? Or was he just another promulgator of the official Party Line? "},{"Title":"Unfair","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" What attracted me in this film was how the children were treated unfairly..simply because they were not viewed by some as being less than human. This sort of idea, known then as Eugenics, remains with us today in the form of legalized abortion..both of which find their justification in the pseudoscience known as evolution. These little children were as much human as anyone on the planet but because particular individuals had bought into the idea of racial superiority propagated by Charles Darwin and others, the kids were subjected to unkind treatments. I believe this film, perhaps like Elephant Man as well as Quigley Down Under (also set in Australia), should be seen by today's youth so they may understand that ideas, like evolution, have consequences, the sort of consequences they should work to change. Whenever the opportunities arise, we expect to encourage others to see this worthy motion picture "},{"Title":"Manipulative Sentimental Hollywoodesque Crap","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry, this movie is made with every conscious effort to make the audience sympathize and feeeel for the little girls. Yeah, they've got it tough, no kidding! So why treat the audience as if we're stupid? The bad guys - Kenneth Branagh's character in particular - are demonized blatantly and one-sidedly while the girls get very little dialogue but oh so many shots of their angelic terrorized faces. The movie has no depth. It does not delve into exploring the complex issues of racism and colonialism in Australia, instead it is another generic triumph-over-adversity tale which we have seen depicted onscreen 534,466 times before - true story or not. Yes, the cinematography is beautiful, blah blah blah, the story is still utter crap. "},{"Title":"A work of fiction - nothing more","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Enjoy the film for its cinematic qualities, but always remember that this is pure fiction.  The events depicted never happened. The clever little historical note at the end is nice touch to make audiences think the events depicted actually happened.  The heroine of the film was *not* stolen, but -- as official files reveal -- removed only after fears were raised for her safety and after a nod of approval from her stepfather. The so-called 'Stolen Generations' is an enduring myth of the Australian scene.  The facts are that despite enormous efforts not one single stolen Aborigine has been found, let alone a dozen - or generations. However, it's a heart-rending tale that makes for good press and a good screenplay. Even Roger Ebert fell for it. Ebert could pick that a local film masquerading as history - The Gangs of New York - is fictional, but, not being familiar with foreign parts, accepted this one as completely true. Rating 1 Kleenex. "}]