[{"Title":"A big, fat 'wow'","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"88 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For some, Stephen King is just a mere auteur of horror stories.  If you look closer, you'll see he is much more. Nearly all his stories are melancholic tales about the loss of childhood innocence. With a paranormal twist, but that really isn't the most important. I even think that Hearts in Atlantis would have worked even better, if the whole paranormal thing would have been left out. The most interesting aspects of the story are Bobby Garfield and his relationship with his mother, girlfriend and Ted. Whenever Ted brought up the low-men, my personal interest curve got a bit of a dip, but hey it's a Stephen King movie, I guess we'll have to live with it.As it is, Hearts in Atlantis remains a wonderful film. It's the kind of film where the scenes in the present are filmed in gloomy blue and grey tones, and all the flashbacks get a golden sepia treatment. Sure it's been done before, but rarely have the effects been of such a shattering beauty.Anthony Hopkins, never shy of giving a bombastic performance, is remarkably soft-spoken in this one, though I doubt that he was really interested in this movie. The star of the show, however, is Anton Yelchin as Bobby Garfield. He looks like the young Elijah Wood, with the same angelic blue eyes, and he's truly captivating. He even has genuine chemistry with the girl that plays his love interest. A big fat &#145;wow' is in order here, let's hope he'll get the chance to exploit his talents further.It's a shame this movie failed at the box-office, but then again so did The Shawshank Redemption. So let's all rent/buy this wonderful film, and boost that IMDb score.I gave this one a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The kiss by which all others will be measured...","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"68 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sure to be one of the best-loved films of this fall, Hearts in Atlantis adapted from Stephen King's best seller mines a lot of familiar territory from Stand by Me, but that beloved film is a good model.  In Stand by Me, it was a writer reflecting back on the childhood summer when we found the body, here it's David Morse as a photographer remembering the summer of his eleventh year when Ted the boarder moved upstairs.  Downplaying King's supernatural elements, this film slowly, but surely, builds to an emotional payoff every bit as moving as the end of Rob Reiner's gem.This is a small, gentle film with lots of character development and period atmosphere.  The tech credits such as production design and cinematography are superb and bring to life a time--1960--which, for some of us, was not that long ago.  The child-actors are perfectly cast, and Anthony Hopkins as the mysterious stranger gives one of his best, most-heartfelt performances. (This guy could read USA Today weather forecasts aloud and make them sound like Shakespeare.)  While others may have taken a radically different approach to the material, emphasizing action and suspense, I think screenwriter William (Misery) Goldman and director Scott (Shine, Snow Falling on Cedars) Hicks ultimately hit the right notes.  I will interested in seeing if this decidedly low-key approach strikes a box office chord with moviegoers frazzled by the big, dumb summer action films.  If there's any fairness left in the world it will.  It's that good.  "},{"Title":"Wouldn't've missed a minute of it.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"51 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To many, Stephan King is a well of horror, Lovecraftian chill that creeps upon us in the dead of night. So when his fantasy of insight comes along, they are struck blind, disappointed, let down by the mildness of the tale.Director Hicks, screenplay writer Goldman, and the superlative team of Mr. Hopkins and young Yelchin have brought alive this artist's touch of Mr. King, in a finely crafted, sensitive film that just departs from the four walls of our mundane reality. In many subtle touches throughout the film, we -- even those of us Constant Readers who would read Mr. King's laundry list if he published it -- are guided through Goldman's skillful adaptation of the original novel.Better than the book? Worse? No, this humble viewer will just say that the film can stand on its own, if we are just willing to let our eyes be opened to what can be.  "},{"Title":"An all around great film!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say, they've made another great Stephen King story into another great movie.  Although it doesn't hurt to have the likes of Anthony Hopkins in your film to give it that stature and elegance.  This film is one of those movies where you leave sad, but yet feeling good about everything, not many movies do this, some would include American Beauty and The Green Mile. The film is set in the backdrop of the 1960's where a strange man (Anthony Hopkins) moves into the apartment above a young boy and his mother.  The boy quickly befriends the stranger and soon learns about the man's mysterious gift.  I won't spoil anything for anyone because this is definitely a movie worth seeing and not knowing what happens before you go into it.  Also I recommend reading the book, it is truly one of Stephen King's best. "},{"Title":"The wonders of youth viewed through a prism","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are two distinct dimensions to Stephen King's writing. On the one hand he is most widely known as the horror meister who can churn out novels quicker than most of us can go through toilet paper. Then there is the King who knows when to leave the schlock behind and tell a good, character driven, yarn.This is the King who penned Hearts in Atlantis, along with similar captivating stories turned into film such as Stand By Me, The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.Told in flashback, it is the story of a young boy who is mentored by a psychically gifted border (Hopkins) with a shadowy past who is renting the upstairs room in his mother's house. He instructs the boy to be on the lookout for the low men who are persuing him. It tells the story of lives and loves lost in the fleeting wonder of youth. Filled with metaphor, this is a gem of a film. View it for the acting. View it for the cinematography. View it for the art direction. View it for the directing. But most of all, view it for the wonderful story that it is. It will captivate you and leave you wishing it would go on forever.  "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is an interesting movie. For one, it is based upon a story contained within a book named Hearts in Atlantis by Stephen King. But the story is called Low Men in Yellow Coats and the story Hearts in Atlantis has absolutely no bearing on the  movie at all. It's rather unfortunate actually, that the film makers couldn't find some way to incorporate all five of King's Hearts in Atlantis stories into the movie. But if they had to pick one - which they did, of course - Low Men in Yellow Coats is an excellent choice. And it makes for an excellent movie, but the book should be required reading. Some of the complaints about the movie have been that the characters are not well developed. Perhaps they are, but as someone who's read the book, my mind filled in any gaps, so I couldn't say. In fact, knowing what was in the story did nothing but  enrich this film. Because the movie was so close to the book, the  background information supplied by King's plot filled in all the places the movie could not or would not go. One bad aspect of the movie version however, is the elimination of all supernatural elements. Instead of making Anthony Hopkins' character a Breaker from the Dark Tower universe King has created, like Brautigan is in the book, he is a psychic sought by the FBI to root out communists (hey, this is 1960 after all). So the string is still intact Of the more than 30 movies based on the work of Stephen King, not a single one even mentions the Dark Tower. How unfortunate. The movie itself is simply wonderful, especially after dealing with two weeks of absolute crap (The Musketeer and Glitter? Hmmm). Anthony Hopkins has the pleasure of two Academy Award-worthy performances in 2001 (I don't care, Hannibal was still an excellent movie). His performance in Hearts is as understated as Hannibal  was... well... Hannibal. He keeps to himself, stays quiet, and when he talks, he is close to divine. Hopkins continues to prove why he is one of the best actors of all time. Anton Yelchin is simply amazing as little Bobby Garfield. He is the second coming of Haley Joel Osment, if not better than he. The plot is good if not great - although with the book already in mind,  it assuredly makes any potential holes disappear - and the character development is superb. And isn't that a wonderful breath of fresh air after a summer's worth of movies that were cool, and some were even good, but overall brainless and similar.For that alone, I give it a 10, even if it is perhaps closer to an 8 or a 9. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A nice study of character...","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King seems to work well with movies.  HEARTS IN ATLANTIS represents the latest adaptation from one of King's novels.  Actually borrowing from two stories, it introduces us to a young boy named Bobby Garfield who seems to be living a semi-normal, although simple life.  His day consists of playing with his two best friends, Sully and Carol.  His relationship with Carol is on the fence of being romantic.  Bobby's widowed mother is too focused on her career to notice what's going on with her son.  A strange man named Ted Brautigan (Hopkins) comes to their small town looking for a place to stay, and finds a vacant room within Bobby's house.  Brautigan almost immediately intrigues Bobby, offering the young boy a job simply reading the newspaper out loud.  As these two bond, Bobby notices his new friend has some strange traits.  Ted fears that mysterious men are looking for him.  It's not long before Bobby realizes that his new friend has some unique capabilities, and begins to understand why others would be looking for him.  In the meantime, Bobby deals with his own desire for a dream bike, his need to protect Carol from neighborhood bullies, and his confusion about his mother's lack of finances despite her fancy dress collection.  No one is perfect in this story, just like in real life.  Even the oddly endearing Brautigan seems reluctant to expose his true roots. HEARTS IN ATLANTIS is a simple tale that offers nothing new to audiences.  It doesn't have the magic exhibited in THE GREEN MILE, or the emotional importance of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, and although it's similar in feel to STAND BY ME, it doesn't seem to match the quaint aspects of that tale either.  Where it succeeds is in it's ability to present the familiar aspects of the youth we've all experienced.  Childhood memories are what make us who we are.  This film helps us to remember those special times.  While not all of us met a Ted Brautigan in our lives, we can all relate to the troubles Bobby faces, or even the victimization Carol endures by bullies.  There are several familiar elements here, and that's why it works.  Hopkins is appealing, as one would expect, but the film as a whole plays out in a very tame fashion.  Scott Hicks (SHINE) has directed HEARTS with simplistic and appropriate fashion.  He never assumes too much from the audience, which is an admirable quality for a director.  What you walk away with is a understanding that youth can define you future, and memories can have a profound effect toward your outlook on life.  Never judge a book by it's cover. "},{"Title":"King, Hopkins Make For Resonant Film","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the many acting skills Anthony Hopkins possesses is the ability to attract and disturb at the same time; he can charm you to no end with sly smiles and unspoken allure. But all the while he's hiding something unsettling that you can't ever quite figure out. In Hearts in Atlantis, the latest of what by now must be a truly massive box set of Stephen King film adaptations, Sir Anthony finds a writer perfectly suited to these unique talents. What we see is a movie eerie and enchanting, both in mood and in style -- a story that holds onto its cards throughout, letting you see each of them slowly, one by one, and only when absolutely necessary. In the end we find we have been held captive by a stunningly memorable and powerful film.The story begins as a retrospective Robert Morse plays the older version of Bobby Garfield, the central character of this reminiscent story. It takes a recent tragedy to send the older Bobby unwittingly in the mind to his days as an 11-year-old in 1960. There we go to a place common to almost all of King's stories rural New England, where Bobby lives with his mother (Hope Davis), and spends his innocent, aimless days with his two friends Sully (Will Rothhaar) and Carol (Mika Boorem). His father died when Bobby was only five, and his mother is so busy hopefully tending to a real estate career that she has little time to tend to her only child. To this point nothing is out of the ordinary; this childhood is deliberately portrayed with hazy, warm undertones, akin to the sense of youth so familiar to many who look back upon it. Fairly early on we meet Ted Brautigan (Hopkins), a boarder who shows up quite suddenly on their porch, his belongings in grocery bags. He is clean, well-spoken, unobtrusive and generally a placid sort. But he is also an instant enigma he is of unknown origin, means, and intent, and Bobby's mother quickly decides this is a man to be viewed with caution. Bobby, on the other hand, innocently curious --and most likely desperate for anything that could spell the boredom of his uneventful summer-- decides this a man worth knowing. They become close, Brautigan dispersing kennels of wisdom and even offering young Bobby a dollar a week and cold root beers to read him the newspaper daily. But Brautigan clearly has a special quality about him he can sense things and see things that are not readily apparent to most others. Bobby seems to have this gift as well, though in a lees pronounced way, and through this they form a bond, one Bobby's mother slowly and begrudgingly affords him. She's suspicious of this man still, while we the viewers begin gradually to glean some of the mysteries of his past. I don't dare say what they are, but they do involve the Low Men, people, Brautigan warns Bobby, who may some day come looking for him. He tells Bobby what signs to look for about town, gently using the boy as a scout of imminent danger. Bobby does not know who they are or what they represent. Neither do we, for a long time, but the key instrument of this story is to make it intentionally vague. We are not to be concerned about these details, but rather to know that Brautigan has experienced them, and will do whatever he can to shield Bobby and his youth from the corrupting darkness looming behind them. Stephen King has been widely read as an author of horror and suspense, but his best works --like this one-- work on a much more insidious level, evoking a sense of foreboding and unknown that manages to inform everything that happens within. The makers of this film find great success emphasizing the shady murkiness of the story, and they still manage to keep things centered. The mysteries of Ted Brautigan find parallels in the wonders of youth Bobby experiences his first kiss, naturally, encounters a menacing bully, and learns to view his mother in evolving ways...grown-up ways. This is really a story of innocence and maturity, of youth's purity and the dangers that lurk at its end. Bobby finds that end to a certain degree, but along the way finds friendship, knowledge, and a sense of the mysteries of adulthood that await him. Ted Brautigan is really more than a friend to Bobby; he is a guide, a protector, and a teacher. These two actors provide real, natural on screen chemistry in this film, and there is one delightful scene early on where Brautigan intensely relives for Bobby a glory day of Chicago Bears football lore. This is an actor who can take any available strengths of writing and magnify them for us viewers who watch him say them aloud. As a result Anthony Hopkins anchors this infectious little film to the ground while still allowing it to soar skyward when needed. "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM!!!!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a great surprise! I never read the Stephen King novel that this film comes from, but as always, King has crafted an intriguing and absorbing story.Anthony Hopkins never disappoints and his performance as Ted Brautigan here is no different. Brautigan lives upstairs from young Bobby Garfield and his widowed mother and a friendship soon develops between Bobby and Ted. Bobby knows that there is something different about Ted, and the bond between them grows when Bobby starts uncovering some of Ted's secrets.  Bobby's father passed away when he was very young and he has no knowledge of who his father was except the word of his neglectful mother that his father was a drunkard and gambler. Bobby, through Ted learns a lot about his father, and more importantly, himself. I don't want to give away too much of the plot of this wonderful movie, especially if like me you have not read the book. This is a thoughtful, insightful, well written and well acted movie and is definitely a part of my own library.Dont miss Hearts in Atlantis.. you will be sorry if you do!! 8/10  "},{"Title":"leaves you feeling that the story was cut short.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having read the short story by Stephen King , the film is fairly true to the book and like the book it leaves you with a feeling of that was good but is that it? I have a theory that when King wrote the story he hoped it would lead to a novel but for some reason or another it was cut short much like the film and book. In the film you are left with no doubt that the Lowmen are real but in the film you never know if it is part of the boy's imagination or if they are police and the old man is on the run from them. The book also focuses on the Supernatural side of the story the film does not and i would suspect makes it feel quite slow for some viewer's. Hopkins is great as usual , as is the boy , Anton Yelchin and the latter has a great career ahead of him. One thing that does come from this is that i usually always enjoy Castle Rock productions is this is no different. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Very Intriguing & Haunting Story","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't care for coming-of-age movies but this is a mixture of that along with a suspenseful story of an older man trying to keep his anonymity. Anthony Hopkins plays the latter and is riveting, as always. His character, Ted Brautigan is not an easy guy to figure out, but he has to be mysterious in order to keep away from the bogey-man bad guys called low men. That sounds goofy but if you watch the film, you know what I mean. The only things I didn't care for are the typical Liberal bias with cheap shots against Richard Nixon, J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI, all bad guys according to all liberal filmmakers. Also, some paranormal baloney was inserted, and wasn't needed.The kids - Anton Yelchin and Mika Bororem - are good, especially Yelchin, who has a far bigger role. It's nice to see a kid (Yelchin's character Bobby Garfield, actually listening to an adult, as he does here.) The romance between the two kids is handled well, not sappy.I very much enjoyed the cinematography. It's a wonderfully rich-colored film with a touch of film noir in spots with the cobbled street shots at night.Finally, this was a film that moved me with it sadness. "},{"Title":"A movie that made me remember","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw Hearts in Atlantis last night, and I have to say that the more I think about it, the more I like it. After it was over, I couldn't help but remember my Atlantis. The town in which I grew up in was certainly one of the best places in world. I lived there from the time I was born, until I was 18. Hearts in Atlantis made me remember what it was like to be a kid, and to really not have a care in the world (except what time all my friends were going to meet to play football or baseball). Of course I understand now that there is much more to life then riding bikes and playing games, but a part of me wishes I could go back, just for one more day. I loved when the Hopkins character explained how when you're a kid a day could last forever, and the place in which you lived seemed almost like a paradise...like Atlantis must have seemed. This movie made me remember my Atlantis, and I am glad that I saw it. "},{"Title":"Odd But Enchanting Adaptation Of One-Fifth Of A Stephen King Book","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Eleven-year-old Bobby Garfield lives in New England in 1960, with his mother and his friends Carol and Sully. Ted Brautigan, a strange old man, moves into the rooms upstairs and the two become good friends, but Bobby soon discovers Ted is on the run from some sinister figures known only as The Low Men ...This is a charming little movie which doesn't really have much of a plot, it's just about a friendship between a boy and an old man. It is extraordinarily rich in character though, and the four leads all step into their roles perfectly. It's also an exquisitely well-made period-piece of the time, by which I mean to say everything looks right - the clothes, the hairstyles, the cars, the furniture and so on - without ever drawing your attention to the fact. It's based on a great book by Stephen King which is really five separate stories with lots of linking themes and characters, all centred around the Vietnam war. The movie is really only the first story in the novel, Low Men In Yellow Coats, so if you want to find out more about Bobby, Carol and Sully, please read the book (though be warned it's not too cheery). Eloquently scripted by William Goldman, and featuring a great atmospheric score by Mychael Danna. Beautifully photographed in Virginia by Piotr Sobocinski, who sadly died not long after its completion. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better, but still outstanding","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing this movie and thinking it sounds like there is a lot more to this story. Little did I know then, that it was adapted from a book, a book which is now one of my favorites. The book delved so much deeper into Ted Brautigan and anyone who is a fan of King's Dark Tower series will appreciate the strong connection. But that whole connection was taken out of the movie. Maybe this would have added too much confusion, but I think it would have done a much better explaining Ted's powers, and his origin. The book is really collection of related stories and the movie only told the first and the last story. If there were to be a remake it would have to be much longer or split into two parts, but the plot would be stronger for it.Other than that the movie is wonderful. The acting is superb as it usually is with Anthony Hopkins. If I hadn't read the book I would have much less to criticize, but I'm still glad I did. "},{"Title":"I guess Americans like this sort of thing","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One thing you generally don't expect of a Stephen King adaptation is schmaltz. The same goes for William Goldman, a hard, cynical bastard if ever there was one. So why is this movie dripping in so much sentimental goo that it feels like an explosion at a candy floss factory? It doesn't help that there isn't much plot to go around. Boy meets weird old lodger, weird old lodger turns out to be wanted by... well, some bunch of nasties, anyway, for some reason. Several baddies get the old man, another of them rapes the boy's mother. And all this somehow helps the kid grow up - which makes everything all right, I guess.Let's say one thing straight out Scott Hicks is a great man when it comes to composing a shot. Some of the scenes here are pure artistry, and they look beautiful. And there are good moments, too, most notably the scene with Alan Tudyk's 3-card monte man, and the opening scenes with David Morse. Those scenes set me up for thinking that this film was going to be a near-classic, but as soon as Morse goes away, the whole thing doesn't so much slide downhill as crash off a cliff. It starts with a couple of scenes of kids playing in an idyllic parkland setting, then a scene with Hannibal Lecter, than a couple more scenes of the kids playing, then a couple more, until you're just about screaming at the director to get on with it, already.A lot of the problems centre around Anthony Hopkins. Oh, he has his moments - the football story was outstanding, and he fills the character well. But he can't seem to get the accent right, or even know which accent he's attempting for most of the movie. Worse still, just about half his dialogue consists of wise-old-man homilies that make him sound like a Welsh version of Yoda. The other performances are actually worse, and I don't take any joy in saying that the kids simply weren't up to the demands of their roles. Twenty years ago we had another King adaptation called Stand By Me, with four child actors who gave probably the best performances of that year. This year... well, these kids ain't in that class, and that's a shame.Then there are some startling plot holes. Hopkins, we are told, can foresee events by touching people. So how come he doesn't foresee that his landlady is going to get assaulted by her sleazy date, when I could predict that without any psychic powers? Or is it that he does foresee it, and just doesn't care? Why does Bobby's mother overreact to such an absurd extent when she finds Hopkins curing the little girl? Why doesn't the girl stick up for Hopkins? Why, for that matter, are we led to believe that she is on the verge of death when it turns out she's got nothing worse than a broken arm? Hopkins calls her a lion-heart, but the way she was screaming and hollering, I assumed she must have a fractured skull or maybe a tree-branch sticking out of her guts. And if it was her ARM that was broken, how come she couldn't walk away from the scene of her attack, but had to get Bobby to carry her? The scene was written to be a major crisis, so everyone had to play it as though it was, even though her injury was actually pretty minor - the result was that everyone ended up looking like ridiculous drama queens.That sounds picky, I know, but I'm not even asking for the movie to make sense. I just want characters that behave in realistic, human ways, instead of like cyphers written by someone who doesn't know how real people behave. William Goldman can do better than this. In fact, everyone involved can do better.Update I actually couldn't believe that Stephen King would write anything as gooey as this, so I went out and bought the book. And you know what? He didn't write anything as gooey as this. The book of Hearts in Atlantis is a strange, lyrical and tragic story (or set of stories - it's kinda complicated) - which carries a stark message about the way the opportunities of the Sixties were thrown away in a haze of drugs and consumer durables. The book is great, unsettling stuff. How anyone got from that to this mush of a film is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Delightful and nostalgic","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film made me think of films like Stand By Me and My Girl. It was a quiet film, rather a relief from the raucous, action-filled movies of today or the silly fluff of many others. A wonderful exploration the a child growing up, his friendships, first love and challenges he faces. The boys performance was very believable, and Sir Anthony Hopkins, as always, is wonderful. My husband and I thoroughly enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"I absolutely hate it","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's one of the worst adaptations I have ever seen in my life, having read the short story, which is delightful and brilliant, I must say that why they went on to twist and bend it in such a horrid way is beyond me. When the name Anthony Hopkins appeared it made me think that we had a great film ahead of us, since he takes on such good characters and movies all in all, but I guess he must have not read the book first... and apparently neither did Scott Hicks nor William Goldman, or perhaps they just didn't understand it. This movie completely fell short of my expectations, it felt like a waste of time and money. What a pity! "},{"Title":"Loved it every time I've watched it","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's been many years now but every once in a while I go through this story/movie again, bringing up the same emotions and fondness of it. This movie is nothing spectacular, not a major hit by any standards, but personal experience for intelligent and thoughtful people. Behind it is some brilliant work of Mr. King (at his best, when not writing horror stories), which makes him (for me, at least) one of the best writers America ever had. And this story has been told through an excellent movie, with carefully picked up cast, to give probably their best, yet simple, performances. It is a very smooth movie, very well and sensibly directed. I'm highly recommending it but not to everyone - just to the ones who know how to appreciate a little masterpiece. To them it will be timeless. Everyone else &#x96; just forget it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely worth seeing!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forget all of the negative comments any of the previous users have written about this movie.   Just rent it on DVD and enjoy.   You will NOT be disappointed.   Great cast, wonderful acting, superb sets, amazing directing and cinematography. this is what REAL movie making is all about.If you have time, don't miss director Scott Hicks' insightful commentary. it'll explain things for those of you who were- for some reason- unhappy with the story or characters. "},{"Title":"Solid action, great plot, very moving.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Loved this film. Very solid acting which is what you would expect from Anthony Hopkins. Two young actors were also outstanding. Camera work, depiction of  the time (1960), and all the details were perfect. Effective sense of mystery and  genuine feelings from the actors. Overall, I would give it a 9. bob "}{"Title":"Hopkins excels again.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins' latest venture sees him teaming up with Stephen King of all people. After proving that he can write other than horror for the screen with 'The Green Mile' he follows it up with this little pearler. King returns to familiar territory with a vision of Smalltown, USA that has been visited before in films like 'Pet Sematary', 'It' and 'Stand By Me.' This time we are taken back to the what would appear to be the late fifties, early sixties to a time where children were more innocent, but the adults were just as deceptive. Bobby-O's father has died and his mother has a slighty more warped recollection of her husband than her son. Working hard to bring up her son and keep herself in new dresses, she consequently has little time for him. Ted (Hopkins) moves in upstairs and it's clear from the outset that this old man is clearly running from something, which inevitably catches up with him. Bobby and Ted strike up a bond that works excellently. With glorious performances and direction that conveys the period and the attitudes of those living in it perfectly, this was a delightful picture. A joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"Pleasing, understated King adaptation.","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Young boy named Bobby in 1960's America developes unlikely friendship with elderly Ted, who pays him a dollar a week to read the paper aloud and be on the look out for low-men.  The movie keeps the identity of these low-men unknown, creating a mysterious atmosphere, only hinting that they are from the FBI recruiting psychics for defense tactics.  Nostalgic tone is rather pleasing, with Hopkins offering a nuanced, subtle performance as the odd but charming old man.  The movie wisely avoids making the supernatural elements the focus, instead allowing us to be drawn into the wise lessons Ted teaches Bobby as he experiences his last summer as a kid.  Written by William Goldman, from a novel by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Hearts In Atlantis","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Even tho I'm a bit young (14) I though Hearts In Atlantis was great. It was the best old-time set movie I seen beside The Goonies but I love it. I would so tell other people to see it because it was that good. I cant think of anything besides that to say bout it. There is a lot to say but cant think of it. And i no I'm by myself on this but who cares if there were mistakes you can hardly tell there was. It shows on how the life was back then and its really emotional. I cry when i watch it,i don't cry but that proved that there are movies that are touching. I would say i give it a ten because it deserves it. Stephen King is a good writter to make up a story like that but i think the movie is more touching because it shows what actually goes on and you just don't picture it, its visiable. "},{"Title":"A mostly painless experience","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's America in the fifties again, which as always in Hollywood films, means shiny cars, endless summers and spoonfed nostalgia. As the original author was Stephen King, it also means something of a return to Stand by Me territory. This time a wise, benevolent, but mysterious new lodger moves into the neighbourhood, and affects the characters lives in not particularly memorable ways. Luckily, the stranger happens to be played by Anthony Hopkins, who manages to bring a bit of superficial gravitas to this lightweight story. He befriends a young boy (Anton Yelchin) who, under his influence, gets to kiss the girl next door, duffs up the local bully, and of course, learns something about life in the process. This is all painless, harmless stuff and, at only an hour and a half long, at least its not over-stretched. But it's a thin story nonetheless, and with the likes of Hopkins, Stephen King, Scott Hicks (director of Shine) and top screenwriter William Goldman involved, you could be forgiven for expecting something a bit more memorable than a pleasant Sunday afternoon TV movie-style effort like this. "},{"Title":"Loved every minute!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, not many critics in the UK have liked this film.  They've all said it's to sentimental and sickly-sweet.  I couldn't disagree more!  I thought the balance between the happy memories and dark aspects were well balanced out.I read the short story before seeing this film, and thought it worked on film without so much of the supernatural, though I think it could have worked both ways.Anthony Hopkins' performance is great as ever...though I may be biased as I am a big fan ;).  Anton Yelchin gives a fantastic performance as Bobby, really shines alongside Anthony.  Also Mika Boorhem as Carol is sublime, a very pretty girl standing out.  I also think the casting of David Morse as the older Bobby was very good...his expressions tell everything.So I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"We must look deep inside ourselves, for we will find only the truth.  And that truth, shall be the key to the handcuffs that have kept you in bondage.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Hearts in Atlantis.  The plot was very thick.  I felt the bond between Ted and Bobby.  I enjoyed the innocence of First Love.  I don't know if I really believe in Psychics, but this movie seemed very real.  I enjoyed the courage poured into Bobby.  I enjoyed how, in only a short time, Ted was able to instill it into him.  This movie really hit home with me, as I believe it would with anyone who didn't have much of a father figure, or a mother who cared.  But no sorrow here. I give this movie a thumbs up, second only to Moulin Rouge, and riding right along site American Beauty and HardBall. "},{"Title":"How pretentious can you get?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a big Anthony Hopkins fan, I was very curious to see his latest offering. What I got was a shallow, pretentious film full of oh-so clever camerawork in which Sir Anthony has clearly been told to play Hannibal Lector before he discovered an appetite for human flesh and Chianti.This film has the full panoply of clichés a man returning to his childhood home, a psychic, a poor boy growing up without a father, a self-obsessed mother, the bully who dresses up in his mother's clothes, a young girl we are all clearly supposed to fall in love with, mysterious men leaving mysterious messages - not to mention phenomenally wooden performances by the child actors.And what about all those mind-numbingly hackneyed statements that are thrust upon us whether we like it or not at barely two-minute intervals throughout the film? She has/had the heart of a lion? Your first kiss is the one by which all others will be judged? Give me a break! Screenplay-writer William Goldman clearly watched too much Little House on the Prairie as a child. Either that or he has OD'd on a mixture of Sixties pop psychology and Nineties New-Ageism.I give this film a resounding 2/10 - and then only for managing to lure Anthony Hopkins into a film that even Robert Deniro would think twice about taking on.  "},{"Title":"A disgrace to Stephen King's work of art.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I read Stephen King's best-selling novel, HEARTS IN ATLANTIS about a year ago. I thought it was one of his best pieces of writing. When I heard that it was being made into a film, I had thoughts that this film could be like STAND BY ME, a wonderful mystical tale of childhood friendship in the 60's with sly under-tones of terror and bittersweet enough to deliver a moral ending of understanding. Boy was I wrong.This piece of crap is a total disgrace to Stephen King's book of the same title and I recommend that everyone who saw this movie should read the book as well.Scott Hicks (SHINE and SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS) sugar-coats this tale with picture-book scenery and shots of Maine that look just splendid. The people here who need to be slapped back into reality are the screen-writers and whoever else that tampered with Stephen King's original work to adjust it for the big screen.The book centered on Bobby, Carol and John. Their childhood friendship was the basis of the story and their almost-magical bonding was what held the stories together. Stephen King explored their friendship and the different turns their lives took once Ted Brautigan is introduced into the story. Ted Brautigan is examined as a somewhat mysterious character, but a character you cared about and wanted to know more about when you discover his 'special power'. Stephen King placed dark under-tones into his tale with the introduction of the 'low men' who were after Ted and the suggestion that they almost seemed 'not of this world'. Bobby's mother is portrayed as a purely evil woman, an unreasonable pathetic character that you can't help but tread on egg-shells around every time you read her entering a scene.Stephen King further explores the gifts that Ted Brautigan helps Bobby to master, his psychic abilities and the friendship the two share. After Ted has been captured by the 'low men', Stephen King further explores the three friends as they grow up, in both college AND as adults and how the events they witnessed as children have effected their lives today. We discover the history leading to the deaths of both Carol and John, and the sentimental value placed on the baseball glove that Bobby receives in the mail once John has passed away.Is any of this featured in the movie though? ABSOLUTELY NOT. This movie is ridiculously sugar-coated with confusing pap that it would make the average viewer dig their fingers into the arm-rest of the chair that they are sitting in.Anthony Hopkins was entirely the wrong choice to play Ted Brautigan in this movie. In the book, I saw Ted as a man in his 40's. Here, it's an old man teaching a young boy new tricks. Bobby's mother is as tame as can be. Yes, she wasn't very likeable in the movie, but she wasn't half as evil as her character was portrayed in the book. The final scenes in the film show Bobby and his mother laughing together as they drive off in the car, a bike tied to the roof. I was thinking to myself, Why didn't the producers just have Bobby and his mother skipping off down the street into a rainbow? You would hardly even notice that John even existed in the film - he is shown in about two scenes of the film, and Bobby's friendship with Carol is only portrayed as 'puppy love', something that was handled more seriously in the novel.When David Morse (who portrays the 'older' Bobby) starts narrating again at the end of the film after he introduces himself to Carol's daughter while revisiting his childhood home, I was thinking There's no way that this could be the end of the film, and then the credits appeared. The film itself ran for about an hour and 45 minutes and we learned nothing of the characters. When Anthony Hopkins is taken away in the car by a group of average-looking men, no one in the audience really cared. This was a character who we wanted to shed a tear for in the book when he is taken away in front of Bobby. Here, he disappears from a diner instead of the bar where he collects his gambling 'winnings'.This film did not know what it wanted to deliver. Instead, it decided to settle on beautiful scenery and heartfelt scenes that try to tug at the heart and that for the most part, wins over the female audience. If anyone who read the book saw this travesty, they would be throwing popcorn at the screen.Personally, I think Stephen King should stop selling his novels for screen-plays. Until Hollywood can get it right, they have no right to meddle and tamper with things they have no idea what to do with.This film gets a huge thumbs down from me. And I implore everyone who hasn't already done so... PLEASE READ THE BOOK!!!!1/10 "},{"Title":"touching movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  such a touching and lovely movie. i was moved by the friendship of the boy and sir anthony hopkins. i was really inspired with this story. being there for your friend.  A MUST SEE MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"A different Stephen King - and that is good!","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" At least to me as I am not a fan of King's works, with very few exceptions. But Hearts in Atlantis is a pleasant tutorial story where, during a short period of time, a child gets more guidance from a stranger that from his family for his whole life. Moreover, human values and strong feelings are also nicely visible, making this movie a smooth, but unexpected run. Thanks to crime and mystical elements, the movie does not become slushy.But the real gems of the movie and Anthony Hopkins and Anton Yelchin, elderly mysterious drifter and a local 11-year-old boy, respectively. Their acting, either separately or together, is so fantastic that it outperforms some deficiencies in the plot. Recommendable as a family movie as well. "}{"Title":"Underrated King Adaptation","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another of the many Stephen King adaptations, and one of the better ones, Hearts in Atlantis is taken from a short novel, Low Men in Yellow Coats. A man, Bobby Garfield, reflects back to his days as an eleven year old boy living with his single mother, Liz, a self centered woman who has an affair with her boss in order to pay her bills. She takes in a boarder, Ted(Anthony Hopkins), who becomes a father figure to Bobby. He has psychic powers which he passes on to the boy. He helps him by reading the thoughts of a neighborhood bully. Ted pays Bobby one dollar a week(1950s money) to read him the newspapers, as his eyes are not good. He also asks the kid to watch out for the low men who are hunting him from town to town. There is a sub plot involving a bet on a boxing match that I loved, and Hopkins is as commanding as ever as Ted. This belongs in the top tier of King's works; along with The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. "},{"Title":"Almost","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember reading this book by Stephen King and thinking at the time that if they ever make a movie of it, they should leave out other aspects of the story (stories) and concentrate just on the story about the man with psychic powers and the boy he befriends, which is exactly what they did.However, the film suffers from one great miscalculation. The low-men, who are after Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins)...well, we never quite figure out who they are or why they are after him; it's left very nebulous. Are they actually bad guys, government agents, or what? Beyond that, it's a rather charming story (and not very Stephen King-ish) about a meaningful relationship between a strange man and a boy who needs a father figure in his life. But that missing information about the low-men prevents us from ever understanding exactly who Brautigan is.Anthony Hopkins is perfect here, although there are times he seems to mumble, and you may miss a bit of dialog. The boy -- Anton Yelchin -- has been fairly active in films, although I did not recognize the name. He's superb here. Hope David (the boy's mother) did okay, but I was not particularly impressed, although admittedly her role was not very sympathetic. Mika Boorem, a young actress I have not kept up with, is superb as the boy's girl friend. David Morse is very good as the boy grown up (the whole movie is a sort of flashback), and he is a busy, but in view underrated actor.Do I recommend this film? Well, yes and no. The story portrays relationships very sensitively, but that missing info about the low-men leaves a huge gap. I enjoyed watching it even a third time, but I won't be tempted to buy it for my DVD shelf. I'd give it a sold 7 if we learned who the low-men really were; instead, I'll give it a 6 -- a low rating for me.Nevertheless, I do recommend you watch this film. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem of a film that is Oscar worthy","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I would rate the film a bit higher if it weren't for the mediocre direction, cinematography, and variety of settings, but this film deserves more attention. It's a well written story based on a Stephen King novella that was translated perfectly for the screen. What drives the story is the deep characterization, while the plot remains ambiguous and mysterious, bordering on fantastical.Anthony Hopkins was as usual, brilliant. He was absolutely perfect for this role because of his deep mystical stare, and dreamy voice. He added mystery to the character, and I particularly liked the performance of young Anton Yelchin who as we know, grew up to be a very good actor.I highly recommend watching this one with the family, it teaches, mystifies, humbles, depresses, and inspires all at the same time. "},{"Title":"This is a sentimental movie imbued with colors of mystery.","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hearts in Atlantis is a movie which has many appreciable sides to it. On one hand it's a great mystery movie and on the other it's a great tale of one innocent child who happens to meet a psychic. Two scenes stand out 'perfectly' in my memory and they seem to be some of the best scenes I have ever witnessed on screen In first one three kids are playing and walking on a railway track which has a shape like a snake and at the end of this railway track there seems to be a horizon with a Neptunian yellow glow of setting sun. This scene is very sensitive and beautiful scene. The scene at the climax where kid drives his bike and disappears is also a very affecting one.This is a mystery movie because many a things are not known. Who the psychic was and why he was being searched by some mysterious bogey-man type agents, where did the father of the kid go and some other things remain unclear. The movie however has a very touching tale of the relation between the kid and the psychic. The kid has a difficult childhood because his mother is not only poor but also mean. The character of the kid has been played very efficiently by Yelchin. As for the psychic, one of the greatest and most charismatic actors of all time, Anthony Hopkins was playing it and he does not let you blink with his majestic style. This is a sentimental movie imbued with colors of mystery. And yes, Stephen King did this one with a bit less of horror and paranormal and he did it brilliantly! "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, funny, with a touch of the supernatural and a great cast.","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie, with Anthony Hopkins playing Ted a mysterious renter in the house with Bobby Garfield and his mother. There is a mystery surrounding Ted which we slowly learn more about, and the rest is small town kids growing up. There are some wonderful lines in the movie, presumably penned by Stephen King. The acting is superb by everyone. Anton Yelchin as Bobby-O is outstanding, but you will also be charmed by Mika Boorem's Carol. Hope Davis is terrific as the self-centred mother. Hopkins character is very likable, but he doesn't dominate this tale because he treads lightly throughout.All of the supporting characters are interesting and convincingly portrayed. The story will probably leave you misty-eyed, and wishing there were more movies like it. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography but what was the point?","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cinematography was simply fantastic that told a tale of a relationship of a boy and an old man who also seemed to suggest that they both had have special powers. A story about a boy growing up with great music and a first love with a hint of a but this is where it lets me down, I find it slow and unbelievable but not in the way that you would think. While I like the idea that both the boy and the old man can see into the minds of others and i like the music and imagery which is simply divine but the script is poor and ill conceived. It is hardly believable for the era that a mother would be worried about the relationship of an old man or the mother of the girl is never seen but the mother of the son is questioning an old man or even her own son questioning his own mother about smoking? .... This is of course written for the era WE LIVE in. Then we have the clothing of the young girl .... It was never acceptable for young girl of that era to wear knee high jeans this was a more of a teenager design then we have a mother who seems to not care then starts to care please. They could have done so much more with the story and as you know imagination is the key so if you feel that you are let down by the movie i suggest you try the book which is a very good read.Points for the good acting .... points for the camera work ....Points for the music ..... no points for the inaccuracies of the era! "},{"Title":"Strange but thoughtful coming-of-age piece.","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Strange but thoughtful coming-of-age piece about an ambitious boy (Anton Yelchin) and his skeptical mother (Hope Davis) who have a highly gifted man (Anthony Hopkins) move into the boarding house where the pair live in the Connecticut suburb during the fifties.  The performances by Hopkins, Yelchin, and David Morse (in a small role), who serves as the narrator, are impressive.Based on the novel by Stephen King, which is adapted by William Goldman (Misery), and the movie is directed by Scott Hicks (Snow Falling on Cedars and Shine).  Another part of the film that can't go unnoticed is camera work of the late Piotr Sobocinski and how he creates a beautiful appearence of the streets during autumn. Hearts in Atlantis left me with the feeling of someone whom I once met during the summer several years ago.  The presence and loyalty that they showed towards me was an awakening, not rude but a surprise.  When I saw the movie in the theater over a year ago, I didn't think of that, however; I rented the film last week.  Watching the movie rended me of the friend and I wonder if I'll ever see them again.      "},{"Title":"Open your eyes and welcome the future.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Talk about a good one. This is adapted from Stephen King's novel and really can put that fuzzy feeling in your stomach. King does so well with bringing us situations that bring back our similar memories. A photographer(David Morse)returns to the town he lived in at the age of 11. He goes to the site of the now rundown house and the memories begin. It is the 1960's and his widowed mom struggles to pay the bills, but he is rich in memories of what happened on his street...nothing. That is until a mysterious man(Anthony Hopkins) with strange powers rents the upstairs apartment. His stay was a short one; but one that would be remembered for a lifetime. For atmosphere there is the great sounds of Chuck Berry, The Crew Cuts, Santo & Johnny and The Platters. As you know, King always tries to slip in some of those great tunes of our childhood in almost every one of his novels. Kudos to director Scott Hicks for this wonderful adaptation. Also in the cast areAnton Yelchin, Mika Boorem and Will Rothhaar. "},{"Title":"What if one of life's great mysteries moved upstairs?","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen many movies in my time that have been either very dramatic or scary, yet &#145;Hearts in Atlantis', in its own unique way does both of these at the same time. I enjoy reading Stephen King Novels, but feel that his books make great ideas for movies. This film is no exception to that rule.In the summer of 1960, young Bobby Garfield is sharing adventures with his best friends Carol and Sully when an enigmatic lodger named Ted Brautigan rents a room in his family's boarding house. Soon, Bobby learns that Ted possesses supernatural gifts, has a haunted past, and is being pursued by sinister men whose intentions are unclear.This is a great film. I found the storyline between Bobby and Ted to be of real enjoyment. Ted was performed by acting legend Anthony Hopkins. Many of his scenes where we see him in a &#145;world of his own' are priceless from Hopkins. Yet he is also to be congratulated on how he interacts on screen with a very young cast. Ted blends in beautifully with Bobby. In fact many of the scenes we see with Bob and Ted are of true quality, especially the way he asks Bobby to save him from the &#145;bad guys' that was great. I remember seeing Hopkins in an interview saying that he found it hard in real life to interact with children, like most adults would, by just simply overpowering them. Instead he treats children as he would any adult, and this shone through in his role as Ted, considering what does for Bobby and the other young people in the film. I felt that the children were treated with the same amount of respect as the adults were by Ted. Then look at the performances by the young cast members of this film. Many people would agree that after discovering what a talent Haley Joel Osment was, that we might not see how great some young actors could be. I know that I never realised who Anton Yelchin was, or how great an actor he was going to be. But his role in this film was first class. I am sure that he has a career to now go on with. It was very pleasing to see how Bobby and Carol are such good friends, and that Bobby will do anything for Carol, risking his own life in the process. In fact one of the funnier scenes in this film, is when Ted announces to Bobby &#145;your first kiss, will be the kiss, where by all kisses are looked upon on', with Bobby protesting that kissing is evil. Yet when Bobby has had enough of his mother he lets fly with a stinging attack on her, which for me was one of the best scenes of the entire movie.We also see some other great performances in this movie. The character of Carol was performed well by Mika Boorem. She is a lovable young girl in this film, so pure and innocent, it is no wonder Bobby likes her so much. Then the role of Bobby's mother was great by Hope Davis. I felt that she bought the true feeling of how parents would have treated children in the 1960s.  The very minor role taken on by actor David Morse is also worth a mention here. I found it to be of great importance at both the start and end of the film, when at the end of the film, we see how peculiar life really can be.I felt that Scott Hicks did a wonderful job as director of &#145;Hearts In Atlantis'. I enjoy not only how we see most of the film, but also how he both starts and then end this film. The time that the film is set in was great, as was many of the features such as the businesses in the town, the use of radio and &#145;root beer', which Ted and Bobby shared many a drink of. Most of the praise for this part of the film has to go to Cinematographer, Piotr Sobocinski, who brought this film to life. There are many great pieces to this film. Scenes such as when Bobby first meets Ted, when Ted talks about how great it is to have an adult library card, because of the great authors you can read. There is also the small sporting touch when Ted tells Bobby about the Football team, the (Chicago) bears, and how a retired player is brought back, to help save the day for his team. I also enjoyed the scene how Ted backs a large amount of money on a boxing fight in a pool hall, while Bobby finds out the truth about his late father from a bar maid. I have done many reviews, so I have probably said this before, but if a movie's soundtrack can get the audiences' attention then that can help win them over. Well it does for me in any case. This movie, though it has a very old soundtrack, still has a very good one. With classic songs such as Come Fly With Me, Ain't That A Shame, The Twist and Only You. They are all great hits of the past, and are used perfectly in this movie.For me, &#145;Hearts in Atlantis' hit the spot. While it did have a very eerie feeling to it, I found myself liking both that and its main characters, Ted and Bobby. They have a very fascinating relationship, although their age gap should never have allowed this to happen. Also, considering that this is a story taken from a Stephen King novel, I will take particular notice for it on the shelves, as I am sure I will like reading it.CMRS gives &#145;Hearts in Atlantis' 4.5 (very good - brilliant film)  "},{"Title":"Great except the flash-forwards","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie, though I've wanted to for ages, and I was not disappointed. Anton Yelchin as Bobby Garfield in particular was absolutely dazzling, as was Mika Boorem as Carol, albeit in a much smaller role. Anthony Hopkins was fine, but I dont think this is one of his better movies. In fact, the whole thing seemed to me to kind of pass on the torch so to speak to a younger generation of actors...I know, I know, Hopkins just gets better with age, but still.The only real complaint I had was the flash-forward bits of the film, with Bobby as an adult. I thought they were unnecessary and pretty cheesy, especially the part where he was talking to Molly...the film was complete without those bits at the beginning and end, and though it would definitely have a different feel - i.e. Carol (and less importantly Sully) wouldn't be doomed from the beginning, but I don't think that it's that important to the plot that they die later...just imho, of course. Still, this is a great film. "}{"Title":"More Magical?","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had wanted to see Hearts In Atlantis since I saw the theatrical trailer on television.  I love Anthony Hopinks and his role as Ted was amazing. There could have been more 'magical' times in this movie, as the trailer had lead us to believe the movie was about.  I personally didn't know much about the movie and when I started watching it, upon the meeting of Ted and little Bobby (Anton Yelchin), I personally was taken a back and thought there might be some relations between the two, which thank God turned out to be completely innocent.  Their bond was amazing.  If I were Bobby's mother, I wouldn't have been as trusting to leave my son with an older man as she did.The casting of David Morse as the older Bobby was an excellent choice. His expressions tell everything.  You actually 'feel' what he is feeling, right along with him.  David Morse is amazing. Look at his eyes when he hears the news about Carol.  He is a wonderful actor.Overall, this was a good movie... again, I would have liked to see more 'magical' parts coming from Hopkins.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful and moving film! Anthony Hopkins should have received an Oscar nomination!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Since I read and loved the HEARTS IN ATLANTIS book by Stephen King, I desperately wanted to see HEARTS IN ATLANTIS when it was in theaters last September, but I never got around to it before it was out of theaters. I've been trying for months to rent it at my local video store, yet every time I went there would be no copies left on video or DVD. Finally, when I went to the video store last night, a copy was left on the shelf. I rented it along with Richard Linkwater's TAPE and rushed home to watch it. From reading the book, I knew it would be an odd movie, but that didn't bother me. What did bother me though is the fact that Anthony Hopkins didn't even receive an Oscar nomination for his performance in this movie. Watch this or any other movie with Anthony Hopkins in it and you'll discover that he is truly one of the finest actors of all time. Anthony Hopkins isn't the only one gives a wonderful performance here. I found the performances by Anton Yelchin, Hope Davis, and Mika Boorem to be quite compelling as well. It's not just the terrific performances that make this movie so fascinating, but the story, dialogue, and top-notch character development also make this a winner. Director Scott Hicks keeps the movie going at a good speed and even though there's not much action in the film, he finds away to make the film seem exciting in every seen. Overall, I'd give it four stars. It's a must see.  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and emotional","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've heard a lot of users describe this film, in one way or another as  refreshing.  For some reason that is just what it is. I found it a pleasure to watch for the beautiful cinematography and clever editing in some segments. Hopkins gives a performance that may not be as compelling as his others, but is appealing as a mysterious, grandfatherly type along side the equaly entertaining Anton Yelchin.   I think anyone who criticises this film is looking for too much and should accept that people will and always do interpret films the way they wish and in the end a film does not have to be perfect in order for it to have an effect on someone. Just because it didn't do that for you, does not make it especially bad.  Overall, the film is worth watching for its thought provoking ideas about childhood, growing up, and accepting life and what is to come as a mystery. This is what I felt and I hope other's would have the pleasure of feeling to. "},{"Title":"Good movie, great book","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie itself is wonderful, but if you've read the book first, you're not going to be happy with it.    My suggestion would be to see the movie then read the book.  Otherwise, you will spend the entire time during the movie picking it apart. As a whole the movie was great, but since I have read the book I kept expecting certain things to happen or picking apart certain things that did happen.  Please enjoy both the movie and the book. But do them in that order.  "},{"Title":"Once again with feeling","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 101 minCharm as only Hopkins can do it, a deep and moving story with tall as life characters as only King can do it. This is a must see movie telling a tale of betrayal, love & the kiss by which all others will be judged (and found wanting).Morse; though not a star character; was a good choice as the adult boy - wrapping the tale at both ends.7/10 well worth watching "},{"Title":"You gotta have heart","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To paraphrase Wallace Stevens, one must have a mind of winter not to like this film.  Unless you're a Stephen King fanatic there is nothing not to be liked about Hearts In Atlantis.  Yes, it's melodramatic, and yes, it's sweet, but these are not drawbacks.  Just allow something nice into your life.  Hopkins is ghost-like, much like Christopher Walken in The Dead Zone. Anton Yelchin as Bobby is just about the most natural young actor I have ever seen, and Mika Boreem, as Carol, is heartbreakingly beautiful, and when she smiles it's like opening presents on Christmas morning.  And yes, that is Mika in the coda.  David Morse is also amazing; look at his eyes when he hears the news about Carol.  Nobody saw this movie in the theaters, let's hope that mistake isn't repeated for the video release.  Sir Anthony, as Ted, and we as viewers, behold nothing that is not there and the nothing that is.  Please see this film. "},{"Title":"Very original use of theme of mystical power.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins was his usual excellent self in this Steven King portrayal of mystical powers. Anton Yelchin's depiction of Bobby is believable and innocent. The cute romance scenes with Bobby and Carol (Mika Boorem) are sweet and tastfully done. I was hesitant at first to rent this movie thinking it was another poor interpretation of a Steven King novel, but was pleasantly surprised by how the movie kept moving along and Yelchin's believable character. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning photography!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What's the old saying, Fools go where angels fear to tread?  After reading the very severe earlier comments about this movie, I too am afraid to say that I loved this movie from the first image to the last frame. I thought that Scott Hicks did an exceptional job of directing, I wasn't bothered in the least by the early Sixties setting, Anthony Hopkins was even better if that's possible playing this very low-key character and the children acting with him were matched beautifully to his quiet portrayal of the mysterious interloper.I loved the wonderful collection of closeups that Hicks presented to his audience;  these images paired to the gorgeous lighting makes a visually stunning movie. For this reason I hope to watch the film at least another time-I cannot recall a movie that had such evocative lighting from beginning to end.Other important contemporary directors use closeups as the most important shot in their kit bag of filming techniques but Hicks allows the camera to linger with the image rather than racing along to other images obviously much of this reflects a directors pacing of their movie but just as obviously these directors have misinterpreted pace for substance.See the film because of its marvelous collection of images and to watch Hopkins at his best.   "},{"Title":"Anthony Hopkins","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Once again I have been impressed with Anthony Hopkins. These, to me, are the kind of roles that should be rewarded with oscars, but I don't think that will happen. The story is peculiar and very interesting, but not exciting enough to make it a top movie. It's the acting that makes it more than worthwhile to watch. It's Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"Hopkins is Excellent","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You never know what to expect from a film based on a novel by Stephen King. These films range from grotesquely bad films like The Mangler (by the way, The Mangler 2 is on its way) to the landmark classic Shawshank Redemption. Hearts in Atlantis is far from both poles, but it is absolutely on the better side.    I will not leave out that I think Anthony Hopkins is the most superb actor throughout history, and he is the main reason why I liked this movie. He delivers the goodygoodies as always. The film as such is light weight, almost completely without supernaturalism, at least compared to normal Stephen King standards. It will not make a lasting impression, but it is a cosy film with good performances.    The 12-year-old Anton Yelchin also deserves extra credit. The kid was so respectful to Anthony Hopkins that only towards the end of the shooting he would start addressing him Mr. Anthony. However, he does not show this on screen. Impressive from a newcomer - a newcomer both on the screen and in life.   Rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"Children's hears are in a mystical magical place.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie. The screen writer managed to blend the mystical from Stephen King, with a Disney-like childhood story, to create a wonderful movie. The movie made me remember my childhood, and all the fun memories.Anthony Hopkins delivers a great performance, and Anton Yelchin was amazing for a young actor of his age. Production was great too. The movie captured the feel and atmosphere of the sixties.Although this movie was rated PG-13, I definitely think that it's an adult movie. It's made for an older audience.This is a great movie if you are tired of the usual predictable, meaningless movies. It puts you in a good mood for most of it, but it also provokes a lot of thought.I give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"More Enjoyable If One Has Not Read The Book","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While the screen version of the King book is quite faithfully done it is a tremendous story both of weight and time. Condensing it lessens it's power if you've turned the pages. Goldman's whose previous adaptation of 'Misery' was excellent omits a significant part of the tale which i will not name here. i just thought with the film running under 1h50m it was unnecessary to cut and produced the ill effect and the awful comment from my mouth That's not like the book. It was the only time I said something to that effect and it hurt the film. Aside from that it was quite a positive experience. For the most part I mean 90 percent the film is identical to the book leaving out some King dovetails only avid fans would register. The scenery, set design and cinematography were all great and made for a very interesting visual film. Anthony Hopkins was understated but after 20 minutes I was thinking of him as Ted. Anton Yelchin also makes quite a powerful debut performance as Bobby Garfield, it was one of the more sincere interpretations you'll see this year in most roles. Scott Hicks knew what the character was and Yelchin executed it. It is a very enjoyable film but see it for what it is do not expect the book.  "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What happens to the lives of a young mother and son when a strange old man comes to live in the suite upstairs of theirs? Their lives change in ways they never imagined. Hearts in Atlantis is about a man who has his world turned upside down when he finds out that two of his childhood friends have past away. In a trip back to his old neighborhood to see the house where he grew up, Robert Garfield (David Morse) begins to reminisce about his younger years, in particular a time when a strange old man by the name of Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) moves into the suite above his. The old man is quiet and a bit reclusive yet Robert and Ted build a friendship that is stronger than most life long friendships. At the time, Robert's life primarily revolved around two friends. His relationship with his mom is almost non-existent as she is preoccupied with furthering her own career and lavishing herself with new clothes and socializing with corporate types. The old man becomes a more of a parental figure than his own mother but to make things even more interesting, the old man possesses psychic powers that seem to affect those around him, especially Robert.What made this movie good? Well for one, Anthony Hopkins. There is no doubt that this man can act. He plays every character as if he has spent years researching the subject. He has a peculiar rhythm to the delivery of his lines yet it works and makes the character all the more believable. It's seldom you find something to criticize Anthony Hopkins about and in this movie there is nothing but good to say. David Morse is another wonderful actor. Although he rarely has the lead role, his presence is never missed. In this movie, he is in the movie briefly at the beginning to establish the direction of the story and at the end to wrap it up but like Hopkins he immerses himself in the character and delivers a beautiful performance however brief it was.However, my loudest compliments go to Anton Yelchin. This young man plays the young Bobby Garfield and plays it well. I have to be honest and admit that when I first saw the actor of young bobby Garfield, I wasn't sure about this young man but as the movie progressed, he grew on me and I found his performance to be very convincing. This is quite the achievement when you realize that this young actor is a major character and must practically carry the movie since most of the story takes place around him. Very good performance.The pace of the movie was a bit odd but it fell in line with the plot line. If you were looking for a bit of action, you're not going to find it here. But if you want something that is intriguing this is the movie for you.Overall, I really enjoyed this movie. It's a slower paced introspective type of a storyline but it's beautifully done. You'll find yourself intrigued by Hopkins's character and be amazed at young Yelchin's acting.  "},{"Title":"This is the kind of film that has always made me love the movies.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts In Atlantis is the kind of film that has always made me love the movies. Films like, A River Runs Through It, The Sixth Sense, The Shawshank Redemption and now, Hearts In Atlantis have this underlying quiet metaphysical magic to them that I find spellbinding as I sit in the dark cave of the theater.  This kind of movie making intensity even makes the recorded sounds of the foley artists delicious.A life-long sucker for the movies, I don't sit there and try to guess the next story turn, or try to figure too much about a character.  I'm along for the ride, and this one was like a gentle ride through the country in the spongy backseat of one the large finned cars of the 1950's, the period of the film.It is an intelligent film, though one could possibly argue that it comes to being too sentimental.  I don't care.  I loved it for that.  For the sentiment to me is real.  You hardened cynics out there will probably tear this film to pieces and if you feel that way I feel sorry for you that you can't let out a deep breath and sink into this one. Better luck to you in your next life.This is a soft and loving story about a boy desperate to know his father who has passed away.  The boy's Mom is a frustrated woman obsessed with herself.  The mysterious boarder played so carefully and beautifully by the great Anthony Hopkins comes into the boy's life as an angel might.This was the decade of my youth, so I especially identify with the naivete of the era, the familiarity with the look of the art direction, the men's hats, the bicycles, the furniture, the shadowy g-men.This story by Stephen King feels to me a lot like of Ray Bradbury influence combining elements of an intimate story that is turned by the metaphyical. I am now so curious to read the book to read the source of this wonderful story.Anthony Hopkins is once again a master's master.  Mr. Hopkin's command of time and space holds the universe of the story together.  Even watching Mr. Hopkins drink rootbeer from a bottle is a treat.  Anton Yelchin gives an amazingly touching performance as the boy.  Mika Boorem is perfect as Carol.A life affirming film, Hearts In Atlantis is a thoroughly satisfying movie experience.  You movie lovers out there, see Hearts In Atlantis in the movie theater, don't wait for the rental, please!!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful both visually and narratively","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Hearts In Atlantis' is a movie that gets really good reviews, but unfortunately, opens on a weekend when a much worse movie will be able to steal the box office (Don't Say A Word and Zoolander).The film looks amazing it's shot by cinematographer Piotr Sobocinsky who gives the film a unique 50's style look, but also, gives it as much depth as Scott Hicks puts into his amazing directing abilities.  The film is so beautifully shot and incredible looking I won't surprised if we see it appear at the Oscars in March.The story focuses more on the growing up aspect of life in the 50's.  Anton Yelchin and Mika Booreem are just as astounding young actors as Haley Joel Osment and Elijah Wood.  They prove their worth as professional actors who if they continue on the right track, will one day become excellent.  Anthony Hopkins is at his best, and seems almost angelic in his role as Ted Brautigan.  Finally, Hope Davis makes a more than convincing turn as the mother who's so into herself that she forgets about the life of her child.The emotional aspect of the film is at the highest point, the music, cinematography and acting combined make this film worth-while for anyone.  It's probably one of the best made films to come out this year.  This film absolutely gets 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Empower this!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King (`the Shining', `Carrie' etc.) joins with Anthony Hopkins (akaHannibal Lector) and you'd expect an evening of gore and horror. Althoughyou'll find the paranormal here, the scariest creatures are McCarthy eraagents and the neighborhood bully. This is a real frightening combinationafter all.Adult Bobbie Garfield (David Morse) revisits his hometown and begins hisreflection by fogging a window and tracing  &#145;11' on it. This brings us backto young Bobby's (Anton Yelchin) 11th birthday. An idyllic setting? Perhaps,but the adults in his life were unsupportive, conniving or abusive.Bobby's late father is characterized as gambler and a womanizer.Mom is having difficulties keeping ends met while maintaining a wardrobe thesize of Erin Brokovich. And her boss is a candidate for a sexual harassmentif the film was set in the later 20th Century.The mysterious Mr. Ed Brautigan (Hopkins) helps defray some of the expensesas a border in the Garfield home and becomes the focus of young bobby'sdevelopment. Ed is different. He hires bobby to &#145;look out for low men' whoare pursuing him and to read him the newspaper. Ed and bobby'srelationship is central to the story as he instructs, nurtures, protects andpasses on his legacy to &#145;open your eyes and let the future in.Expect an ending that will bring a tear to the hardest hearted among us. Thisfilm is jammed packed with archetypical experiences -an expensive bike, firstkiss, adult library card, best friends, carnivals, and bullies.  Bobbysurvives them all. Should a film be a mere reflection of the source material or an art form tobe considered by itself? Since I didn't read King, Stephen's version Iam free to enjoy this film unburdened.  But seeing Hearts mayget me to buy the book.Early in the film, adult Bobby says `You never know when the past will comecrashing in on you.' `Hearts in Atlantis' will crash in on you but if youdon't go see it, it will just sink away.  "},{"Title":"just a sweet little film","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can understand all the comments about the film being too slow, or not faithful to the book. It is obvious there was a lot which was left out or unexplained, but I found myself totally enthralled throughout this sweet story. It definitely made me want to go out and read the book (something I am glad I did not do first). Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of Ted Brautigan was simply mesmerizing, and he and the young boy seemed to have a real chemistry.I have seen comments on how the mother was not as thoroughly evil as her character in the book, but it seems that in such a low-key telling of the story it was enough to merely hint at her personality.Those who like things spelled out, or who like some action will likely be disappointed by this.  Finally, the movie was not really faithful to the impression given by the trailer. The supernatural angle was barely played up, which may disappoint some who go with that expectation. Mainly, it seemed to be about things coming full circle, and in that context, I think it worked perfectly. So see it if that is the kind of thing you enjoy, otherwise, don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"It was pretty good if allowed to stand separate from the book","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One newspaper headline set the stage for a fairly large change from the story in the book.  But without giving anything away...  The story stands on it's own fairly well.There were a few times where I could remember some nearly word for word dialogue from the book.  Which was quite alright with me.Also, they have SOMEWHAT set themselves up for a franchise here since the book was four intertwined stories and this movie only encompasses the first of the four. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable film with a few minor flaws","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I got dragged into seeing this film at the last minute by friends, and I really wasn't too happy about it. But this film really surprised me. It's one of the best films of the year. Anthony Hopkins is absolutely perfect as Ted Brautigan, a supernatural stranger who befriends a young boy, and all the kids in the film give sensitive, wonderful performances. But, alas, the film is not perfect. There are a few minor flaws that I won't get into right now, because it's hard to bad-mouth a film like this. Bottom line A wonderful coming-of-age drama with a pinch of the supernatural. Grade A "},{"Title":"Just didn't have enough confidence in Kings work.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While Kings work was magnificent, the movie was merely superb.While this movie was overall quite good, it should have included parts of King's work that would have greatly enhanced its quality with relative ease. The central idea of the book would have been almost impossible to pass on in the format of a movie, and part of me is glad they didn't.But another part of me is disappointed. While skirting parts of the book-in a way-they also diluted some scenes, which hurt my ability to enjoy the characters. Suffering in  particular were the `Low Men,' who have absolutely none of the surreal power or flavor they had in the book (on a side note, I couldn't accept the Low Men because in my mind-though not in the book-they just HAD to drive the three headlight Tucker).Hopkins is, of course, absolutely amazing. If the Low Men were the `worst' in capturing the magic of the book, he was the best, as I and everyone else knew he would be.Overall 7/10 "}{"Title":"I'm going back again, something I have not done in a LONG time.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Repeat after me  A screenplay is not a book, and a book is not a screenplay.  To question this script by William Goldman would be like me questioning Michael Jordan's ability to dribble.  This script is magnificent!  After the usual line up of mindless Summer films, this was the breath of fresh air for which I had been longing.  I won't do the usual synopsis of the film.  Just let me say that this film snuck up on me and had me tightly in it's grasp by the end.  It has been a very long time since I have been so moved by a film. "},{"Title":"Anthony Hopkins Scores Again","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You knew this was going to be an excellent movie within the first five minutes.  Hopkins acting is the biggest plus, but given this sensitive story by King it makes one wonder how he writes those other tales.  A movie that will touch the hearts of young and old alike. "},{"Title":"Couldn't be much better.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was based on one of five stories from the novel of the same name. The movie was very faithful to the story, but left out some of the minor details that have to do with the book.  If they would have included those details, the movie would have been ungodly long, and probably pretty confusing to anyone who hasn't read the book and a few others by King. Overall, for what it was, the movie couldn't have been much better. "},{"Title":"Follows the book closely. May not be a family movie.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hopkins is excellent in the role. Having read the book last year I already had a mental picture of what Ted should look like...and he did! In fact all the characters were cast as if they walked out of the book. I thought the movie was great. Now here's the tough part. My 9 year old wanted to see it. I went first because I remember some pretty horrid things happening to Carol and the Mom. The movie version did a good job of toning these scenes down...but..I would have hesitation of recommending this as a family movie in spite of what it may appear in previews. It's an excellent period piece and for those their mid-50's (like me!) you will find many memories being stirred. It's PG-13 and going to be a tough call since there really aren't that many kids movies out at this time. There's really nothing offensive...but I really don't think kids will find this enjoyable. All adults...go see it! Yet another fine Stephen King interpretation (like the Green Mile).  "},{"Title":"Yet another solid King fantasy","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While some argue that the recently Wes Craven-driven horror genre of film - a genre that writer Stephen King is no stranger to, has become extremely formulaic, one can also argue that there's a new genre that is becoming increasingly formulaic the Stephen King fantasy/drama. Take the film adaptation's of The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption; both feature cinematography based around a bygone era and both feature human will triumphing over the long odds and injustices that life brings.It is fitting then that the latest miraculous tale translated from King's pen to the silver screen begins with a flashback, similar to the early scenes in The Green Mile. It is also fitting that the tale center around an odd, mysterious character with the ability to work miracles - this time played by the stately Anthony Hopkins as the enigmatic Ted Brautigan instead of the imposing Michael Clarke Duncan as gentle giant John Coffey. Yet another recurring theme is present in an adaptation of a Stephen King work in the focus of children and that aura of magic that exudes from them. This was also seen in King movies such as The Shining and It where children are capable of much more than their adult counterparts. Chances are if you've watched another movie based on a King work, you'll probably notice some common themes strewn together in Hearts In Atlantis.Yet as cookie-cutter as the movie seems, it is extremely well done. Hopkins is perfect as the genial but odd boarder in young Bobby Garfield's life. Anton Yelchin and Mika Boorem are simply delightful as the pre-teen sweethearts Bobby Garfield and Carol Gerber and Hope Davis plays the token troubled single mother to a T. The score, primarily composed of late 1950's tunes, while a bit of an anachronism considering the time is in the 1960's, fits perfectly. Yet what is truly amazing is the cinematography. The late Piotr Sobocinski did an excellent job of capturing the colors and look of the era; the picture doesn't look too drab and dreary nor does it look too bright and whimsical.The movie itself is typical dramatic King-fare; an enigmatic yet incredibly figure impacts the lives of all those around him, in this case, several children in a low-income Connecticut neighborhood. It's your classic coming-of-age tale with a supernatural King-twist, centering around how young Bobby Garfield matures in one magical summer thanks to his relationship with Hopkins' genial boarder Ted Brautigan. It's nothing you probably haven't seen before, but it's done so well that it's well worth seeing. The performances are excellent, the cinematography is stunning and direction is solid. Though a bit formulaic, this King tale is definitely a magical journey you'll love taking. "},{"Title":"Great Portrayal of how one man can change a young boys life.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Heart of Atlantis is a great movie for anyone who loves King's other movies. Unlike most of Kings movies Hearts of Atlantis is not so much focused on the supernatural and a science-fiction plot instead it is based upon a young boy who befriends an old Man (Hopkins) who has psychic ability. Hearts of Atlantis combines elements of suspense and sorrow and leaves an ending which although is predictable is clearly needed to bring out that sad tone that the movies leaves the audience with. Overall this is a great movie and offers another superb performance by Hopkins and introduces 3 new coming young actors that surely have earned a part at winning the hearts of the audience members watching.  "},{"Title":"An Unusual Fugitive","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If anyone is looking for some typical Stephen King fare with lots of blood and vividly imagined monsters, Hearts of Atlantis is not your film. If however your taste runs to well acted drama about growing up in the early sixties Hearts of AAtlantis is definitely the film for you. Although it's not stated my gut tells me that this tale is somewhat autobiographical.David Morse comes back to the small town he grew up in to attend the funeral of a friend killed in action, presumably Kuwait during Desert Storm. He also learns that his first girl friend also passed on a few years earlier. They were a trio that hung out and did things together as kids. Morse's mind wanders back to those innocent days when Anton Yelchin as young Morse, Will Rothhaar as the man who was killed as a youngster and Mika Boorem as the girl friend are all of eleven.Yelchin lives with his mother Hope Davis, a woman made bitter by the split between her and Yelchin's father. Into their lives comes a mysterious boarder whom Davis takes in because she needs the money, but remains suspicious. The stranger is Anthony Hopkins and he and Yelchin form a bond.Hopkins is a fugitive, but not in the usual sense. As we discover he's got powers and abilities far beyond those of ordinary men which are in the mind reading field. It's a gift and a curse and Hopkins is wanted by some mysterious strangers who want to make use of his abilities. Presumably this is the Central Intelligence Agency.Hearts in Atlantis is a tender and loving film that is made by the performances of Anthony Hopkins and the juvenile cast around him. Best scene in the film is Hopkins defusing a confrontation between Yelchin and friends and a school bully played by Timothy Reifsnyder. Hopkins reads Reifsnyder and tells him things about himself he would not want known, but they do ring true and play into the pathology of bullying.This is an absolute must see films, one of the best screen performances by Anthony Hopkins on film. "},{"Title":"An average movie.Based on a great book.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" After finally getting round to seeing this,i have to say i am a bit disappointed by this film.The book is one of my favourites that has been written.While some people complain about bits that get taken out when you get book-to-screen.I have to say that i think its best to try to view both apart from each other. The plotBobby Gartfiel (DavidGreen Mile Morse)returns to his hometown for a funeral of a childhood friend.While he is there he thinks back to the Summer of 1960.At some point that summer,a stranger Ted Brauitgen (Antony Hopkins) comes into town,and stayer's in a flat next to Bobby and his mother.During the summer Bobby and Ted build a strong relationship with each-other,and Ted helps a young Bobby (Anton Yelchin) with a girl he is in love with Carol (Mika Boorem).Everything seams to be going great,Till some McCarthyish types of people come to the town looking for Ted. View on the filmWhile the acting in the film is fine (Hopkins,Yelchin and Boorem are the stand outs),the main problem seams to be the screenplay,written by the usually great William Buch and SundanceGoldman.The friend that has died,is not given very strong relationships so you cant have any feeling of sadness that he has died. Final view An above-average film,based on a fantastic book by Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Recommended, a fine film","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not bad.  Steven King isn't a GREAT writer, but he's not the least bit...bad.  The movie is a solid B film.  I thought about giving it a B-, but then I looked back at the movie's ending.  The theme.  The whole childhood innocence theme reassured the movie's good grade.  The whole thing is dramatic as hell, and you'll find yourself sucked in and loving it. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"undescribable","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was so incredible.  there are no words to describe the emotion that i got from this movie and how touched i was.  Anthony Hopkins was amazing.  his acting was superb and simple fantastic.  there could not have been a better person to play the role that Anton Yelchin acted.  he put so much feeling into his role and was just so unbelievable.  Mika Boorem was beautiful.  she is a wonderful actress and i cant wait to see more movies that she and Anton star in together!  it deserves a 10/10 with out a doubt! "}{"Title":"A powerful, evocative film","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although the circumstances of the boy in the film weren't really similar to my own at that age, I found myself remembering things from my own childhood (I was 14 at the time the events of this movie took place) that I hadn't remembered in years. The magic that Ted Brautigan brought into Bobby Garfield's life reminded me, forcibly at times, of the wonder and beauty of life as I felt it during those years. I have traveled far from the home I grew up in, and have lost contact with so many people I knew. This film is incredibly powerful, and I would urge everyone to see it. "},{"Title":"STILL, THOSE CHAPTERS ON THE BOOK WOULD MAKE THIS A FANTASTIC MOVIE","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it is a classic Hollywood conversion of a book really worth reading.I personally believe that the info on the characters and the plot could hardly be transferred on a movie unless this had a duration of 4 hours, at least.Nevertheless, i was left with the impression after watching the movie that somebody had stolen the other chapters.I will be rather strict on this   my rating is 6 / 10. "},{"Title":"superb acting, very persuasive scenes","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't quite understand the average of a 6.8.... In my opinion this film is a high standard, dramatic production with an astonishing magical performance of Hopkins and the youngster, Anton velchin if I remembered correctly. Upcoming star I tell you, and if he won't, it's not because of his potential.With some tearjerking scenes, which are not over dramatized, this is a great movie to watch with your lover, close to each other, desperately trying to hide your occasional tears.Both the score and the cinematography play a good part in swallowing you up in the situations at hand.I give it an 8.6. "},{"Title":"An extraordinary unsong movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw Hearts in Atlantis on DVD I was very impressed by it. To get the full extent of the movie I suggest that you read that story first. I did, and I thought that the movie was terrific. As a fan of Anthony Hopkins I applaud his perfomance as Ted Brautigan. As an even bigger fan of William Goldman I applaud his screenplay for this move, mainly because (and I'm not dissing Stephen King) he made the story into something that made more sense. Anton Yelchin gave an excellant performance as Bobby Garfield and Hope Davis did an excellent job as well. Director Scott Hicks did an excellant job turning it from script to screen. David Morse also did an excellant job. Hearts in Atlantis is defiantly a movie that you could see five times and still be amazed by it. Even though it didn't do that well at the box office, I think it's because people would rather go see an action flick than a movie about the human spirit, because that is what this is. A great film, with a great cast I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie the first time I saw it in the movies.  I bought it the first day out on sale on dvd.  I just loved the cinematography of the film, it was just beautifully shot!!  The chemistry between hopkins and the young boy was nothing short of perfect and heart-warming.  It is deffently a coming of age film that is way under-rated.  Great adaption of a Stephen King book as well.  I recommend this to any person that is a fan and appreciates excellent cinematography. "},{"Title":"A really great movie.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is one in a string of movies based on Stephen King novels/novellas/short stories, like Apt Pupil, The Green Mile, The Shawshank Redemption, and Stand by Me that actually live up to the book. But we all know the book is always better. I'm very thankful that films like this are being made from SK's works now, after such awful ones like Graveyard Shift or The Dead Zone (The DZ which is a brilliant novel), I've always felt so bad when SK movie don't turn out, as a writer the man is a genuis.Aside from that Anthony Hopkins is very good and moving as Ted Brautigan, a psychic who changes a boy's life, during a summer where he comes of age. Even the kid who played Bobby looks to have a strong future carrer, he did a very good job, as did all the other kids, like the girl who played Carol. This movie is just chocked full of good acting, and the changed plot works BEAUTIFULLY. I'm glad that all the references to King's Dark Tower stories were taken out and replaced with more, down to this earth kind of stuff if you will, because this movie is marketed to a mass audince, whom of which most probably haven't read a Dark Tower nove, and if all the DT things were left in it would lead to MASS confusion. Even with me, who after reading the DT books (good, but not great) is still a little confused. So, naturally I loved the script written for this, very touching and very beautiful.In conclusion, I have to say I loved this movie, powerful performances from all, make this a good film-making classic in my book. Hearts in Atlantis is one movie that I would strongly recommend, if your the type who isn't entertained by only big, thing-blow up-every-other-second blockbusters, but by good film.  "},{"Title":"A surprise.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Films sometimes have ways of sneaking up on us all. They may not seem interesting when viewed in trailer format at the local theater and they may not seem interesting while reading about them in a periodical. What is great about films is that they are always setting somewhere on someone's shelf waiting to be discovered by someone's eye. Hearts Of Atlantis is such a quiet film. I can't remember a film being this subtle with the supernatural and the telling of a story. What I mean by telling of a story is that at no point did I pay attention to the supernatural elements in this film. The characters all had meaning and importance to the story and the film glides along effortlessly. I read alot of novels every year but I have never taken the time to read Stephen King's novel Hearts Of Atlantis. I understand the film is loosely based on a certain section of King's novel. Since so many films have been made from King's work, so many bad ones at that, maybe only taking a section of the novel and bringing it to the screen was the right thing to do. Scott Hicks is a true film maker, one of the best working right now. Anthony Hopkins is so great in this role, I wish he would spend more time on films like this and stop wasting his talent on sequels to The Silence Of The Lambs. Hopkins is quiet and powerful and the young boy who plays opposite Hopkins has a very natural talent. It saddens me that more people didn't go see this film, including myself, and went to see garbage like Pearl Harbor. A quiet film like Hearts Of Atlantis reaches into your heart and makes you realize life changes everyday and not always when we want it to change. "},{"Title":"Deep as the Ocean; Solid as Bed-Rock A Gentle Quest","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To penetrate through sight and sound into the full human adventure implies a profound search . 'Hearts' searches brilliantly -with compelling, gentle strokes. Therein lie its clues to life, identity, friendship, integrity. Its thesis is incomplete; its outline magnificent. Hearts opens the subject; it does not preach; it points to a hidden place where truth and beauty reign immutable... to 'reality without', confirmed by 'reality within'. Hearts reaches the profoundest desires. Searching 'without' and 'within', it is not philosophy or theology- yet, surely, it suggests beginnings of both.  There is a wide spectrum here. There is also a person-centered core. Hearts transcends the ephemeral to pursue the most human of questions. Thereby, it encourages further pursuit and exhibits a classical depth which rings through the ages and into the future. "},{"Title":"How come nobody called the cops on the bully with the bat?","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Infuriating story from a Stephen King book about elderly man with ESP (Anthony Hopkins, in an easy, sly performance) befriending young Bobby (Anton Yelchin), the boy of a single mother who both live downstairs in the same building. William Goldman's mediocre screenplay pokes around, trying to come up with interesting details, but the whole thing is too belabored, with arty directorial flourishes adding nothing (such as the slow-motion photography with Bobby and his friends playing in the river). The focus of the piece is so off that a bullying kid is not only revealed to be a cross-dresser (huh??), he gets away from criminal punishment with a good, stiff beating from vengeful Bobby, while good-hearted Hopkins gets hauled away (again, huh??). The picture doesn't even have the sense to tie its ends together at the finish-line, instead giving us a voice-over dripping with dulled-out sentimentality. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"thought-provoking","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The hearts in Atlantis was an interesting, thoughtful creation. It's about a shy children and an extraordinary stranger's friendship and the hardness of being adult. The performers'character comes through some personal advance. They became more brave,wise, and they start to believe in themselves. It's not a banal fable about LOVE, it's a little bit more this film is a parable about how can things and people affect our life, our predestination and our thinking. The hearts in Atlantis is an abstract, but exiting film! Don't miss the chance to see it! P.S. Have in some hankies( "}{"Title":"I hated this movie.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had to see this movie twice(once with my parents, once with my friends) and it got worse the second time I saw it. My friend read the book by Stephen King and at first I didn't believe him when he told me about it because it was so different.Anyway, I almost fell asleep. It was really boring. Nothing really happened. I expected to be seeing a supernatural thriller. The trailers made it seem that way. His powers didn't have anything to do with the movie.There was also a really cheesy part. This is a sort of crucial moment so... He was running up the a hill carrying his friend against all odds and it was like he was a famous line backer or quarter back or something that the psychic guy told him about. Snore. "},{"Title":"a great coming of age film.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I picked up this film not knowing anything about it, and I'm not a big Anthony Hopkins fan. I loved this movie. I was sad when it was over. I wanted more. It is a wonderful coming of age film full of the whimsy of childhood, the complications of the adult world & a bit of the unexplained. I highly recommend this film. It will make you wish that you were 12 years old again riding your bike on a hot summer day. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but also forgettable","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yet another coming of age story, along the lines of Stephen King's earlier Stand By Me. It holds your interest while you watch, but it becomes somewhat forgettable afterwards. What sets it apart is the heartfelt performances by Anton Yelchin as Bobby Garfield and David Morse who plays Bobby as an adult, Hope Davis as Bobby's mother, and of course Anthony Hopkins as the mysterious Ted. The 1960s atmosphere is genuine, and so is the rapport between Hopkins (in his first major role since reprising Hannibal) and young Yelchin. This film was a breath of fresh air when it came out in October 2001. If you liked Stand By Me, I recommend Hearts In Atlantis. "},{"Title":"All well and good and feel-good and not very demanding, but great acting","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hearts in Atlantis (2001)A nostalgia dipped story about childhood memories and a young boy (and his two friends) struggling for their places in their young world. By its nature, and with the support of some terrific acting, the story will move you. But it is also a somewhat simplified idea of a boy looking for stability and friendship without a father and with a mother more interested in her questionable career.Writer Stephen King knows how to get a series of hooks going in a story, and the one supernatural twist here is that leading man Ted, played by Anthony Hopkins, can read minds. (This has apparently led him to enormous wins at poker, which has made him a target of angry mobsters, though this part of the story is left sketchy.) The boy senses something special in Ted, and their friendship grows to where Ted begins to look out for the boy, protecting and guiding him.And so this is filmed in the late 1950s (or maybe 1960, judging by the most recent cars), and it has a little sweet aura to it all. There is an overlay in contemporary times that is unnecessary, though it wraps things up nicely for people who like that. It's all enjoyable but not very deep or even, surprisingly, very surprising. "},{"Title":"Absolute breathtaking","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The one great benefit that any film based on a Stephen King story has is just that it's based on a Stephen King story. The guy is just such a prodigy of fiction that even if the film version of one of his books doesn't deliver, one can still see the brilliant blueprint lurking beneath the frames. When the filmmakers are successful, however, we get a visually stimulating project founded on the tale he has weaved to support all the other elements. Hearts In Atlantis is based on an anthology volume of his, and in fact the story the film follows isn't even called that, it's actually 'Low Men In Yellow Coats'. I can see why the director went with Hearts In Atlantis though, as it's much more akin to the ethereal, sentimental tone he was going for, and less of an ominous hook. The story itself follows a mysterious man named Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), a recent tenant in the home of young Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin) and his wayward mother (a miscast Hope Davis). The setting is Midwestern America, in the dead heat of a 1950's summer. Bobby spends his days cavorting in the local woodlands with his fastest of friends, Carole (Mika Boorem) and Sully (Will Rothhaar). He takes a shine to Ted though, who pays him a dollar a week to read to him, and warns him of shadowy 'low men', threatening figures who doggedly pursue him for nasty reasons. Ted becomes a father figure for young Bobby, whose mother has questionable ideas about not only raising a son, but taking care of her own affairs. Now the film may seem a bit thinly plotted to some, and there's a reason for that. This story is actually a tiny fragment in a much larger tale, King's magnum opus The Dark Tower. Ted and Bobby have important parts to play in that saga, in which the events of this film are but a sentence long. Some viewers may feel slighted by a lack of context, but the filmmakers here still find a way to make this its own story, crafting a touching coming of age story melded with whispers of otherworldly intrigue. The fusion of beguiling nostalgia and the vague menace that advances on Bobby and Ted makes for a unique tone, something just south of a thriller which can't quite be pinned down by genre labels. Hopkins can be both terrifying and tender depending on the role. Here he is kindness incarnate as a man whose worldly intuition goes beyond telekinesis into the kind of qualities reserved for the best and brightest. Yelchin and Boorem, who would star alongside each other again a few years later in the lacklustre Along Came A Spider, are the superb heart of the film. Yelchin has shown a constant progression of strongly realized, believable work and the quality of his craft can be traced back to this stunning genesis role. Boorem is highly underused these days, and one need only watch her light up the screen with emotional sincerity in this to see why she should be working far more. There's neat supporting work from Tom Bower, Celia Weston, Alan Tudyuk and David Morse as an older version of Bobby who yearns for days gone by. I found myself deeply enjoying this one whilst constantly drawing back to the knowledge and context I have for it via The Dark Tower, but the film on it's own is enough to provide a rewarding experience for anyone who isn't familiar with the multiverse. Amid King's favourite topics and settings are Midwest adolescence, idiosyncratic nooks of Americana and the ever present supernatural aspect, dynamics which Hearts In Atlantis gives us aplenty, along with an open invitation to explore the universe farther, should one want to venture along the path to the Tower. I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't have missed a minute of it. Not for all the world.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Came across the book unexpectedly, and King had me hooked just 10 Minutes into it. I never thought the movie would even remotely come close to satisfying my imagination. But it almost did. Such a magical story. About the movie now. Exceptional casting. Carol's daughter resembled her very much, and young Bobby-o looked just the same as the grown-up Robert. Anthony Hopkins couldn't have done it better. His charm defined the movie. Simply put - great movie, though not as great as the book. I listened to the audiobook version, and they added little pieces of music here and there. And it was such a great thing to listen to. Details were never boring and I finished the book in two sittings, I suppose. "},{"Title":"a bit too slow","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Bobby Garfield (David Morse) attends a funeral. He reminisces in an old house and remembers his childhood. Bobby (Anton Yelchin) is 11 year old living with his widowed mother Liz (Hope Davis). Carol Gerber (Mika Boorem) and Sully (Will Rothhaar) are his best friends. Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) moves into the upstairs apartment at their house. Ted warns Bobby of the Low Men. Bobby starts having special powers and kisses Carol at the fair.This is a very slow moving fantasy mystery drama. Its heart may be in the right place but it's beating very slowly. The childhood part is nice like most Stephen King stories. Yelchin is good but he's not quite adorable enough. Boorem is a winning presence. Rothhaar is rather bland. Hopkins is playing at such low energy settings that it saps energy out of the movie. It's intended to be quiet intensity but it never raises the intensity. It needs more tension, more thrills and more magic. "},{"Title":"Has its heart in the right place","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on Stephen King's novella, 'Hearts' is a coming of age tale; this time focusing on Bobby (Anton Yelchin), a young boy growing up in 60s America. He's without a father and has a workaholic, self absorbed mother (Hope Davis). One day, a mysterious stranger, Ted (Anthony Hopkins), arrives to rent the top floor of the house. From these on, it becomes a truly magical summer for Bobby as he begins growing into manhood, learning love, responsibility and ultimately, courage in oneself, while bonding with Ted, who seems to be in possession of certain 'abilities'.While it won't reinvent the wheel of coming-of-age films, 'Hearts' is still a well produced tale in its own right. Huge part of this goes to.two solid leads in Hopkins and Yelchin; Yelchin is absolutely believable as Bobby, going from brash to caring to loyal to his newfound friend, as many children can be, while giving the role conviction and never sounding whiny. Hopkins is, well, Hopkins; he does great as the enigmatic but friendly stranger, and it's not hard to see why Bobby would look up to him. As for other pros, well, it is masterfully directed by Scott Hicks (Shine), making use of a warm colour palette as befitting the nostalgic-summer vibe of the tale, and Mychael Dynna's score is suitably idyllic and sweet without being overt or bombastic.Now of course, this film's forgotten status is not entirely inexplicable; even with a few bit of great emotional 'punch' throughout, there's no getting around its somewhat formulaic nature. This is very much in keeping with all the tropes of these stories, and never really does anything to break from the mould, so a lot of things you can see coming from a mile away. That, and the wrap around stuff & bits of narration with older Bobby in present times never feels woven in often enough to really matter.Despite that however, I was pleasantly surprised by 'Hearts in Atlantis', and if you enjoyed the more dramatic King adaptations, give this one a whirl. It's simple, sweet and exactly what it says on the tin. Nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"Then we grow up, and our hearts break in two.","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" So it's not a great movie overall, but there's a somewhat special quality to it that veers off the normal Stephen King beaten path. You can watch it at night without having to look over your shoulder to see if there's some manic clown waiting to jump out of the woodwork. There's a low key approach to the mystery of Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) and his special powers, sort of in the vein of a benevolent Leland Gault from Needful Things. Both were able to see things more clearly than normal individuals and used their ability for different purposes. It WAS a little weird the way Hopkins' character zoned out every now and then in the company of his young friend Bobby (Anton Yelchin), which added to the puzzle of the low men and their quest to capture him. The story probably could have been made more compelling with a suspenseful confrontation between Brautigan and his adversaries, but the story was more about Bobby and his growing awareness of life and those around him. Kind of wistful and melancholy in a way but that's the way things are sometimes. Sometimes you just need to keep your eye on the dealer instead of the cards. "},{"Title":"You'll enjoy every minute of it but one word you'll say after the movie, SO?","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" You must watch this movie, acting of Sir Anthony Hopkins and the kid who plays Bobby is intense. Like I said in summary, I enjoyed every second of the movie. But there's a big mystery in the movie and it doesn't appear even at the end. I'm not sure it's a good thing or a bad thing for the movie. Another honourable thing is this movie is between Hannibal(2001) and Red Dragon (2002). So it's really impressive to see Dr.Hannibal Lecter as such a nice guy in the same year. That's the quality of Sir Anthony Hopkins isn't it? D .In some websites they say this is a bad movie but it's definitely not. It's never boring and at the end you're going to be happy and also confused. "}{"Title":"Stephen King and the 1960s","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I haven't as yet read Stephen King's novel Hearts in Atlantis (which, as I understand it, was a compilation of a few stories). But I remember reading King's intro at the beginning, in which he talked about having come of age in the '60s, and how this has influenced his work.Well, I would say that the movie Hearts in Atlantis - based on one of the short stories from the book - gives the that impression. Like Stand by Me and It, the movie portrays working-class children around 1960 whose only escape from the world's unpleasantness is each other. In this case, young Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin) lives with his widowed mother (Hope Davis). Unfortunately, she considers him a nuisance at best she practically ignores him and spends all her money on fancy clothes for herself. But one day, stranger Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) rents the room upstairs. Bobby suspects that there's something unusual, almost magical, about Ted. But who else might know about this? As is the case with King's other looks back at childhood, this one gets told as a flashback, with Bobby's older self (David Morse) thinking about the repercussions of everything that happened. Maybe it's just me, but I think that there was something to that, given that the movie got released a few weeks after September 11. One of the things that we as a country could have considered was how past deeds could have led to 9/11, and how we could have changed certain policies.But maybe that's just me. Overall, I thought that this was a very well done movie. I really got a sense of how Bobby must have been feeling about everything going on in his life, and of his newfound strength. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Movie that inspires","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not only this is a good coming of age movie &#150; but when it finished I had to question myself who actually learned more &#150; Bobby Garfield or me. I felt inspired &#150; somehow I was able to relate a lot of the experience of the boy to my own when I was his age and am wondering now if other people who have seen Hearts of Atlantis would feel the same way? Take only this quote that refers to the first kiss for example It will be the kiss by which all others in your life will be judged&#133; and found wanting.Or that one Why do we always expect home to stay the same? Nothing else does.Before seeing the opening credits I did not know that the movie is based on a book by Stephen King. He is one of my favourite writers and he has that talent not only for horrors but and for coming of age stories &#150; just take Stand by me, Silver bullet , IT and many, many others.Hearts of Atlantis  has crates a unique atmosphere &#150; real one &#150; soon after I started watching it I associate myself with the some characters and somehow knew what the others think &#150; not that am a medium myself &#150; but one can really trace the development of the personages . The acting, the cinematography, the story itself &#150; even the soundtrack itself &#150; were exceptionally good - the ending songs still echoes in my mind. (I remember hearing it in another movie as well) The friendship between the 11 years old Bobby Garfield and Ted Brautigan -the much older stranger that rents an apartment in his house seems to be growing stronger and stronger and stronger. Ted (played remarkably well by Anthony Hopkins) is becoming a role model for Bobby and has such a huge influence on his life that the boys remember their friendship even when he becomes almost as old as his friend once was. ( official web site ) "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another work of Stephen King comes to life on the big screen in the coming of age tale of one fateful summer when a one of the worlds greatets mysteries moves un upstairs. Anthony Hopkins holds this how movie together with an, as always terrific performance as Ted. When Ted moves in upstars he befriends the young boy who lives downstairs. He hires the boy to read him the newspaper every day and watch out for low men. Also giving a great performance is David Morse as the boy all grown up. The movie is emotional and at times often heart warming but due to a weak script and average acting you won't care a great deal for any of the outside characters and leaves you without a logical explanation for anything. Your heart will be please but you will owe your brain an appoligy.    "},{"Title":"How many more disappointments?","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How many more Stephen King novels are going to end up as weak movies, I wonder? It's almost as mysterious as any King novel, that his work simply doesn't transfer well to the cinema screen.I've read every one of his books, several times, and I've yet to see a movie adaptation that did justice to him. Even when a very professional director like Stanley Kubrick gets his hands on a King book, it still turns out to be an inferior film!Hearts in Atlantis is another example. It alternated between slavish mimicry of some parts of the novel, and then total departure from it. Key scenes from the book were skimmed over like driving fast through a small town late at night.The only good thing about the film was the too-brief appearance of David Morse at the beginning. Ten minutes of that guy was better than the entire remainder of the film. "},{"Title":"Bring on the Aliens!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well acted, competently directed, beautifully photographed and not a spark of originality in it.I was unfortunate enough to see this as the 'surprise film' at the London Film Festival (November 2001).  I remember watching the first 5 minutes of it and thinking. Oh god, this isn't another of those adolescent rites-of-passage movies set in middle America in the late 50's or early 60's. But it was. Wasn't this started with 'Stand by Me' and finally done to death with 'The Wonder Years'?To try and hide this fact, the story was supplemented by some guff about Anthony Hopkins as this mysterious psychic being pursued by mysterious government forces. You know the ones faceless suits, driving round in sinister cars, always in dark alleys, filmed in silhouette, dangling cars keys from their pockets, oh sorry that was 'ET' wasn't it, chain-smoking manically, oh no that was 'X'Files' wasn't. You get the idea.I was hoping some huge alien space-ships would come down and zap 'em all..No such luck.  "},{"Title":"Where was Stephen King?","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have been a fan of Stephen Kings writing for the better party of my life and I have noticed one constant fact.  The movie plot is never anywhere close to the original story.  I realize more than any one how difficult it is to recopy the authors vision but, come on.  This movie didn't even try. The book Hearts in Atlantis was NOT a collection of short stories.  It was a fully developed book.  The proof in this fact is Part 2 carried on where Part 1 stopped, and so on and so on.  If they still wanted to use the title they should have explained how it came into play.  Yes, I will admit I did enjoy what I saw on screen until I realized where it ended.  As a writer myself, I was able to put myself in Stephen Kings position.  If someone had taken something you had written and made a movie of 1 fifth of what was there, wouldn't you be offended?  Why bother saying the movie is based on the book if you don't even use the book? "},{"Title":"Hopkins At His Best","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I Saw Hearts In Atlantis Last night and I must admit to being a massive Tony Hopkins fan.The film itself set almost in it's entirety in one man's flashback to his childhood held my attention in to the small hours of the night.The story of one man's affect on a boys life was gripping throughout.Hopkins was excellent as ever as his acting seems to be in every film I've seen of his, moody and with a touch of sadness that was present in Silence of the lambs, hannibal and Meet Joe Black and again here.My definition of a good film is one where you experience emotion through it and I for one certainly had the tears welling up by the end of the film.David morse was excellent again portraying a hidden sadness as he discovers his childhood friend and sweetheart has died.The children actors were excellent much much better than those in Harry Potter.But it is Hopkins that holds the film together he has a screen presence every bit as good as deniro, paccino and nicholson and an Oscar for this film in my mind isn't unwarranted.This film is well worth watching if you want to be moved and I give it a 9.9/10. "},{"Title":"Atlantis with a heart","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING>>>>>>>>>>>>SPOILERBestselling books by renowned writer Stephen King often make bad movies. This however, is one of those rare exceptions. Hopkins plays an ordinary guy with perhaps a dark past. What he really has is a special gift that bad people want to get there hands on. A simple story that works wonderfully. Even the sad ending makes you leave with a satisfied feeling of how precious friendship is.  "},{"Title":"Leads to nowhere","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS (in fact this review is one big spoiler) Not a good film.  There is some mystery and interesting foreshadowing at the beginning but they all lead to, well nothing.  I was really expecting a clever ending that would bring esemplastic fruition to the old man's weird behavior and preternatural abilities, the ominous low-men and the little boy's apparent psychic abilities, but it was not to be.  Add to this the total lack of character development for the other boy (whose ball glove, bequeathed to his friend in his will, is the impetus for the whole thing) and for the bully (hey guys--bad guys need to be interesting---HINT show him alone, away from the characters involved in a some activity that explains his psychological stance). Also the scene where the girl is hit by the bully is bumbling and silly. Why did she have to be carried.This film obviously has many wholes that are filled in the book.  The filmmakers forced this weak adaptation.  "},{"Title":"The movie was perfectly understandable without reading the book previous to it.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say, being an avid Anthony Hopkins/ Stephen King fan, this movie more than lived up to my expectations.Many people who have read the book and viewed the movie afterwards say this movie is easy to understand, some wondering if, in fact, it would be comprehendible to those who have not read the book.  I can safely say that this movie is quite easy to understand and interesting enough without reading the book.  I took the liberty to read the book after seeing this movie, and answered a couple of questions I'd wondered about.  I do regret, however, that the end of the movie is mighty confusing and leaves you wondering what it was supposed to mean.  I myself was found wondering this and was quite disappointed to find that the book ending completely differed from that of the movie ending.  I much preferred the book ending, which added the sinister supernatural King force, which is always evident in his novels.  I was also quite disappointed to find that there were 4 parts which had not been recognised in the movie (I suppose you could say one of them partially was, but not really).  It is, however, miraculous that they could turn something that had NOTHING to do with Hearts in Atlantis into something that made sense.  The Hearts in Atlantis section of the book was excellent (I much preferred Low Men in Yellow Coats, the story that is portrayed in the movie to any other part).All in all, this is an extremely confusing review, but what I'm trying to say is that the movie was excellent, whether or not the book has been read. I usually prefer seeing the movie before reading the book, because it fuels my motivation for reading the book.  And neither the book or the movie is to be missed. "}{"Title":"Burdens of a Visionary is the Theme of the Movie","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story shows the difficulties that the erstwhile blessings of the visionary entail.  One never quite realized it but of course as soon as a national security agency is aware of a visionary in the nation it will demand that he serve them out of citizen duty!  Anthony Hopkins consequently portrays a man living with hesitance, bewilderment, and anxiety, with realistic depth that forges a lasting influence for the history of the movies.... To me, he seemed especially tangible.  Who laid down the laws of nature, anyway?...There is nothing particularly dainty or twee, as one reviewer here thinks, in this movie.  While the children are experiencing typical childhood joys those joys during that time are qualified by the presence of a very strange man, as girl Carol Gerber describes him at one point.  He is a visionary, one whom their natural parents and schoolfriends could not expect or understand or accept. Some other found the movie sentimental -- but that is only possible if he or his friends experienced childhood in the presence of a visionary, right?...And why would anybody say that the movie teams up Anthony Hopkins with Stephen King of all people when of all people Anthony Hopkins has starred in such Stephen King-like movies as Silence of the Lambs Elephant Man Dracula and so forth throughout much of his movie career?!...  I dignify these reviewers with answers when they hardly merit a peep. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We all go back to our childhood; one way or another. There are memories; some good and some bad. Life is connected that way, that we can step into steady stream of our past! There is so much bad around us that it is amazing that there is some good after all. This story is about an ordinary man with an extra-ordinary gift of psychic powers. People want to abuse his powers for their own purpose and he is tired of it and the world. What is amazing is that he does some good with his gift for two little children; which makes their lives more memorable; at least for them. I hope that there is a gentleman in every kid's life at some point in time! Dah. That is us. We can be that person! People will see this movie and go back with different emotions, understanding and parallels. It has done its part. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We all go back to our childhood; one way or another. There are memories; some good and some bad. Life is connected that way, that we can step into steady stream of our past! There is so much bad around us that it is amazing that there is some good after all. This story is about an ordinary man with an extra-ordinary gift of psychic powers. People want to abuse his powers for their own purpose and he is tired of it and the world. What is amazing is that he does some good with his gift for two little children; which makes their lives more memorable; at least for them. I hope that there is a gentleman in every kid's life at some point in time! Dah. That is us. We can be that person! People will see this movie and go back with different emotions, understanding and parallels. It has done its part. "},{"Title":"If not a must-see, it is at least a must-rent.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With shades of Stand By Me, this film definitely stands by itself.  This movie couples solid acting with an intriguing plot.  While it doesn't capture the nostalgia and warmth that S.B.M.enveloped our hearts with, this film does conjure some lost magic inside us all.Anthony Hopkins is outstanding in this role, and remains the most memorable character in the movie even though his screen-time is secondary to the central character Bobby Garfield.Also, the adaptation of the book is relatively faithful.  Some may be disappointed however.  If you have read the book, you'll most likely enjoy the movie, perhaps from only the standpoint of curiosity.  If you haven't read the book and have very little spare time, by all means see the movie.In sum, this movie has appeal to a diverse audience.  While some may like it more than others, I still feel that it is a wholly worthwhile experience that may stick with others more than some.    "},{"Title":"Watch Stand By Me instead!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It seems that the Stephen King machine is slowing down of late, and this is perfectly represented by 'Hearts In Atlantis'. Treading familiar ground we have yet another tale of childhood innocence, both lost and gained, of a stranger in town whose visit will affect everyone he meets, and of a series of events that will change the course of lives. Unfortunately, the events here really are not that magnificent.The film is nice enough, with a solid cast, and a fairly conventional 60's style, with the regular quota of jukebox hits thrown in for good measure. But ultimately it fails to move because it is just too twee for it's own good. The sentimentality that plagues most movie adaptations of King's novels is prevalent here too, and the 'revelation' of the stranger's story is a total let-down.  Someone has posted a review citing that the supernatural element has been taken out of the story - this, to me, seems to be the fatal flaw, as without that, there is no magic in this movie at all. "},{"Title":"Boring meaningless film","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw this film at the London Film Festival and I am having to write this review to try to stop people from seeing this movie. It must be one of the worst films I have seen this year (it would rate alongside Planet of the Apes & Hannibal for Turkey of the year). It is a piece of sentimental slush which has little hidden depth or meaning.The film is based on a Stephen King book. Without wanting to give the plot away, just imagine the film as a hybrid between The Green Mile and You Can Count On Me, but failing in every level compared to these two classic films. The actors in this film are annoying, especially the main character (David).Throughout the film I thought Is this ever going to get going? and then after an hour and a half the film ends leaving me with the question Is that it?.Just do not waste over an hour of your life watching this. Go and see You Can Count On Me or The Green Mile instead.  "},{"Title":"An interesting story told well. . . .","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting story, very well told, simple in execution.If made with unknown actors this could have been a breakout at any major film festival-- done this way with major actors it should be a long term great rental title. "},{"Title":"blown away... powerful untainted Love..","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If one has passions for spiritual matters then one will find this movie much more pleasant then ordanary man.  The movie is all about love and not sensual passionate love but innocent real love.  It is amazing.  It has many supernatural phenomenon which seems accurate enough.  Do not miss this one. Especially if your are attracted to the mystical spirit of love. "},{"Title":"Hearts in Atlantis pulls at the heart strings and reminds us all that ones childhood should not be taken for granted.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is one  of those fims that they don't make enough of anymore. It's so rare to see a film of pure brilliance ranging from the wardrobe, set design, cinematography, and an amazing performances from the entire cast. Each minute of the film was entertaining and spell binding. Hearts in Atlantis reminds me why I love to go to the movies. "},{"Title":"I found this movie interesting, well acted and pleasurable","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have not been to many movies the past year because of the atrocious trash presented in most of them. Blow-em up, disfunctional people, drug promotion and a generally anti-family and anti-real people have me fed up. I did like Captain Correlli and prior to that Space Cowboys. Hearts in Atlanta was pleasurable and enjoyable from the git go. The score was wonderful, a lot of real good music and songs from the past. The acting was first rate, particularly Anthony Hopkins and Bobby as a boy. I thought the mother overplayed her part somewhat. The plot was a little bit hard to swallow but then this was a movie not a documentary and I just went along with the flow and found it enjoyable. The ending was a little pat but so what. The movie trailers and all of the promotion for this movie was way off base; they tried to sell it as a supernatural thriller which it was not. It was a viewer friendly movie with only one swear word, nothing in the way of severe violence and nothing being blown up. I thoroughly enjoyed the depiction of the homes and the neighborhood in their heyday; how normal it looked to one who is 76 years old. Also, the depiction of the clothing, furniture, etc was great and I thoroughly enjoyed the automobiles, particularly in the last scene that of a Rambler, about a 64 model I would say. Hey it was all entertaining and isn't that what movies are supposed to be about? "}{"Title":"Hearts in Atlantis  A  Hallmark  Card?","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why is is that so often snappy movie titles do little to tell you about a film even after you've seen it?  This movie is a red herring I expected a mystical, mythical, even transformational experience, and was left with only the mundane.  I was a child in the 50's so I don't get all mushy over a Norman Rockwell version of what it was like to be a child then, nor do I accept a Disney plot approach to portraying the bad people.  This film boasts Anthony Hopkins and great cinematography. Most Hopkins films have great cinematography; I suggest you save your money and rent one of his other films.  This film doesn't have its heart in the right place.  "},{"Title":"Another Gem from Anthony Hopkins","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is one of those films tat brings you back to your childhood/ the innocence of childhood. I like the characters in this movie a lot, they were memorable. There were also a few unexpected moments in the film, like when they played classic tunes like The Twist by Chubby Checker ( did i mention this picture takes place in the 50s?)Hearts in Atlantis is a movie that will bring you back to simpler times, your childhood is what i mean. This film also delivers a great performance by Anthony Hopkins. I have not see him do a role quite as good as this one in a little while. I highly recommend this film because it is probably one of the only good movies out in theatres today. Unlike films like Corky Romano and Glitter this one is worth seeing and worth you 9 or 5 dollars.I give this film *** out of ***** stars.   "},{"Title":"A well told, well made tale just lacking two vital parts..","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... namely a beginning and an end.A shame considering the cast and cinematography are excellent. It contains all the typical Stephen King rites of passage tale elements (including a character who seems to be moonlighting from Stand By Me) with good characters and an authentic 60's atmosphere.The story however lacks any real thrust, there are no high points or sense that we are approaching any major revelations. It glides along nicely which is entertaining but leaves you feeling unfulfilled and with a lot of questions and plot points adrift.I haven't read the book but with this movie the supernatural element is so slight and ineffectual that it could have been removed easily and you would probably have been left with a very similar (and probably more satisfying) movie.And don't expect to understand what the title means either... "},{"Title":"Compelling, but doesn't deliver","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING! Spoilers includedBetter bring your Kleenex to this movie. It is very emotional and powerful. The movie is about an 11 year old boy who is dealing with the problem of a mother who does not love him and a dead father. (The movie does not demonstrate this too clearly at first. The viewer is forced to imply this from a combination of situations) He finds support in a new person who moves into the upstairs of his house named Ted. Ted is not only a support source, he is a psychic. He is sought out by the little men who are coming for him.I found at the end of the movie that the emotional power and events in the movie could not be related to any straightforward point. The purpose of the movie is still quite unclear to me. The best that I could derive was that it was dealing with the issue of true love, and if this was the case then it does not deal with it well.I argue this case because love seems to be the only unifying issue throughout the entire film. The love that Bobby seeks from his mother, and eventually gains, the love that Bobby seeks from Ted and eventually loses, the love that existed between him and his girlfriend that disappears after he moves way.The movie demonstrates this love and how it can be shaped or changed, but never reaches the point of defining it. As he pedals his bike at the end of the movie, I feel that we have been shafted not only this pivotal definition but a strong feeling that Bobby still loves Carole and that Bobby still loves Ted.If you are following this definition, then you will logically conclude that the massive suspense created throughout the movie delivered close to absolutely nothing at all. You feel like you've witnessed something powerful, you might have even cried, but you got nothing out of it! There was no meaning.This is a good date movie and is better seen with someone then alone. I give it 5/10 "},{"Title":"Vapidity","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis leaves a lot to be desired. Not that a movie has to move me but this 2 hours or so of total pretentiousness left me asking what was the point and why was it made? There isn't a hint of a plot, assuming of course that the movie is linear which I'm guessing this one was supposed to be, nor did I care one bit about the characters since none projected any kind of feeling or identity. The only redeeming value here was the score with lots of wonderful tunes from the early 60's and the nicely done cinematography. For me, it's 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Vapidity","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis leaves a lot to be desired. Not that a movie has to move me but this 2 hours or so of total pretentiousness left me asking what was the point and why was it made? There isn't a hint of a plot, assuming of course that the movie is linear which I'm guessing this one was supposed to be, nor did I care one bit about the characters since none projected any kind of feeling or identity. The only redeeming value here was the score with lots of wonderful tunes from the early 60's and the nicely done cinematography. For me, it's 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Stay away from this dud.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is a muddled, pretentious, bore of a film. The characters are so thinly drawn and the story so pointless that it practically evaporates on the screen. Anthony Hopkins, an actor I greatly admire, could've phoned this one in. The children are way too Hollywood to be believable and the whole thing seems extremely self-conscious. The cinematography is very nice, but everything else fails. "},{"Title":"Almost October and finally a movie to cheer about","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For you not like the book critics this is a field day movie, but you know, it is the essence of Mr. King's wonderful story and that is all it tries to be. To do the whole thing would take four hours. I never thought I could ever see Anthony Hopkins and not see Hannibal Lector, but this is Sir Anthony at his understated best.  There could have been some transition scenes to help those who didn't read the book to catch up to the movies actual direction and point, but let's not split hairs. This is a moving and delightfully presented movie and you ought to go see it.  "},{"Title":"Another lousy King movie","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview.  This movie is a major disappointment! I don't know what I really expected though.  How annoying is it to have the characters continually falling out of the bottom and sides of the frame?!!  Also, the directing is fairly pretentious.  Hopkins takes a back seat in this one and his co-stars do not do enough to save the story. In General, the kids look like they are acting and they certainly do not act like children at all.  I gave it a six. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful, Flawed Gem","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is another good Stephen King adaptation in the vein of The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.  It's nowhere near as good as those films, but it's in the same ballpark.All the usual great elements for a good King non-horror romp are there.  A gorgeous Eastern America setting, vintage oldie rock n' roll hits on the soundtrack, and a mysterious story.  Anthony Hopkins is a delight to watch as Ted the stranger who wanders into a troubled young boy's life.The screenplay by the sometimes great, sometimes not so great William Goldman needed another run through the old typewriter, but all in all it's a touching story that will touch even the most bitter s.o.b. like me.  The final scene and the scene of Ted being taken away by men in a car are particularly heart wrenching.But like I said, a flawed gem is what this film is.  Over and out, once again, baby blue... "}{"Title":"Oscar-worthy performances and beautiful cinematography highlight all-too-brief film","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal) stars as Ted Brautigan, the wise and mysterious old man who moves in upstairs from Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin) in Hearts in Atlantis, one of the best Stephen King adaptations I've seen.The film begins with an older Bobby (David Morse) who has returned to his hometown after the sudden death of his childhood friend Sully-John. While reminiscing in his old boarded up apartment he shared with his mother (Hope Davis) years ago, he begins to remember the stranger and the year that changed his life forever. Using a method not unsimilar to The Green Mile, we are transported to the day kindly Ted Brautigan moves his paper bags in upstairs. Bobby meets him and introduces him to a neighborhood where nothing goes on, but as the year progresses things do begin to happen, and Bobby begins the inevitable change from boyhood to manhood.Ted Brautigan quickly becomes a mentor for the maturing Bobby, first pointing out that the adult library card his mother gave him as a birthday present (as opposed to a new bike) could be a richer gift than he expects. He also notices Bobby's budding attraction for his friend Carol (Mika Boorem), and even saves him from the neighborhood bully.Ted is not without his mysteries, however-he goes into trances and has peculiar moments of psychic insight. In addition to the paper reading job he gives Bobby is an instruction to watch for signs of low men, government agents who Ted senses are after his spiritual gift.Anthony Hopkins is so incredibly powerful in his role that even an innocuous monologue describing Bronco Nagurski's last football game becomes an emotional tour-de-force. We feel from him a growing sadness as the low men, combined with Bobby's mistrustful mother, threaten to force him to move and end his grandfatherly relationship with Bobby. His performance is nearly matched by Yelchin, who is convincing both in his innocence, such as his first kiss with Carol, to his mature steadfastness he shows his mother during the end sequence.On top of the moving story is the beautiful cinematography by the late Peter Sobocinski. The shots of suburban Harwitch look more like an elven city in a faraway forest than in a town in Connecticut. The sequence with the very gorgeous Mika Boorem as Carol at her birthday party are at a breathtaking best.The main problem I had with Hearts in Atlantis is its brevity. At only just over an hour and a half, Bobby's development seemed forced, and other characters just weren't developed at all (Sully-John, the friend whose funeral prompts the entire narrative, is hardly explored during the film). We never see Ted and Bobby's love grow as it does in the novel-it just sort of happens, as does Bobby's change of feeling about Carol. Most unfortunate is the brief treatment of the low men who are after Ted, a subplot so full of holes it nearly sinks the entire film. These men travel in large groups, drive audacious automobiles, and communicate to each other by use of lost pet notices. Ted can somehow sense their location, and inexplicably tells Bobby to blank out his mind whenever they are near. These elements would add suspense and fear if the agents were supernatural in nature (as they are in the novel), but, since the script implies that they are government intelligence, their actions are inexcusably ludicrous.All faults in Hearts in Atlantis, however, are covered by the heartfelt central theme and awesome performances from the leads. Though I wanted the movie to be a bit longer, it ran just enough to pull all heartstrings in just the right way. Highly recommended film- 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Is a picture worth 1,000 words?","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  They say a picture is worth a thousand words, but as is often the case with films based upon books, Hearts in Atlantis can't quite capture the essence of Stephen King's nostalgic yet edgy prose. Hearts in Atlantis is based upon King's collection of short stories about kids living in the 1960s. The film mainly focuses on one story, Low Men in Yellow Coats, which was adapted by another master writer, William Goldman (whose next project is also a King adaptation -- Dreamcatcher). Lots of elements from the story are used -- from eleven-year-old Bobby Garfield's (Anton Yelchin, Along Came a Spider) Schwinn obsession, to a trip to the carnival where Bobby and his friends ride a roller coaster that makes them feel, as King put it, simultaneously sure they were going to live forever and die immediately. Bobby's childhood is not ideal. His embittered, widowed mother (Hope Davis, Mumford) is selfish and stingy. For Bobby's birthday she gives him a library card instead of the coveted Schwinn, but still manages to glean from her meager income enough dollars to spend on new dresses. Not unlike King's Stand By Me, Hearts' focus is on friendship and growing up, first kisses, bullies, the loss of innocence, and, a carrot of the unknown dangling just out of reach. In Stand, it was the search for a dead body allegedly rotting by the railroad tracks; in Hearts, it's the possession of a strange mental power that is never fully explained. The possessor of that power is Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins, Hannibal), a soft-spoken Englishman, and a newcomer to the neighborhood. In the short story, Ted is being hunted by yellow-jacketed men; monsters from King's Dark Tower novels who take over a shady part of town. In the movie, the villains are shadowy, trench-coated government MIB types. The pace is slow -- too slow at times, but that is the mark of director Scott Hicks (cases in point Snow Falling on Cedars and Shine -- both fairly good movies, as is Hearts, but not exactly rigid theatre-chair fare). The cinematography, by the recently deceased Piotr Sobocinski (Angel Eyes), is dreamy yet realistic. Everything seems just right for the period. The sets, the clothing, the dialogue, the soundtrack; it all works. What doesn't work is the supernatural element. It's been said every movie is really just a boy and his dog story, and perhaps one could say Hearts is the memoir of a a boy and his psychic, but to pull it off successfully, I believe the supernatural element deserved more attention. As it is, it's such a minor, undeveloped subplot that it might as well have been left out altogether. Aside from the sometimes numbing passage of time, one thing that irritated me about Hearts was the passed torch of repeated dialog from one character to another. Perhaps it was supposed to be touchingly ironic. Or perhaps it was done to make sure the audience hasn't nodded off. (I'm not saying that Hearts is a bad movie, and despite its languid, glacial pace, it's not boring; I just think it's better suited to home-viewing.) Truly the only reason to see Hearts in the theatre is Sir Anthony Hopkins. In my opinion he is one of, if not the, greatest actor living today. There is just something about him that makes you like him and want to know him, whether he is a cunning cannibal or a root beer swilling psychic on the lam. In the care of anyone other than Hopkins, much of the dialog and certainly the telepathic trances, would fly way over the top -- but Hopkins keeps things in believable check. Another reason to see Hearts is Mika Boorem (also from Along Came A Spider), who plays Bobby's budding young girlfriend, Carol. She projects a fiery yet playful character who is tempered by a sweet, refreshing innocence. It's a long time in coming but Goldman, experienced storyteller that he is, understands that eventually there has to be some conflict in a movie, so the loose knots of Bobby's childhood come undone. The people Bobby loves -- his mom, Ted, and Carol -- are all violated in different ways and desperately, valiantly, Bobby does everything in his power to help them. When the film comes to an end, there is little resolution of the conflicts; instead there's a leap forward into the present, in which grownup Bobby (David Morse, Proof of Life) has a completely implausible meeting with Carol's daughter, which, supposedly, is to give him closure. That courtesy closure, I'm afraid, isn't extended to the audience.  "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie..","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just had the chance to see a prevue this past Friday. Needless to say I wasn't disappointed. Sir Anthony Hopkins delivers another unforgettable performance as Ted Brautigan. Young Anton Yelchin gives a wide eyed view of a kid trapped in a small town where nothing happens, that is until an old man arrives with a shopping bag looking for a room to rent. An old man with a special gift that will soon change his life. My only regret is reading the book before seeing the movie. The screenplay by William Goldman leaves a little info out. The idenity of the low men are never really covered in the movie like the book, and they are really, really different low men. If the movie was just a little longer in length I would have like to have seen an ending like the one in the book.  Who knows maybe they shot the same ending, but it wound up on the cutting room floor. Maybe we'll just have to wait for the DVD to find out if director Scott Hicks did indeed film it. Never the less it is a great family movie to see. I highly recommend it. It has Oscar written all over it. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to Steven King","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a disgrace to Steven King.  Evidence that Hollywood can take a fantastic novel and regurgitate it into a sappy picture that does little justice to the original work.  This film proves that some novels should be let alone.  And to make this film even worse, the cast was pitiful! Anthony Hopkins in his driest performance ever acting opposite two children who would have more effect in Welsh's jelly commercials.  F. "},{"Title":"Close, and better than most, but ultimately falls a bit short.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Though he is best known for his horror stories, it is his more traditional stories which have been best adapted to the film screen. From the classic The Shawshank Redemption to the heartwrenching (if slightly overlong) The Green Mile, to Stand By Me, to The Running Man, Kings non-horror narratives have always proven good reads and have been adapted into films that have all had different levels of box office success, but which have all proven entertaining in their own right.The latest King book to be adapted to the screen is Hearts in Atlantis, the story of a widow, Elizabeth Garfield (Hope Davis)  and her son, Bobby (Anton Yelchin), whose lives are changed when a mysterious stranger moves into their house to rent an upstairs apartment in Connecticut in 1960. The stranger, Ted Brautigan, is played by Anthony Hopkins.In his eleventh year, Bobby is disappointed when his mother does not buy him the bicycle he asked for for his birthday. Instead, she gives him an adult library card. His mother claims that she does not have the money, that her late husband left her debt-ridden. Yet, the mother has a closet full of new (and obviously expensive) dresses.Bobby, who plays with Carol (Mika Boorem) and Sully (Will Rotthaar), befriends Ted. Ted offers Bobby a job that will pay him the princely sum of one dollar per week. He is to read the paper to Ted--who claims that his eyesight is failing--and also, he is to look out for the low men who are searching for Ted. The kids spend their summer at a local park and deal with neighborhood bullies.Ted, who occasionally goes into catatonic states, is psychic and he helps Bobby realize that Bobby has a similar ability. Bobby grows quite attached to Ted, who not only becomes a sort of surrogate father to Bobby, but who also allows Bobby to learn much about his past and his future.The movie, adapted to the screen by legendary screenwriter William Goldman (Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid) and directed by Scott Hicks (Snow Falling on Cedars), had the potential to be a classic (and based on the reaction from the older audience in attendance, it will likely be a huge hit.) Languidly paced (though not overlong), the film reaches an interesting (if not unsurprising climax) and then has a final heartwrenching coda.Why did it not reach the lofty heights to which it aspired? Many will want to blame Hicks direction and some will argue that Yelchin's performance was a bit wooden. I do not agree with those criticisms. Hicks did the best he could with the material and I was surprised that he did not overdirect this film (like he did Snow Falling on Cedars.) The acting was solid. Yelchin played the part of naive kid discovering the world around him well and the talented Boorem has a wonderful screen presence.The reason that this film, which while solid, cannot ultimately be considered a smashing success, lies directly at the feet of Goldman. Without spoiling the film, Goldman's inability to explain the sudden, dramatic, and ultimately implausible fundamental change in the character of one of the film's protagonists nearly ruins the film. He builds up a layered portrait of the character throughout the film and then, in a few poorly-written scenes, expects the audience to believe that this person has overnight changed 180 degrees in their behavior and actions. Fortunately, this attempt to end the film neatly does not ruin it. The coda is touching enough, and the rest of the film is strong enough (with a few magical moments), to make it worth recommending, with the caveat that many of you will be tremendously let down by the film's resolution.Hearts in Atlantis reminds me a bit of last year's The Contender in that, it too came so close that you rooted for the film to pay off, even when it ultimately could not. It is better than most films out today, but too flawed to be the Oscar contender that so many will want it to be. "},{"Title":"Uplifting, chilling....","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is a nostalgic, uplifting look back at everyone's childhood. It's a story about life in the sixties; who we'll miss, who we'll forget, and that strange time right between childhood and adulthood, with a supernatural twist.Bobby Garfield has an ordinary childhood, skipping through the forests, getting lost in books, and hanging around with his two best friends Carol and Sully-John. One day, a strange man named Ted Brauttigan moves into the apartment above him. On sight his selfish, greedy mother doesn't like him. I don't trust people who move their things in paper bags, she tells her son. One night, when his mother is working late, Ted offers him a job to keep a look out for the Low Men, strange people pursuing Ted, who apparently want something that he has. After this, Bobby finds out something about Ted, and something about himself, that will change his life forever.The movie is based on the novel by Stephen King, which has much less emphasis on his trademark supernatural horror. While good, the film doesn't succeed in the way the Frank Darabont's takes on King novels work in the sense that they capture exactly how much the reader of King's books care about the characters, and how much the character care about each other. While watching the movie, it seemed somewhat rushed, as if they either cut it for runtime or they wanted to cut the chase and make sure the movie wasn't slow. This wasn't necessary.Scott Hicks directed this working with the color and movement of the camera with grace and intelligence. His style is much more dreamy than Darabont's, and it's almost refreshing to see a new director's take on a dramatic King adaption.A movie like this one has to be carried by the actors, and for the most part this one succeeds. Anton Yechlin is nice as Bobby, establishing the character, but occasionally delivering some of his lines slightly less believable than he has made the character, but makes up for this in the climax. Anthony Hopkins is genius in the Brauttigan role, breaking far away for the Hannibal role and sinking nicely into the friendly neighbor that is Ted Brauttigan. Hope Davis pulls off Bobby's selfish mother, and Mika Boorem is perfect for the part of Carol.Many details are left out of the book that make Bobby's adaption of the gift that Ted has much more symbolic. The Lord of the Flies isn't even mentioned, and that played a major role in the symbolism. The Low Men's identities are also given away much too early in the film, and you wish that you found out closer to the end as you did in the book.Overall, the movie was very well done with very nice performances and directing from Scott Hicks, who has a way with the camera and color. William Golding's script could have been polished up a tad, to put more emphasis on the relationships of Carol, Bobby, and Sully (who fades away less than halfway).I have a feeling this film will be loved by many, as it's a very uplifting and heartwarming coming of age drama, equipped with a few shots that will just give you the chills. But there's one thing I promise you. When you exit this movie, you will be either crying or smiling about how life used to be, and how vulnerable we all were as children. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't have missed it for the whole world . . .","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can I just say, wow?  I really liked the book . . .  but I don't remember it being this touching.  Maybe it was the fact that the book had so many ties to 'Nam and I'm too young for that (never had to live through it).  The movie stripped  most of that away.  Instead, we get the first story from the book with plot points thrown in from the other stories-- and what an amazing job done pulling it off!  Without a doubt, it's right up there with The Shawshank Redemption.  I really can't say more about the movie, except that the casting is perfect-- they really bring the characters of the book to life.  Do yourself a favor right now in this season of movie crapola-- see this movie!  Noodge. "},{"Title":"It's about time","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've waited all summer for a movie to come along which was worthy of my time. Oh, sure, there was the competent Baby Boy, and A.I. was interesting but a bit short of brilliant. But I hadn't left a movie with a smile on my face, thinking I'd really seen something worth watching, since the extraordinary Memento back in May. That is, until Hearts in Atlantis. The movie could be seen as three intersecting stories, detailing 11-year-old Bobby Garfield's relationships with three people in his life. The first one is Bobby (Anton Yelchin) and his mother, Elizabeth Garfield, played flawlessly by Hope Davis. Bobby's father died when he was only 5, and his mother never wastes an opportunity to remind her son that she can't give him money because his father didn't exactly leave us well off, you know. Bobby is constantly frustrated by this oft-repeated chorus, but continues to defend his mother even when she buys expensive dresses right after telling him how poor they are. His mother may be selfish, but it seems clear they love each other. Next is Bobby's relationship with their new upstairs neighbor Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins). Hopkins is, as usual, right on top of his game as a kind old man who has some sort of special mental power. He can see what people are thinking, and might be able to see the future and heal people's sickness. This is a little vague, mostly because the movie downplayed the supernatural aspects of the plot. Also, Ted can pass along some of his mental power to anyone who touches him, which results in a few semi-dangerous moments for Bobby. This was more troublesome in the book, however. Ted is trying to avoid the low men, who are said to be after something he has, presumably his mental prowess. Finally, the most poignant part of the story may be Bobby's close friendship with Carol Gerber (Mika Boorem). One of King's strengths, shown best in Stand By Me, is his ability to tell stories very well through the eyes of a child. The growing love between Carol and Bobby is told beautifully and more than a few people will relate to the idea of a first love and a first kiss and how you will never forget either. In the midst of an awful summer for movies, Hearts in Atlantis is like ice water to a man crawling through the desert. Cool, refreshing and absolutely what the doctor ordered. Grade 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"A bit eccentric, but marvelously crafted.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The plot itself is a bit on the strange side - government agents in black cars looking for psychics by posting anonymous lost dog posters around town. Can you sense the Stephen King? But this did not occur to me until AFTER the movie was finished.The dialog was so well-scripted, and the scenes so rich, that any oddities were forgotten. I often caught myself smiling in wonder at the beauty of it all. A film of love, nostalga, and with a message to live life to its fullest. I highly recommend it for those looking for a thinking movie, and an escape of the tragedies of late. "},{"Title":"just mediocre","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" a mediocre movie based on a mediocre book by stephen king the story of the book is loosely related to the dark tower cycle ... or better said - there are references on the dark tower in the book, but since it doesn't happen much and nothing is revealed the book lives only on kings ability to keep you interested by creating a strong mood and describing his characters well.the movie is very similar, only it's Hopkins who keeps it all alive. the dark tower references are missing, but this is not a real problem, for king trashed the cycle with the last book anyway and it really is not important for the story here.the movie, like the book has a strong mood, also like the book it isn't happening much and nothing is revealed, so at the end you ask yourself what you have missed ... well, nothing at all - it's just this. a little mystery, a lot of all-day life - that's all.curiously it's still enjoyable, just not very memorable. "}{"Title":"director fails his film","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really wanted to like this film, but I just don't.Hopkins turns in a solid performance, and the situation offers all kinds of opportunities for drama and for comic turns; but the finished film fails to take advantage of any of these opportunities.Hopkins plays a psychic hiding out from US intelligence agents. Now, there are a hundred and one movies you can imagine using this plot foundation - but this isn't one of them. In fact, just about NOTHING is made of Hopkins' psychic abilities, except to say he has them and occasionally wins a bet with them. Oh, come on! That he's on the lam from the CIA can also be used to open any number of doors back to the paranoia of the '50s/early '60s - and nothing is made of this either.That leaves us with a minor domestic drama 'with heart'. But on that level, the film fails too. The general tone and construction of the film is pleasant enough, except that it is far too derivative of the much better Stand By Me and other similar coming-of-age films. There are unresolved tensions through-out the film - I don't believe for a second that a kid would so quickly forgive his mom for betraying a family friend; and there's a confrontation with a class bully that comes too little, too late to accomplish any good. Finally, I agree with those who say the actors are generally miscast. We might be able to forgive this if the film were better directed; instead the director clearly expects the actors to work the miracle, but they can't, they're just doing their jobs. Which means of course the director isn't doing his.Throughout the film, one has a sense that nobody making the film saw the completed film prior to release, they only saw the rushes. Otherwise, how else could they have missed how spotty and incomplete this feels? Bits and pieces work, here and there - but they never add up to a whole movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best I've ever seen!","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The acting was superb by all actors! Hope Davis plays a terrific part in her role of self-centered mother. I was struck by the gentleness of Anthony Hopkins with Bobby, Carol and mostly all children. The abilities that he possessed seem to go hand-in-hand with knowing and realizing the beauty and purity of children. What made me love this film most out of so many things, was the wisdom possessed by Brautigan, even more than his gifts! Bobby's devotion to Carol made me realize right then what kind of a man he would become in later years. The longing to have known his father hit me in the gut as I didn't know mine either. This movie had me in its grips from the first second until the very end and I have thought about it very often. I watch it every time it comes on TV! "},{"Title":"Childhood magic at its best","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This one made me cry when I watched it in the cinema. I do not know why, as the story is fairly simple and well-handled. The acting is simply great. Anton and Anthony interact wonderfully. The looking back is maybe what broke my heart. It's right. When you're a kid, a day can seem endless. Now, as I've reached the age of 21, I wonder where my childhood has gone. Nothing stays the same, nothing, and that's what makes me feel blue due to nostalgia sometimes. Besides, the soundtrack is brilliant and the setting is perfectly put up. The message is moving and the ending just heart-rending. One of the better Stephen King adaptations, though the actual original artwork by him is much different. The overall message shines through though, and that's the most important aspect. "},{"Title":"Really nice and feelful","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ===ENGLISCH===This is a film how it has to be. I love those titles which make you crying at the TV, in situations - you do not want to realize. Hearts of Atlantis is such a film, much feelings, a big friendship, but - and this is one of the most dramatic reasons - a life environment which caught your compassion on Bobby, the sympathetic young boy, but also on Ted, Carol and Bobby's Mum.A Must Have Seen Film!Nice Greetings sEbbeL(PS At all User which read the book, look the movie without thinking at the book - this film is only BASED on a book..But its story is a grateful one!) "},{"Title":"Best film I have seen in ages","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The basic story is that a boy who lives with her mother (probably in the 50's), have a mysterious man move in above them. The boy instantly becomes good friends with this strange, but interesting man (Anthony Hopkins). Over time the young boy becomes aware that this man is psychic. The low men (A.K.A. the government) are after him for his ability. This may sound like an action film, or just like many of the other terrible Stephen King films, but this film is without question a masterpiece. It has a very subtle, but extremely strong emotional feel to it. I would not be able to sum this up in words, as words are not powerful enough to express this. To find out what I mean you will need to watch it yoursefl ;). iF you are looking for a horror film, you are looking in the wrong place. "},{"Title":"Huge!","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In situ film - chamber theater.Small but brilliant cast.  Great synergy!  The story is simple, intricate and mysterious, and is carried away by the fine screen direction and atmosphere.So there is wisdom in prodigy, comfort and confidence in dedicated parenting.  But when these social conditions all collide in a compact, eloquent, and poetic movie - hmmm, out comes something like this!A totally relaxing and uplifting cinema experience.  You don't have to do any mental work to take in the miasma and the charm of this movie.  The story and the portrayal make the whole thing timeless and enchanting. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and moving","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King really knows how to reawaken the lost deep emotional feelings of late childhood.  An age when everything seems hopeful and terrifying at the same time. The movie has a strange and mysterious connection between characters who have the ability to perceive the invisible and who operate in a world that contains much evil and misery amongst an indifferent field that also has infinitely beautiful flowers here and there.It hits a lot of proven emotional triggers and a few new twists of mysterious omniscience without omnipotence.My only complaint was that the movie was to short.  I wanted more. If it were longer, however, it's emotional ploys may have started to seem manipulative and change from pathos to bathos. Additionally, if it were longer, the mystery may have become too confusing.  All in all a very nice cocktail. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Work of a Film","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"      Now this dosen't live up to the book that much,but it dose live up to something.That something is itself.And it is full of so much beauty.    This film is about a boy named Bobby and his mother.And today is not only summer,but also Bobby's birthday and when Bobby's world is about to be turned upside down and inside out.Because when a fellow named Ted moves upstaires with special powers,he and Bobby become great friends,but that friendship is about to end because the LOWMEN are looking for Ted and it's up to Bobby to protect him.    This is one of the greatest films ever made in my book.Stephen King knows how to scare us and make us cry.With this he did both,but added something new.How to move us. "},{"Title":"Not worth the time","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film unaware that it was based on a Stephen King story, so I had no bias whatsoever. I would class this film as a paint-dryer (about as enjoyable as sitting and watching paint dry), slow, boring and basically a waste of time. The acting of Anthony Hopkins was unconvincing to say the least, after his first few scenes I wondered if he was trying to portray a menacing person or someone with Alzheimers. I was more impressed by Anton Yelchin and Mika Boorem, the fact that some of their dialogue and actions were somewhat advanced for their supposed ages is nothing to do with their acting ability.**** Spoilers ****The worst part of the film was the rape scene intercut with the attack on Carol, and the curing of Carol by Ted - Firstly, I was convinced Carol was being raped, which was apparently not the case, secondly, I could not see how a blow with a baseball bat could dislocate a shoulder without causing other damage and thirdly, as far as I am aware it is only possibly to correct a dislocated shoulder by a simple manipulation within a very short time as the muscles spasm and lock the joint.**** Spoilers End ****The acting of Anton Yelchin and Mika Boorem push my grade up to a 3, but only just.  "},{"Title":"Too vague","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watching Hearts in Atlantis is a very frustrating experience because, although there are wonderful performances from Hopkins and the two kids, the film is dragged down by the vagueness of the story - it just winds up being extremely unsatisfying.  William Goldman is a great writer, it's a shame he couldn't make this work. "}{"Title":"Very good!!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  The acting was great especially those of the three little kids.  The movie is based in the summer of the 60's and is about a little boy's friendship with a unique and specially gifted older man, Hopkins.  The little boy only lives with his single and struggling mother, who ignores her son pretty much and only thinks about herself and buying herself new dresses.  The little boy has fun playing with his friends and gets to experience his first kiss and   the dream of the newest and improved bicycle that he can't get.  The movie is really good and as it goes on you see what happens between the friendship of the boy and the older man and of the boy's mother, who after getting raped by her boss, she begins to fell differently about herself and her son.  Great movie!! "},{"Title":"Subtlely great","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins and David Morse (in a small role) are great in this movie, along with excellent support from the actors playing the children. Excellent direction from Hicks (the DVD features a very soothing commentary by him), and stunning cinematography - this really is a BEAUTIFUL film to watch, one that gently carresses your eyes. The ending is vastly different from the book, more bittersweet. A good, subtle movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie for all ages","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this was a great movie for people of all ages, i loved it!!!if you havent seen it yet i hope you see it soon and comment on it like i am now. its a great movie honestly and everyone i know that has seen it has loved it, so see it!!!! "},{"Title":"Solid Performance From Hopkins; Nice Coming Of Age Story","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins puts on his usual fine (albeit somewhat low-key in this movie) performance as Ted Brautigan in this story of a man with strange psychic-like powers who, on moving into a new town, befriends an unhappy young boy (Anton Yelchin) who is trying to deal with a somewhat neglectful mother (Hope Davis).The story is interesting. Brautigan comes across at first as perhaps a little bit paranoid, but as the movie progresses you become more and more intrigued to know just exactly who this guy is and where he came from. The movie never really satisfactorily answers that question, but I guess that's part of the point it's a mystery that Bobby has had to deal with all his life, too. The relationship between Bobby (Yelchin) and his mom is also intriguing. She seems to have lots of money for fancy new clothes, but never any money to get him the one thing he wants - a new bike. So, there are all sorts of questions about where the money is coming from. Bobby's line to his mother (It's always about YOU!) comes across as the sort of thing any kid might say when he doesn't get his way, but here it has a ring of truth. I also enjoyed the evolution of the relationship between Bobby and Carol (Mika Boorem) - his young girlfriend, and I thought this young actress did a fine job with this role.It's a kind of coming of age movie from the kids perspective that made me think (although there is little in common between the stories of the movies) of the film Stand By Me. In fact, like that movie Hearts In Atlantis is even set as a flashback movie, with an older Bobby reminiscing about his childhood. (And, as I think about it, both are based on Stephen King books.)All in all it's an enjoyable film to watch. Nothing spectacular, but pleasant. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Aching nostalgia and powerful coming-of-age...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first ten minutes almost turned me off, and then I was hooked, but Iam always hooked on Anthony Hopkins' acting and good coming-of-age andnostalgia stories.  What kept me at a distance for awhile was spooky andother-worldly stuff, surreal reference to dark forces, here called TheLow Men.  As the Hopkins character tells it to the boy, letting him intohis confidence and becoming his mentor, in the absence of the boy's realfather, who died when he was five, the boy is incredulous and indulgentand tells him, I won't let the bogey-men get you.But the Low Men seem a real threat after a while, symbolizing evilforces in the world and we all know that evil forces do exist, and theyaren't all known.  Little by little we are caught in the mysteriousreality of it all, in the shadows and sunsine of simple, everyday lifein the 60's, complete with old cars, sports stories, a symbolic baseballglove, a neighborhood bully, and a pretty mom who is not much of amother.The boy clearly needs a father-figure and is hooked by Ted who advisesthe boy how best to use his adult library card.  His knowledge andjudgment are impeccable and he is clearly a good sort, a positiveinfluence, but the mom is the lying sort, devious, running down of theimage of the father, and suspicious of Ted, the new boarder.Ted helps the boy earn money for his dream bike, a Schwinn Phantom,black with red design, shock absorbers and white sidewalls.  The boy isto read to him and keep him company for a dollar a week.  He helps theboy regain a more positive image of his dead father, which helps hisself-esteem by a more positive identification with a good male figure.The childhood is captured in blissful detail at age 11, with two specialfriends, the boy who promised him the glove in his will, and the girlwhose kiss would be the standard by which all others would be measured.Some say the ending is too vague, but they just don't get it.  The endis special and powerful, showing the power of nostalgia and the gift tot "},{"Title":"The Wise Old Man archetype reified","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the really remarkable qualities about Stephen King, who wrote the screenplay for Hearts in Atlantis, is his intuitive understanding of what Jung called the `archetypes.'  Hearts in Atlantis is about one archetype in particular, which appears everywhere in fairytales, dreams, and even in the Hebrew scriptures  that is, the old man, sometimes also called the wise old man.  The old man is usually a prophet of sorts, a wise counselor like Mentor, who clarifies the immediate difficulties of a given situation, identifies the resources at one's disposal, and sometimes gives gifts from his storehouse of benefactions &#150; usually a new character trait or possibly a talisman.  The old man comes to those in dire straits, like widows, orphans, and outcasts.  And so Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), the old man with insight, intuition, and a bit of magic, suddenly appears to a widow and an orphan, both in dire straits.  (Young Bobby Garfield isn't literally an orphan;  but, he might as well be, since his mother is so self-absorbed.)  Mr. Braughton comes to the unlikely pair seeking shelter and anonymity.  He seeks refuge from the FBI in general, and J. Edgar Hoover in particular, who was fond of cross-dressing, while ruthlessly bullying and blackmailing politicians and government officials with their sexual secrets.  (Various pieces of the film suggest this.)  One is reminded of Elijah's sojourn with the widow of Zaphorah, when he was fleeing from Ahab and Jezebel.  This is a very tenderhearted and sensitive movie, showing us a different side of Stephen King, who tells us just enough to let us also try to intuit our way through the action for ourselves.  So he shows us the way to the wise old man through our hearts, not our heads.  It is not a gripping film;  but, it's definitely above average.    "},{"Title":"A Stephen King story wonderfully understated.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This certainly isn't Shawshank Redemption.  It doesn't require that degree of suspension of disbelief.  In other words, it isn't as far-fetched.  The idea that someone had clairvoyant capabilities isn't nearly as absurd as the one that someone could smash a hole in a steel pipe with a rock -- AND time his blows to match the thunder!!  That would have to be the most absurd idea I've ever seen in a movie -- including the Bollywood ones.  Yet people rave about it.I thought this movie was as good as I thought SR was ridiculous.  A gripping story, good acting, great cinematography, and interesting characters with the violence that is a necessary part of the story being depicted in minimal but effective detail.  A movie always has to leave out lots that was in the book -- and Steven King usually puts in a lot of detail that isn't necessary to the story.  I would suspect that most of those who rubbish this movie want to be spoon-fed the details.  Someone who complained on this site didn't even get the detail that Bobby's dad was dead.  If that detail doesn't register with the viewer, it's not the fault of the movie maker.  I haven't read the book, and I found quite sufficient detail for a good screen drama.  Who knows?  I might just read that book too.Only the two main characters are developed to any extent.  We find out only a bit about Ted, and that's what he thought appropriate for Bobby to know.  Bobby's telling this story and he sees the world in a degree of detail similar to that of my 11 year old nephew's view.  The bit we know and the tantalizing wonderings about what else there is to know about Ted is entirely appropriate for a story such as this.  The way Ted waves to Bobby out the back of the car tells as much as a chapter in a Stephen King book.  Anthony Hopkins is always great.Bobby's mother is fairly one-dimensional, but the point is, that's how Bobby sees her until he forgives her near the end.  Some might have thought that just how things changed between them could have been developed more.  The point is the fact that he didn't write to Carol as he'd promised he would tells us that something substantial happened.  Nothing more is necessary.I'll certainly look out for more of Scott Hicks.  "},{"Title":"Moving Fairy Tale","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  nice and beautiful, catching and moving, like a good movie should be; fans of happy-ends may be disappointed, but the story itself is some kind of happy end "},{"Title":"Heart in the right place!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very impressed by this movie. It has the heart in the right place. Stand by Me meets The Green Mile, very magical and gripping. Some of you probably think it's a bit slow, but I thought it was just right. Pretty good. - and after all it is Anthony Hopkins and no one else! "},{"Title":"What went wrong here.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  People finds this movie great. I find it completely boring. So boring, that would say  boring, boring, boring.The only thing that i find touching, is the fact that we adults always forget about childhood friendship and old girl-/boy- friends, and we first realize it, when they are gone and it is to late to visit/talk to/write to them. This movie tell that in a perfect way, and shows what a pain it actually can be.On the other hand, if they had the possibility to meet (Bobby and Carol), then this movie had a risk of being a deep Zero. Yet again one could wish a better life for Carol and Bobby -).Sorry but that's the way i feel.Klavs. "}{"Title":"Fascinating and touching","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  By the end of this movie, I was in tears.  This is a real tearjerker, yet not in a manipulative sense.  Now, I haven't read Stephen King's novel, so excuse me if I'm not as biased.  But I did watch the interview between Scott Hicks and Anthony Hopkins on the DVD edition, and Hicks mentioned that he was aware he ommitted the subplot about Hopkins' character being from outer space, because he felt the relationship between Ted (Hopkins) and the boy was so strong that he wanted to base the story mainly on that.Anthony Hopkins is one of my favorite actors, and he blesses us with another brilliant, memorable performance.  And the young boy, Anton Yelchin, is also very impressive.  For him to able to pull off such a powerful performance at that age, he definitely deserves at least an Oscar nod.  And the girl who plays Carol is also great.  Hope Davis is really good as the selfish mother who can put together enough money to buy fancy dresses, but supposedly can't shell out enough cash to support her own son.  The relationship between Ted and the boy put a big smile on my face.  This is a character study, a coming-of-age film and a human drama all in one. Hearts in Atlantis is a very touching film that exemplifies the power of friendship.  The boy in the story had no father to turn to, so Ted was like his father figure and his best friend.  And I, like him, didn't want Ted to be taken away.  You really feel for these two characters.  And when you watch him many years later, as played by David Morse, reminiscing on those moments you just want to cry.  This movie has its heart in the right place.  If you want to watch a film that will stay in your memory and leave you with a sad but refreshing feeling, then look no further.  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Forget the occult- see it for its gentle story and fine performances","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whatever the characteristics of the Stephen King story on which it is based, this movie emerges as an unusual, sensitive, character-driven tale about young Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin) graduating from childhood innocence and ignorance to adolescent culpability and awareness, in 1960s smalltown America, under the tutelage of mystery-man and father-figure Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins). Though, superficially, some of the occult aspects of the original have been retained, the film sits firmly in the realm of realism - Brautigan's extra-sensory powers can be explained by his having exceptional faculties of intuition and character-judgement, implicit in the quiet authority that Hopkins brings to the role.One of the film's quirkier aspects is that it initially teases us about  its focus. Its starting point is when middle-aged Bobby (David Morse) learns about the death of a childhood friend Sully (Will Rothhaar); but this particular friendship figures little, and far more attention is paid to Bobby's calf-love for Carol (Mika Boorem). A little more on the relationship of Bobby and Sully would have been welcome; though the latter does figure in a poignant short sequence, when he is leaving for a holiday with his parents, which embodies what is missing from Bobby's dysfunctional relationship with his harrassed and erratic mother (Hope Davis). One of the dangers of films dealing with teenage rites of passage set in previous times, is that they can be overly nostalgic, confusing subjective fond memories of childhood with objective assessments of the particular era. I don't think this happens here - the paranoid cold-war atmosphere and various social downsides shown in the movie act as an antidote to middle-aged Bobby's natural regret for the loss of his friends and of his own youth.  "},{"Title":"Kinder, gentler Silence of the Lambs","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There aren't many movies where weird broke old guys who smoke too much can relate to the main character, so for us, this is a gem. And if you happen to have a crazy mom &#150; double bonus.  Of course, Anthony Hopkins did the same thing for us in Silence of the Lambs but hmmm&#133;a little TOO weird.  The Stephen King novel survives William Goldman's screenplay sentimentalisms in just the right way too.  William Goldman is a weird old guy, but not broke and I don't know if he smokes.  Great movie, and no references to fava beans or Chianti.Much Love,Doug "},{"Title":"If you loved the Green Mile, you will love this film","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here we are once again pondering another adaptation of Stephen King's novel to film.  Will it work?Our story starts off in the present day as a grown man named Bobby Garfield learns about the death of a friend.  Arriving at the funeral he asks someone about another friend that all 3 use to do everything with.  Unfortunatly he finds out she had some time ago died as well, and in grief Bobby returns to his old neighbourhood where he grew up to reminisce.  From this point on, the story flashes back to the early 60's where Bobby recalls an old man named Ted Brautigan staying upstairs in his moms house.We soon learn about Bobby's past childhood.  His mom never had time for him, his father died when he was five, and his mother dispised her husband saying he was a gambler and owed her money.  But it seems perhaps his mother's judgments are clouded, since during Bobby's 11th birthday instead of getting the bike he desperatly wants, his mom gets him an adult library card.  She remarks 'We can't afford things like that on my salary' while she continues to spend lavishly on clothes and garments.  It's as if Bobby knows something isn't being told but he doesn't want to know the truth.  After all the library card was free...With the arrival of Ted on the scene Bobby now has a father figure, and the movie shifts toward their relationship.  Nobody knows of Ted's background.  All he asks is that Bobby read him the paper for a dollar a week, and to tell him to keep out for the low-men.  Is he a kook?  Bobby asks what do they look like, and Ted only replies that they drive big cars, and cast long shadows.  Is Ted a criminal? A child predator? Bobby asks if they're FBI or cops and why they would want Ted?  Which Ted only replies, They have something I want.Therein lies the sense of horror uneasy-ness set out like in a King adaptation, but set in a backdrop of childhood nostalgia.  What is it about Ted?  We get a slight glimpse early on when Ted mentions fleetingly (perhaps by accident) to Bobby not to worry about the bike he wants so badly even though Bobby has never mentioned it.  Bobby replies how did you know I wanted a bike? to which only Ted can reply, All boys want bikes.However it soon turns out that their chance meeting is no coincidence, and it is this setup played out as we wonder who Ted is, who are the low-men, what is it that Ted has and what will happen.  The story takes some time to get started along.  The period is captured perfectly, and has great cinematography (alot of it was shot in Virginia Beach and in Virginia) but it takes us the audience a little while to get into the film at its 2+ hour length.  Still, it manages to keep you occupied.  The location shots of the neighborhood house in the 60's fall season past contrasted with the winter delapidated present only prove how brilliant the cinematography really is.Nevertheless, the film takes off at the halfway mark when we soon learn more about who Ted is, and his effect on young Bobby.  After all Ted remarks to Bobby how his friend Carol will be the first girl he will kiss, and while we see young Bobby disgusted by this thought, we can then understand why in the present he is grieving so much.  In life we probably have met older people like Ted, and lost people like Carol. We will never be the same after they are gone and you wish, like Bobby, that your childhood could be around forever.  This is the essence of the 'Heart of Atlantis' and it works wonderfully.  The film has that total 'Green Mile' feel to it, and while slow at the start has an ingenious story and emotional payoff that you don't see coming that hits you with a hammer to the heart, and a smile from ear to ear.  If you loved the Green Mile, you will love this film.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"She had the heart of a lion","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Whether you read the book or not most should like this film. I personally didn't read the book and I still enjoyed this film. I'm not usually a huge fan of these sorts of dramas but this was something worth watching.This film is about a 11 year old boy named Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin) whose living with his widowed mother (Hope Davis) in Connecticut. He's very close with his best friends John Sully Sullivan and Carol Gerber (Mika Boorem) who is somewhat of a love interest to Bobby.Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) is a man with psychic ability who has traveled around getting away from people known as the Low-Men. Ted moves in upstairs from the Garfield family. Suddenly a close friendship is formed between Bobby & Ted.This movie tells the story of Bobby who at times has difficulty with his mother and her lack of attention toward him. Ted plays the role of a father figure that Bobby does not have and they develop a bond that will last forever.The relationship of Bobby & Carol is very solid especially for children. You'll know what I mean when you watch the film. As they share their first kiss together.Anthony Hopkins is brilliant as always in this film. The real film stealer is young Anton Yelchin, his performance was worthy of Oscar consideration. His performance was very awe inspiring for his age. Hope Davis plays the role of Bobby's mother very well. You really feel sorry for her in the situation that her and Bobby are in. A very underrated performance done by Mika Boorem, she's very talented and she showed her acting skills, especially in a scene after her character is unfortunately injured. After which Carol is said to have the heart of a lion.If your a fan of Stephen King this should not disappoint. If your a fan of a very well made drama you should love this movie. This movie can also bring you to tears in certain parts especially the last portions of the film.I whole heartedly recommend this film to anyone even if your not fans of dramas. You should enjoy it, I certainly did. "},{"Title":"An excellent, frustrating film","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Okay, first off--I have not read the book. Judging from the posts of those who have, I tend to agree with the sentiment that, even if it is readable as written, it's certainly not filmable as written.That said, this is a great film in spite of its flaws. Beware, SPOILERS AHEAD.Hopkins gives an excellent performance as Ted Braughtigan (his usual standard). And the two principal child actors Yelchin (young Bobby) and Boorem (Sarah) give good performances and work well on screen together. Interesting sidenote--they had costarred in Along Came a Spider before this film (and I think they shared one scene). Anyway, these performances are among the best points of the film. Morse does a good job giving the retrospective perspective as the mature Bobby. The family version of this coming of age story worked well. The implication that the Low Men were spooks using psychics for in the Cold War was carried off well, even if it was a substitution to simplify the story for mainstream consumption. Only two things really bothered me about the film.1. Hope Davis' performance. I ASSUME that in spite of the mother's egocentrism, she is supposed to be a somewhat sympathetic character, a young widow trying to provide for her son and herself and--maybe--find love along with the respect of being a real estate agent. None of this came through. She was the vacuum that was selfish and unbending--two scenes were certainly NOT enough to rehabilitate her character after the entire film. I felt guilty about not feeling sympathy for her after she was brutalized in that hotel room, but I just couldn't bring myself to feel any sympathy for her. That was the film's enduring problem. On a side note, she seems to have a knack for making generally likable characters thoroughly unsympathetic on film (About Schmidt is another example).2. The ending. The words of its message seem to be undermined by the entire journey we've taken and the snapshot that we've gotten of Bobby's life as a patriarch. This whole thing was a coming-of-age film and the message they appear to be working for is that Bobby has moved on with his life and he's happy with it. He wouldn't have missed a minute of it, not for the world. He's given the photograph to Sarah's daughter, someone who needs her more than he himself does. But he begins the film alone in spite of his family, deconstructing his childhood dreams through his gift for photography (a loss of faith). He returns, hoping to meet Sarah at Sully's funeral only to learn that she is also dead. This hits him a lot harder than Sully's death. Again, he keeps that four-decade-old picture in a prominent place in his studio and takes it with him to reminisce. He hasn't moved on. When I first saw the film, that was my impression. On viewing it a few years later, I can better understand and buy the message that they were trying to convey but it's still tough to swallow completely.Now, one more thing. One of the people who has read the book has discussed dissatisfaction with the portrayal of Bobby's attack on the bully. Apparently, in the book it was an ambush and here, this person saw it as a combination of desperation and luck. It isn't like that. He faces his fear. He counterattacks against the bully and then uses the guy's own bat against him. To me that shows more bravery than designed payback by ambush. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie Masquerading as a Good One","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have never really liked Stephen King's books but found some of the movie adaptations to be enjoyable, especially Misery and The Shawshank Redemption.  Both of those were pretty short books (Shawshank being a short story).  It's when his book tops 400 pages (which is usually always) that things go bad.  But since I did not read the book, I will say no more about it.This movie is plain dreadful.  It tries to pull on the ole' heart strings with absolutely nothing.  The kid does not act like an 11-year old (which is typical of King's stuff) and the dialogue is unreal.  I rolled my eyes at least 5 times in this movie and almost turned it off about 3 times.  I kept thinking it would get better, but it kept getting worse. Hopkins is totally wasted in a role that could have been quite good, like his portrayal of C.S. Lewis in Shadowlands.There is no suspense in the movie and it is really about nothing.  Though the main child actor keeps talking about his frienship with his male friend, there is rarely a scene where they talk.  It's just so predictable and Kingish that I can't figure out why people like it.  Oh well.  Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Loved it.  One of my top films.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film.  I saw it opening weekend last September, and ever since then I couldn't wait for it to come out on video.  Now that it has, I watch it over and over again.  There are many things I like about this film1. Sir Anthony Hopkins is brilliant in this film.  I think he's one of the best actors out there today, and he gave this film the best he had to offer.2. Stephen King wrote the book version.  As always, the book version is better, but the film is not that far off.  The book had five stories, whereas the film tends to stick to one story.  Books are drawn out, movies are squashed.3. The kids in this movie did an excellent job, especially the girl who played Carol.  I thought she did a wonderful job.  Anton, who played Bobby, should learn more about acting, I think.Overall, I give it a 9 out of 10.  I recommend it to all King fans, Hopkins fans, and people who like movies set in the 50s. "},{"Title":"A feel good type of movie if...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you never read the book, you might enjoy the movie. But for those who have read the book, just go and see it with a VERY open mind. Anthony Hopkins, as usual, gives a great performance. And the three child actors, Anton Yelchin, Mika Boorem and Will Rothhaar are just as good. "},{"Title":"dull and depressing","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My wife and I didn't walk out on this movie only because we didn't have enough sense to lean over and say, you want to leave?  We were both sitting there, side by side, hating it.  This is an utterly worthless film.  Not much happens, and at the end one can see no point whatever to it.  What is this movie trying to tell us, what does it want us to feel, in what way are the events show really connected?  It is an utter, complete mess, and the fact that it's gotten a fairly high vote on the IMDB just confuses the hell out of me, because it's really, really bad.  The only thing I can think is that the book made sense and people who have read the book have a way of understanding what the point of it all is, but really, don't go see this.  Just don't. "}{"Title":"Slow paced and quite dull; mistakenly keeps the mystery aspect to the rear and the bog-standard coming-of-age stuff to the fore","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Called back to his small town home for the funeral of a childhood friend, Bobby Garfield visits his old house. Looking a lot different than it once did, Bobby recalls a time when he turned 11 and a man moved into the top floor of their house. The man was Ted Brautigan and he befriended Ted, paying him a dollar a week to read him the papers and keep an eye out for the low men that he says are after him. Bobby doesn't take him seriously of course, but takes the money all the same; however after seeing and experiencing some strange things, Bobby begins to believe.Despite the negative press on this film, parts of it are actually quite good. For too long the film is a fairly typical coming-of-age film with a slightly mysterious air in the background. It also moves very slowly. So far, so dull; the mystery is too thin to engage and the story is too dull to care about. However in the final third of the film, the mystery comes to the fore and, although it isn't great, it certainly provides some much needed movement to the story. It doesn't make a great deal of sense and it is a case of perhaps a bit too little much too late, but it did improve as the focus changed.The cast are all pretty good but don't seem to be connected to the material well enough. Hopkins is a good presence but he plays it in whisper mode from start to finish. Yelchin is not too bad but is still a cocky kid performance and he can't do anything with the coming-of-age/first-kiss stuff that he is expected to carry on his own. Davis is actually quite good and I would have liked to see her character dwelt on a bit longer to reward her. Morse is underused as always but he does his best with a bookend role and a bit of narration.Overall this is an OK film that gets better as it goes on. The slow paced typical youth stuff drag it down somewhat for the majority but the mystery side of it keeps it ticking over. By playing more to this side it could have been more interesting but it seems to want to keep it in the background and it does so to its detriment. "},{"Title":"Why wasn't this film controversial?","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A traditional reason for a film to use symbolism and metaphor is because it is dealing with a subject that is too controversial to refer to in a plain manner.This film is carefully set up with the following situation 1. We see only a negative view of adult sexuality. 2. Youthful interest in the subject is romanticized and idealized. 3. An aging single man spends his time overseeing the life of a boy during a key developmental stage, and the guy is keenly interested in how the boy handles his problems,including romantic ones. 4. In the process, a metaphorical secret is shared between both of them, and the end of the film is set up to imply that this mystical quality will get passed on to the next generation. (A misguided stereotype here, but one that many persons actually believe...)5. Although the film includes scenes in which the mother questions the propriety of this arrangement, her doing so is cast purely in negative terms. Superficially, this viewpoint is supposed to rule out the theme that is otherwise obvious on its surface, and the handling of the film's details is actually quite consistent with her initial suspicions. Her initial reference therefore serves a useful literary function in that it defines one of the main metaphorical themes of the film. Since the film has the mother sexually assaulted, it is suggested to viewers that the mother's traditional sexuality is not at all a good thing, and her judgement is untrustworthy (and that it's okay for some alternative form of love to be sought).The script's handling is very interesting, because if this film is not dealing in metaphor than it is overloaded with contrivances, including things that make no sense whatsoever, such as the lost pet flyers. The flyer is portrayed late in the film as if the mother had called the number on it to report Anthony Hopkins' character. This strongly suggests it's true nature, as a kind of wanted poster, or missing child poster. The mind reading has evidence as a mere ploy by a guy who collects and then uses information to gain trust and set things up just right. For example, it appears that the entire scene in the bar could have been set up by him so that the boy is given a different story about his father (and a photo), thus planting distrust and resentment in the boy toward his mother. The grown-up boy at the end echoes this by meeting a teen girl and providing her with a photo and interpretation of her own parent and background. The boy had said flat out that he had come to love Hopkins, toward the end. But because there is also a girl around, audiences are supposed to accept Hopkins' trustworthiness? Did that thin blouse of hers really need to be unbuttoned in order to adjust her shoulder? Was Hopkins' mind reading really just the research he had done along with the reading of people so that everything was just so? For example, he identifies the teen bully's insult patterns as a probable reaction-formation. The strongest hint of actual mind-reading comes in the idea that he could somehow read that the girl needed help. The reason she would be attacked in the first place is never explained; could Hopkins have set up things so that the rescue scenario could play out, just as he had suggested a romantic role for the boy in one of their earliest meetings?Almost everything in the film is therefore consistent with a darker, more ordinary scenario rather than the fantasy. Hopkins' character is a wanted man, because of unnamed crimes that keep him on the go. His power that must be controlled is not a telepathic one, but his urges that probably involve controlled intimacy with young persons. Now it is made clear that this is not portrayed in the stereotypical manner of violence or coercion, but is instead done in a more insidious fashion through the power of gradual suggestion, trust, and friendship. Rather than a swift attack that could be easily interpreted and thus possibly recovered from, the relationship takes on a form in which the boy is seeing things according to the man's vision, and in a way that makes the boy willing to defend him. It's a very classic circumstance well-known to actual police investigators. The fact that there may be some actual friendship, and even love, does not un-do the fact that the relationship most probably went beyond that which is legally permissible, or appropriate for our contemporary culture (which is not ancient Greece, after all).Since this is a carefully written script, and not a traditional genre film, these elements are quite suggestive of a controversial agenda. It's interesting that no one seems to comment on this. Given the large number of persons who like this film, this issue is worth discussing. What indeed is the message of this movie? The answer seems to be evident from the elements listed above! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The book Hearts In Atlantic contains 4 longish, and vaguely related Stephen King stories. The film is adapted from one of those stories Long Men In Yellow Coats (curiously, not Hearts In Atlantis itself), though it drops one of the key elements of the novelette, namely the tie-in with King's Dark Tower epic.Never mind. This adaptation stands on its own very well. It is a tale told retrospectively of one summer in the young life of Bobby Garfield (Anton Yelchin in an early role). This summer had many things to mark it out, but one of these things was the presence of Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins). Brautigan is the main Dark Tower tie-in in the book, so the film has to mcguffinise him in a different way. It doesn't matter it works perfectly well in the context of a stand-alone film.Things happen, mostly low-key and fairly lyrical but, in King's typical way, they tie together and make a greater whole. Yelchin (and Mika Boorem, his young co-star) are both excellent, and Hopkins turns in one of those performances which one might call luminous rather than lurid.Yes, it's a Stephen King genre story, but it is well told and engaging. A small and undiscovered gem. "},{"Title":"A Gentle Visit","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I always put my money on Anthony Hopkins. Once again I am not disappointed. This is a charming story out of the sometimes sentimental mind of Stephen King (yes that Stephen KIng). Like Ray Bradbury, King often pulls things out of a sad and lonely childhood. It makes me wonder what his was like. That said, this is a magical little film about the mysterious man who hits town with some kind of past. Is he a pedophile or a true lover of children. We get to know him. He is never over the top in his attentions. He is careful to present himself in the best way, but keeps so much hidden. As the story unfolds, we get to know about an unhappy boy whose mother feels entitled because of a bad marriage. She routinely rubs the boy's face in the fact that the father left them with nothing while spending what money she has on clothes and little luxuries. She is victimized by the double standards of the fifties herself, trying to be a career woman. But mostly this is about the love and trust that develops between a son who can't remember his father and the mysterious visitor. I was captivated by this film. It's a quite little sleeper. "},{"Title":"What am I thinking right now?","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have not read the novel, nor did I have any idea that this was based upon one, much less that it was a King one, when I decided to watch this. Thus, I can't compare this to it. I suppose this was the big role for Yelchin, before he tried to play Kyle Reese the younger, and I gotta admit, this didn't give me a lot more faith in his abilities. In fact, for how much the kids of this drive this, they could have been somewhat more compelling, and less... annoying. Then again, there are far worse ones out there, and they weren't downright cringe-inducing, apart from the occasional exception. The acting apart from that is great, all of the performances. Plot isn't bad, and it's well-told, developing nicely throughout. The editing has shining moments, and is always good. Same goes for the cinematography. The drama is convincing and engaging. This follows a widowed mother and her 11-year-old son, and what happens when a mysterious stranger moves into their house. The music is cool, most of it being from the 50's. There is violence and disturbing content in this, and I agree that those below the age of 13 should maybe not view it. The DVD holds an informative director's commentary, an interesting half-hour interview between Hicks and Hopkins, a trailer and a still gallery. I recommend this to those who are attracted to the subject matter. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Narrative and Acting","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hearts in Atlantis is a cozy and familiar feeling story with great acting from Anton Yelchin, very well sharing screen time with Anthony Hopkins. Yelchin as Bobby reminded me of a mix of Sean Astin/Fred Savage as child actors, always leading a scene. He did a very good job. The story is anchored by their relationship - like a grandpa and grandson, often talking about sports or life in general. The supporting cast also did a good job too with a requisite bully and girlfriend and a bit of mystery with Hopkins character's past. Hope Davis does OK as Bobby's mother. The clairvoyance/psychic ability was not well explained, and sort of a distraction. Also, the grown up Bobby all of the sudden meeting a girl who coincidentally was the daughter of one of the supporting main characters seemed utterly contrived, but it was a small scene that just needed to be edited out - so forgivable. An enjoyable movie, Hearts in Atlantis is a touching narrative, while not ground-breaking, with competent acting. "},{"Title":"A great book done an injustice","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am not a Stephen King fan. Works of his that I have read over the years can easily be counted on one hand. It just so happens that this is one of those and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I was anxiously awaiting the movie, especially as i felt that Anthony Hopkins would be great for the role.I was mistaken. The book became a disaster as a screenplay, Hopkins came off as a creepy pedophile, and a wonderful story of growing up amid strange circumstances became a movie not worth watching. I just wish they had done a better job. Even the score sucked! I have never been so disappointed in a long-awaited movie. "},{"Title":"..this movie is a gem..","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" As an old geezer, the discovery of Hearts in Atlantis was like finding a treasure-trove. I bought the VHS because it had Anthony Hopkins on the cover of the box. I had never seen him pictured that way always some dramatic countenance (Check Elephnat Man for a very young, handsome Hopkins). I had no idea what the movie was about, having not seen any trailers nor read any reviews nor hearing people talk about it, etc. I think it was on sale; I was new to the VCR-game, a fan of all Hopkins' roles, so I bought it on speculation to add to the few videos I owned. Hopkins was the only actor/actress I was familiar with.....later realizing David Morse (grown-up Bobby Garfield) was the character I liked best in The Green Mile.....I'm not really a horror-supernatural-sci-fi fan, unless there is is a good story inside.The difference of people's opinions on growing-up astounds me. Those who saw (in this film) some of their own experiences in their own lives delighted me. I couldn't believe some thought that period of life is just to get through as soon as possible, becoming very wise at a certain age without having been influenced by growing-up - sad to them ! For those who thought the movie was boring and nonsensical, I pity - maybe they didn't have a good childhood, and I hope they are happier adults.The grown-up Bobby (David Morse) began his nostalgic journey with the arrival of a baseball-glove.....he always wanted it.....but was saddened to read his best buddy had died a hero. His journey brought the realization he had no idea what his future life would become he never wrote to Carol (Mika Booren,brilliant in both roles). He said he had never forgotten Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), but some way the reason he remembered became dim. His dangerous trespassing in his old home brought-back all of the memories that had made him the man he was. His encountering the young girl - didn't everyone know she was Carol? - gave him the happy realization what a great life he'd had in Atlantis (no matter where the name came from).Ted Brautigan became his friend-father and made a very lonesome home-life with his mother (Hope Davis) bearable. Ted also helped him to understand his library card was a wonderful gift; if he worked it right, the bicycle would come later - perhaps by earning it, which would make it the ultimate gift. Mom's suspicion and ambition only drew the two closer. Ted's power of vision was the vehicle for Bobby to learn about his sorely-missed dad. The shuffle-game at the carnival let us see Bobby had some vision, too. We all do - I knew that was going to happen.The giddy swimming with his friends; the kiss on the 'wheel (I'm dying over here!); the idyllic days in the park; the standing-up to Carol's tormentors; reading to Ted; the discovery of Ted's clairvoyance and the joy it brought Bobby; fear of finding the dreaded signs The Low Men were around; Mom's selfishness; the visit to the bar and the astounding discovery people actually knew and liked his dad; the realization Bobby could not scare-off the boogeymen; the shock that Ted had to move-on and the part Bobby played in getting the winnings from his bet on the prizefight; Mom's turning Ted in (don't hurt him!); Ted's sudden capture; the confrontation with Mom; their reconciliation; finally leaving Atlantis and getting the bike; ALL OF THESE bring tears to my eyes, because it's a simple story that is believable. Growing-up? Becoming eighteen-or-twenty-one-years-old isn't that it took me four-score years and some fairly unpleasant incidents to make me realize I'm am finally growing-up. My wonderful childhood, like Bobby's, helped me to be the way I am today.I, too, thought the cinematography was brilliant. Stephen King may have written a much weirder short-story, but William Goldman's script is the REAL story. Scott Hicks did a consummate direction, and the whole movie is delightful.....every time I watch it. I noticed there are very few recent (2006) comments on Hearts in Atlantis. It's there for all to discover and enjoy. Hard to believe those who really liked it only felt it was worth not much more than 8 - it's a definite 15 in my book. "},{"Title":"Hearts In Atlantis","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A drama/mystery about a man named bobby Garfield(David Morse,The Green Mile)who goes to his childhood friends funeral in the neighborhood he grew up in.His memories of himself and his two friends and the mysterious house tenant Ted Brautigan(Anthony Hopkins,Meet Joe Black)come flying back to him.Anthony Hopkins(Ted Brautigan)gives a stunning amazing performance.Anton Yelchin(Young bobby Garfield) and Mika Boorem(Carol Gerber)gave rather annoying inadequate performances.Hearts In Atlantis reached the directing medium but couldn't quite pass it.At times the screenplay was pretty awful but it had its moments.The storyline was interesting especially since it was written by Stephen king you would assume that it would be scary but the element of horror does not appear at all in this movie.The movie covered a great era and the music perfectly fits which was fun.Best actor/actress-Anthony Hopkins hands down!!It had its moments-Jake HydenI gave this movie a 6 out of 106/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful and touching","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I thought this movie was beautiful in it's own way. Maybe not in the way of some movies but it tugged at my heart in all the right places. I was touched by the characters and the acting was wonderful. I am by no means calling this the best movie, though I recommend it highly. Maybe some people feel it could have been better, it fell short of wonderful, faded out but I do not. Hearts in Atlantis is sweet and sad and makes me happy when I see it. Anthony Hopkins was wonderful as always and remains on of my favorites of all time. I first watched this movie with my mum one day when we had to get out of the dark boringness of our house. We raced to the theater to fill up the afternoon and picked this movie to watch. I could not stop talking about it to mum for the rest of our time out. All I have to say. "}{"Title":"A Life Too Ordinary","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  William Goldman (Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid) returns to do Stephen King justice once again, after his acclaimed adaptation of Misery ten years ago. Streamlining two of the novel's stories, Low Men in Yellow Coats and Why We're In Vietnam into a sweet, if a tad too-low-key, reminiscence of childhood innocence lost (and sage-like wisdom achieved supernaturally), Hearts In Atlantis seems so determined to avoid any chance of a schlock label that it floats along prettily, inoffensively, from trailer moment to trailer moment.Successful photographer Robert Garfield (David Morse) returns to his hometown of Harwich, Connecticut to attend the funeral of his childhood friend killed in combat. He flashes back to the summer of 1960, when he was 11 years old (now played by Anton Yelchin) and living with his bitter widowed mother Elizabeth (Hope Davis) hand-to-mouth in a run-down boarding house. A charming stranger, Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), moves in upstairs for what he assures will be only a few weeks, and Elizabeth is immediately suspicious of the elderly man's relationship with her son, and his friends, including Bobby's first love, Carol Gerber (Mika Borem). Under the auspices of hiring Bobby to read him the papers, Ted pays the boy a dollar a week to look out for the low men, who are pursuing him for reasons he won't reveal.  There's a little too much reliance on the convenient use of pop songs to evoke the period (Hicks seems content to follow Reiner's model with Stand By Me), and some of the golden-lit childhood romance strays dangerously close to saccharine My Girl territory, often at the expense of the stronger story of the relationship between Bobby and Ted. The otherworldly aspects of Ted's nature, and pursuit by the Low Men (here, sans yellow coats) are downplayed to the point of non-existence, and in the end, it seems like old Ted is on the lam from irate bookies rather than the trans-dimensional bounty hunters of King's story.In his 1986 essay Why The Children Don't Look Like Their Parents (his intro to the OOP book Stephen King At The Movies), concerning the then-abysmal state of King film adaptations, Harlan Ellison wrote that most of the films look as if they'd been chiseled out of Silly Putty by escapees from the Home For The Terminally Inept. He is writing more of shadow than substance, Ellison said of King, he knows what makes us tremble. He knows about moonlight reflecting off the fangs. It isn't his plots that press against our chest, it is the impact of his allegory. Ellison suggested that filmmakers stop dumbing down the characters and obliterating allegory and subtext at the expense of FX and cheap shocks. In the 15 years since that article, someone must have listened, because the quality of King adaptations have certainly improved, witness the aforementioned Misery, The Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile, Dolores Claiborne, and even the television adaptation of The Stand. It's a pity that with Hearts In Atlantis, the filmmakers went too far the other way. In robbing Low Men of its fantasy elements, one of King's most moving fables has been re-rendered toothless and ordinary. "},{"Title":"Most times hearts don't break, they just bend","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I Absolutely LOVED this movie when I saw it.  It was actually the reason I read the book, which really surprised me.  The movie and the book are really very, very different and cannot be compared.   I hope that everyone can get past the greatness of the book to understand the greatness of the movie. The movie really `touched' me, sorry if I sound corny, but it did, and it made me think.  It had a lot of things the book didn't have, a lot of lines the book implied and ideas the book hadn't fully developed.  However, the same goes for the movie, it was missing a lot of things that the book had, like five of the sections!!  Although I really and truly LOVED the sections of the book, I am almost happy the movie didn't try to do them.  By focusing on one part of the book they were able to linger on the small things and create feelings of caring for the characters that you wouldn't get if you were rushed thought the movie.  I have seen the book and the movie, and I must say, I liked both the same!  Go Hearts, I am impressed, such a great story and movie!  "},{"Title":"A few decent scenes in an otherwise terrible movie","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The biggest problem with HEARTS IN ATLANTIS is the fact that the filmmakers chose to adapt less than a third of Stephen King's superb book.  Not even the most interesting part.  They instead chose the easiest part, going so far as to get rid of any story elements that might make the movie more of a challenge to make.Anton Yelchin, as Bobby, turns in a dreadful performance.  The least they could do is find a kid who could act!  Anthony Hopkins is, as usual, great, and a few scenes between Yelchin and Mika Boorem as Carol are charming to watch.But nearly all the supernatural elements of King's book are ignored, and the movie becomes basically a coming of age melodrama, something which was only one aspect of the book.  I hate to keep complaining that it wasn't as good as the book, but it's a lazy, rushed adaptation of a book that deserved more time and effort.HEARTS IN ATLANTIS would have made a great movie, if the filmmakers had had the courage and ingenuity to figure out how to adapt the whole book.  There's nothing wrong with changing things and leaving certain things out of a screen adaptation of a novel (Kubrick's THE SHINING is one of my favorite movies).  But to carbon copy the easy parts and forget about the challenging parts is simply insulting to the audience's intelligence.  Especially those who read the book.  "},{"Title":"Sad Movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a very sad movie, but a good movie at that.  It has a lot of qualites in it that people should talk about, or at least witness and understand.  Best friends, a neighbor bully, a lonely older man who befriends the children, and later events.  This was a very thought out movie in my opinion. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Gentle,moving and intriguing Stephen King adaptation","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsWith a big name star like Anthony Hopkins headbilling it,and being another Stephen King adaptation,Hearts in Atlantis looked all set to be a big,major pre-summer release.Unfortunately,in the heat of the Attack-Of-The-Clones hype,it got swept under the carpet,and was anything but in the shape of a limited release movie,much like Jim Carrey's The Majestic.However,maybe this is a good thing as smaller films often do turn out to be the best ones.As is the case here.This is a story which manages to be gripping as well as gentle and deeply moving.It's shrouded in equal amounts of mystery and sentiment,the 'mystery' part cleverly conveyed in the story of the 'lowmen' and who or what these people are and what their motives are.Performance wise,Hopkins is reliable as ever,but the real star-of-the-show is Anton Yelchin as Bobby Garfield,who,especially for such a young actor,delivers a brilliant performance.The film is also at an enjoyably compact length,running at just over an hour-and-a-half,very strange really for a Stephen King adaptation.Recommended.**** "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those great movies that make you think. Anthony Hopkins does great job playing a wise and mysterious man who has an extraordinary power. As he teaches Bobby you will learn too and really think about life. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie and thought it was very good, I would recommend it to people. The whole story is great, but the thing with the low men in yellow coats wasn't very realistic, I have read the book, and they were more alive in my imagination, and the time doesn't really reflect the 60's like the book did, and missing all these chapters was very unfaithful to the book, but I guess if they added them it would have been very complicated to the audience, because it kind of is like many stories linked together by the same characters, I would greatly recommend the book though, and for the movie I'd give it an 8.5 ... "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this was a pretty good movie, under the circumstances, it was very good, i never read the book but one of my friends did and he said the movie was good too,. but it was kind of weird, i think you had to read the book to understand the movie "},{"Title":"Excellent human story","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King does it again.  As popular as he is, he is very underrated as far as I am concerned!  Stand by Me, Shawshank Redemption, and now this - a very warm, human dramatic story.  Anthony Hopkins is great as always and all the performances are excellent.  This is an excellent film and one of my recent favorites.   "},{"Title":"Rambling story, wait for it to show on HBO","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I actually saw a pre-release version of this film, maybe some of its weaknesses were corrected prior to its release; however, in general, I found the movie to be a pretentious, rambling bit of film making.BUT, the casting and acting are fabulous! If you can believe it, Anthony Hopkins' performance was outdone by two kids Anton Yelchin as the young Bobby Garfield and Mika Boorem as Carol Gerber. You might just rent this movie to watch two very talented young actors; otherwise, take a pass...6/10 "}{"Title":"Assentation to all","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hicks very wanted to get accolade from all category of audience. Because of it - from book was take off all arduous (for week-end minds)moments, such as yellow coated man, dark tower,  battering by the fungo and etc. But the result is absolutely disappointing. The movie is not bad, is not good. Its very middle and strange. All meaning of the book are gone.Hopkins is very great,  Yelchin and Morse too. But .... "},{"Title":"Suffered from a little too much flatulence","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hate to trash this movie. I really do.  The acting is so good that it almost makes you want to see it again, but the film just collapses under the weight of its own flaws.  Amazingly the writing is really the worst feature of the film.  Despite some really choice quotes, there is just too much stupidity and too little characterization involved.  All of the characters besides Ted and the kid are mere caricatures.  It seems to me that for a movie about childhood, it makes the typical grown up mistake of assuming the worst in everything and everybody.  I really wish that the acting talent here had better things to make then this film.  Sadly that is not the case.  This one is a skipper.   "},{"Title":"An inspiring piece of film making.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   HEARTS IN ATLANTIS is just like all the other books adapted from the Stephen King book series. Inspiring and emotional. King is a truly great author. And up until he did STAND BY ME, we thought he could only do horror. This movie again proves otherwise. Anthony Hopkins is Ted Brautigan, a mysterious stranger who comes to live with young Bobby (Anthon Yelchin) and his mother (Hope Davis). Hopkins is again great in another spectacular performance! Even David Morse is good as the older Bobby who remembers his past from 1960. I like his scenes best of all. They create a mood of saddness. We feel what he is feeling in those scenes. This was a great, great movie! One to watch over and over again. HEARTS IN ATLANTIS 5/5. "},{"Title":"Dark coming of age movie","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A coming of age movie like Stand By Me but with a 60's dark/paranoia undertone.  Anthony Hopkins gives a excellent performance of a person with a mysterious background and much insight.  The movie could have gone more into the circumstance in which the family is in now.  Maybe it was a tradeoff between making the movie longer, which might have taxed some of the audience's attention span since the movie had a relaxed pace.7/10  "},{"Title":"Great Drama Marred by Flimsy Supernaturalism","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Probably the most distinct element about Hearts in Atlantis is the way it provokes emotion through atmosphere more than with, what is, a weak narrative pull.   It is doused in a haze of memory and nostalgia, of fear and the unknown.  Director Scott Hicks seems busy in recreating the 1950's era, but the emotional tug that is expected never really hits a high note.Hearts in Atlantis stars Anton Yelchin as Bobby, a young boy living in rural middle America with his neglectful mother (Hope Davis), when an older man named Ted (the inimitable Anthony Hopkins) arrives to live in the suite above their home.  Bobby and Ted soon become friends, and Ted hires him for $1 a week to read the paper to him.  The true purpose for hiring him, Ted reveals, is to inform him of the Low Men, people looking for him because of Ted's strange quality to foresee the future.Stephen King penned the novel, but the movie has more to do with the relationship between Bobby and Ted than the supernatural.  It's actually more in the vein of Stand By Me.  In fact, were it not for the psychic overtones, Hearts in Atlantis could have easily played out as a straight, coming-of-age drama.  Instead, the shift in tone misleads the audience with a schizophrenic mood that switches back and forth between dramatic arcs and hints of otherworldliness, making for, unfortunately a rather dissatisfying payoff.Both Hopkins and Yelchin are in fine form, making up for the uneven lulls in storytelling, with fine performances.  Hopkins excels at the these sort of father-type, knowledgeable roles, and newcomer Yelchin complements him with a believable heartfelt turn as the stalwart, courageous Bobby.  Hope Davis is suitably (yet one-dimensional) icy as his self-absorbed mother), and as Bobby's girlfriend, Boorem more than holds her own.Hearts in Atlantis is not near the caliber of King's other mainstream works that have reached the big screen, such as The Shawshank Redemption or The Green Mile. It is still, however,  a quiet, gentle, and well-acted and shot coming-of-age story.  With the supernatural backstory eschewed and a keener eye for character, this could have been a truly heart-tugging, powerful film, instead of only being strewn here and there with real emotion.7 out of 10       "},{"Title":"The director shouldn't have shot the movie, he should've shot himself!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, Anthony Hopkins was good, even with the thin role he was given, but the rest of the cast was pretty dreadful.  The young actor who played Bobby needs to go back to acting class.  Boy, talk about overacting!  He's supposed to be an 11-year-old kid and he's carrying on like a 40-year-old.  And the story (which was by Stephen King)  I admire screenwriter William Goldman, but he really blew it on this one.  Bad dialogue, a lackluster story I could care less about -- I'm still scratching my head over it.  A BIG thumbs down.   "},{"Title":"yet another Hollywood flick","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Doesn't suck. Nothing memorable here, though. Everything, including scenery, dialogue, plot, and acting is very formulaic.  Music, oh my goodness, it's the same old songs they use in EVERY movie about the 50's. Anthony Hopkins is great as always. As far as everyone else is concerned... Every character is underdeveloped, and a lot of questions remain unanswered. By the time the secret is revealed, it's not important anymore. Yup. just another predictable, unmemorable, Hollywood flick.    "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but very good.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie just 5 minutes ago, it was such a good movie, probably not perfect, but hey, things can always be better. The storyline hasn't changed much from the book. Anthony Hopkins is playing T.Brautigan and it's a very nice role he's playing there, just like the kid Anton Yelchin.  "},{"Title":"Stands Alone Well, But Could Have Been Better","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There may be some spoilers, so just a heads-up.With the amount of movies that have been made from Stephen King novels, this one ranks far above most. Yet, I thought there could have been more of the novel brought out in this particular adaptation.First off, in the book, I think the mother was a little more cruel in the book. Also, Bobby was always ready to sound off on his mother. I would have given anything for Bobby to have yelled at his mother in the movie, especially toward the end. His mother had been lying/ill-informing him of his father and when he finds facts to the contrary, he blows up when she tries to come down on him. That would have at least shown that he was on the last of his childhood.The beating of the bully was great, but the after-affects (or lack thereof) should have been presented. To have the cops show up at the door and telling Bobby's mother that her son had beaten up some kid and then having her cover for him because she realizes that the boy beat Carol would have been awesome. It also would have shown her contempt for men who abuse/take advantage of women, especially after her ordeal at the seminarIn the book, Bobby was already a reader. In fact, while he wanted the bicycle for his birthday, he actually did treasure the adult library card. It also would have segued into Ted opening more of a world of reading for him than he was already accustomed to.I could go into the whole Breakers/Dark Tower subplot that came from the book and wasn't even mentioned here, but unless there are going to be movies from the Dark Tower series, I don't see any reason why they would have gone into it. I just sincerely hope there will never be a movie on the Dark Tower series unless it's going to be huge and long. No movie will ever be able to do the series justice.Otherwise, this is a great little movie. Plenty of heartwarming and tear-jerking scenes. That and some mysterious forces and you've got a movie that should be able to intrigue most people. 7/10 "},{"Title":"First Love","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One element of Hearts in Atlantis that appeals very much to me is the first love angle.  Well, come to think of it, many aspects of love are explored through this beautifully filmed movie.  Someone asked me what's the connection between the psychic powers stuff and Bobby/Carol's puppy love stuff?  I'd like to think it's that Brautigan, who probably has never even considered that he's capable of love or of being loved is living vicariously through Bobby.  It's obvious that he doesn't like physical contact for a number of reasons, but as time passes, he bends to it and is moved by it. He loves and cares for Bobby and Carol ... Bobby loves him.  It's as if all these broken people (fatherless boy, picked-on girl, lonely old man) team together to become whole and in doing so, there is a triumph ... however brief.  I admit, I wish I had been able to learn more about Brautigan's mysterious past and his psychic powers, but you know ... I'm not sure why we always think we have to know everything when it comes to storytelling. What would that extra backstory knowledge of Brautigan have contributed to the actual theme of the story?  Not much, when you think of it.  It would have been baggage, because in my mind, the actual theme of this story was first love, not watch out for the bogey man.  And sure, there are some other undercooked subplots that could have stayed in the oven for an extra minute or two (like Sully's importance to the story), but I can forgive it since it didn't actually distract from the story. "}{"Title":"BORING MOVIE, RIDING ON KINGS NAME!!!!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  people please, this movie had such a thin plot i was left wondering where they left the rest of the film.  not only can they not decide who should be the star of the film, but the plot is paper thin.  supposedly the guys powers were very important but you see him use them only once.  i was very bored the entire move, they dont answer why hes going to be taken away, i mean the big bad government men want his powers or what?  plus how do they find him all the time, i mean come on.  people like stephen king so much that you will go and sit through a boring movie, and then go tell people that you liked it even if it stunk.  well this movie stunk.  bad.  and i am a stephen king fan, i love most of his books and many of the movies but this one is not one of them.  soo it so you can pass on the word that is is a boring dumb movie with a serious plot problem. "},{"Title":"An observance of the original vs. adaptation","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis, an adaptation of 'Low Men in Yellow Coats', by Stephen King.Stephen King vehicles have ranged from the horrid to the magnificent.  Guessing which one will be which is something of a game of mine.  My batting average on guessing has been so-so.  I anticipated this one to be kind of average--King recent adaptations to the silver screen have been having a fairly good run of luck, and it was time for a slight stumble, if not outright collapse.  While I agree Anthony Hopkins is a fine actor, as soon as I heard he was playing Ted Brautigan, I began to have my doubts.  Hopkins has always been a strong presence of the screen, and I always pictured Ted as a smaller, weaker looking man whose aura, not his physical nature, gave him the presence where his body did not. Another strike I had mentally prepared against the movie was the title.  While, admittedly Low Men In Yellow Coats is not a great title for a movie, the story I had associated with the title is completely different.Directors, producers, brave or timid, none of them want to tackle the massive continuity of the Stephen King universe.  Perhaps, one day, some fresh blood will attempt it.  It would make a great HBO or Showtime series, to recreate the Stephen King movies, with the interlinking threads, and the Dark Tower at its core.  Its a process I was expecting to be ignored for this feature, and more than willing to forgive going into this movie.I am rather disappointed in how the Low Men where handled.  Mostly invisible, and a barely perceivable menace.  I think their supernatural element could have been integrated, even without the Dark Tower connection, but done is done, I guess.  Other missing elements that would have improved the feature, was the 'Lord of the Flies' connection, Bobby's descent into crime, and the full brutality of the bullies (and Bobby's final response to it). The character interactions were also slimmed down to the minimum needed to tell the story.  This, at least could have been the cornerstore for an excellent trilogy, or even a full four movies.  But Hearts in Atlantis is a Stephen King novella pared down to its barest bones.  And while it is not as bad as some, it is a far cry from greatness.Perhaps the saving grace of this movie is the actors, who each turn out star performance, squeezing the most of their roles.  A personal favorite was  Alan Tudyk as the Monte Man.  A little younger, and less greasy  than portrayed in the book, but a character brought to rapt attention by a fantastic portrayal.  Truly, none of the actors gave short shrift to their parts, and this prevents Hearts from being a bad, or just mediocre movie. Even the director does well.  I simply perceive him as having been a little bashful of tackling the original text full on.  I watched it, and thought it was two-dollars well spent (I would have been annoyed, I think, if I'd spent more).  As a loyal Stephen King fan, I will probably end up buying it, but I will gladly wait until it hits the bargain bins.  6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Decent little film. Kept me interested.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis is a decent little film. It kept my attention for the 100 minutes that it runs. However, since I have never read the Stephen King novel on which this was based, I would have to say that it is not my favorite film based on Stephen King works.The film reminds me alot of Stand By Me, and also of The Green Mile. Here we see a man remenisce about events that happened many years ago (Green Mile) in a summer back in the 1960's (Stand By Me). A strange man moves in upstairs who has strange powers. The man befriends the little boy who lives downstairs with his widowed mother. Soon, the boy finds out that the man is hiding from the FBI (?). The story is a lot more interesting than I have made it sound. It is worth a look at. However, I can not rate this film very well since I for one can not rate it to the book. After seeing this film, it does make me want to go and read the entire novel, to see exactly what was happening with Anthony Hopkins' character.Stellar performances from the cast make this a good likeable movie. Worth a rental.  "},{"Title":"Too little, too late.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis has all the makings of a first rate film. What could have been just a heart warming slice-of-life flick wanders sloth-like off into the paranormal threatening something ominous and foreboding and then poofs into the expected. The beginning and end with Morse is unnecessary footage and an obvious ploy to heighten feelings of nostalgia in the audience. Etc. Nonetheless, Hearts... is a beautifully shot and well acted film with faults sentimentalists can easily overlook.  Too bad the story doesn't measure up. "},{"Title":"Anthony Hopkins rescues another film","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on a story by Stephen King, the movie takes us to that familiar nostalgic background from past films like Stand by me and It, by the same author. The main difference is that in this movie, there is too much effort trying to display the atmosphere of the sixties in the screen, rather than giving more importance to the characters and the story (in fact, the movie title in Mexico translates as something like Nostalgia for the past). The use of the TV shows and the constant playing of songs from the time during the entire movie become an evident, over used resource, as to make the public catch the ambience by force. The story is average, but with possibilities. The kids overact with criminal, annoying impunity during all of the movie, a fact that contributes a lot to the predictability of the end. As with El Zorro and Mission Impossible 2 Mr. Hopkins' acting is the only solid reason to go see this film. His role as a mature lonely man with strange psychic powers is excellent and makes the story interesting and sound, despite the poor acting of the children. "},{"Title":"A charming, nostalgic account of the last summer of childhood for a young boy in 60's America. 3 And A Half Flys Out of five","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts In Atlantis is a dreamy, nostalgic and charming film about the movement through childhood into adolescence of a young boy named Bobby (Anton Yelchin). There are elements of movies like The Bridges Of Madison County and The Sixth Sense but the story was written by horror writer Stephen King. Hearts isn't designed to frighten though, but it does get a little mysterious.A strange but nice man called Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins) moves in upstairs from Bobby and it seems that he's on the run from the `low men' who just might be FBI agents on the hunt for Brautigan because of Brautigan's psychic powers. Bobby is enlisted by Brautigan to watch for signs of the `low men' and to read daily to Brautigan.Brautigan becomes something of a kindly uncle for Bobby who's Dad is missing. Bobby lives with his Mum Liz (Hope Davis) who's got the sorts of problems lone women with dependent children might have in 1960.Hearts In Atlantis has the carefully conceived look of a work of love from Adelaide director Scott Hicks (Snow Falling Through Cedars, Shine ). It's replete with atmosphere. Childhood is a fraught time, childhood friends can be very precious and Hicks has portrayed this beautifully with the help of Bobby and especially delightful Mika Boorem who plays Carol, Bobby's special friend.Anthony Hopkins somehow misses the mark, except that it's hard to imagine any other actor doing a better job of what is a particularly fuzzy role. Brautigan seemed to be mainly an accessory to Bobby and Carol's journey, and it's likely that Hicks had that role in mind. Hearts is about childhood and is told through a child's eyes. There are some wonderful scenes in Hearts In Atlantis, especially one when Bobby gains some special knowledge of his Dad. Hope Davis as Bobby's Mum portrays beautifully the brittleness and selfishness that can envelop the lonely. Hearts In Atlantis offers nicely contemplative entertainment.3 And A Half Flys out of Five  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming & sentimental but left unsatisfied","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie. However, it was slow going leaving me wondering when the pace was indeed going to pick up.   The films walking pace allowed me time to reflect on my own childhood years.  I have not read Stephen King's book, but I was expecting to see more exciting supernatural events during the movie then was shown.  The movie ending left me a little disappointed, and I would have expected more information on the characters adult years and why they did not maintain contact. "},{"Title":"3/10","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You know, until I saw this film, I thought all the Stephen King serious movies were pretty darn good.  This film however, is the terrible exception.  Apparently all Scott Hicks thought he needed to make this film work was a boy, and Anthony Hopkins on whisper mode.The film bores more then any other film of 2001.  Hopkins gives a shameless performance that any old sheep dog could give, and the boy, well the boy is given far too much screen time and he has far too little talent.  This film is a complete waste of time and effort.David Morse is the only actor who doesn't come off as a tool in the film. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful adaptation","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Scott Hicks' adaptation of Steven King's work Hearts in Atlantis is a thoughtful and moving film. Anthony Hopkins is excellent once again. The two children leads are equally impressive and they hold their own well against Hopkins. This film doesn't cover King's entire book but does a very good job of bringing the best parts of it to the screen. (***1/2 out of ****) "},{"Title":"Excellent acting + good story = Great movie!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When i heard that Anthony Hopkins was starring in a new film i was very excited to see it. I loved almost every movie he stared, and this one wasn't an exception! Anthony Hopkins's acting is extraordinary and the supporting actors do a great job aswell. The characters are well built and connect to the view easily. The plot is well adopted from Stephen King's short story.I give it 10/10, great movie would recommend it to anyone! "}{"Title":"Leaves you hanging","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Poor character development, bad acting, and bad plot development charactierize this movie.  Too many times an important element of the story is introduced and abandoned leaving the viewer to doubt the validity and importance of the developing story.  The story is poorly organized and unpolished.  Enough said. "},{"Title":"Emotion over creativity = ('Stand by Me' for the 21st century)","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on a Stephen King story, 'Hearts in Atlantis' starts off with an adult (David Morse) reading a newspaper story about a friend who has died just like in 1986's 'Stand by Me' when the adult (Richard Dreyfuss) did the same thing.  Both films then let memory go into flashback circa 1960 or so.  There are children playing and conflicting with the bullies in tow and a sweet animated feeling of innocent youth.  There is even one character in 'Hearts of Atlantis' who has a crew cut, white t-shirt and denim jeans like River Phoenix's character in 'Stand by Me'.  Anthony Hopkins plays a mysterious stranger with what appears to be psychic powers that he uses to help those around him.  The problem is that the film is based on a Stephen King story and like a lot of King material, is written knowing that another medium will adopt it and depth goes out the window and is replaced by a mild form of manipulation.  I enjoyed 'Hearts in Atlantis' but Hopkins' performance is a relative cake walk and some of the feelings generated are pretentious.  A noble effort by director Scott Hicks but one that is not meant for repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"A sick perversion of a good book.","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had read the book Hearts In Atlantis, and I loved it! I was so excited to see this movie, and from the very first scene my heart began to sink. By the end of the movie I was in a fairly bad mood. The entire premise of the book was changed. I can understand that some things need to be cut out or shortened for time's sake, but to change entire aspects of the movie is just plain wrong. I thought that the acting wasn't that great, especially Bobby and the lines seemed forced. One of the things that I liked most about the book, at least the first story in the book, was the connection to Stephen King's Dark Tower. The Dark Tower was totally eliminated. The lowmen were just punk government agents. The final palaver that Ted and Bobby have with the lowmen is not even in the movie. I wouldn't suggest that anyone see the movie, but instead to pick up a copy of the book. It's really worth it. "},{"Title":"Dear lord! Were we watching the same movie?","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the worst films I have ever seen in my life! Nothing in this movie flowed or had any relevence to the next occurrence. The whole movie was a jumble of ideas that made me want to question the director's friends and family.  Who ever told this man he could make a movie?  Whoever did should slap themselves and apologize to the public!  This awful piece of rubbish had but one redeeming quality, it was not three hours long!  I cannot begin to discuss the barely tolerable young thesbians and still wonder what the little girl's relavence had to do with the story.  There were so many throw away characters that you would not have changed the story one little bit had they been abducted by aliens from the film.  Don't get me wrong, I love Stephen King and adore his work( both horror and non-horror) but I simply must ask, what happened?  Did creativity run amuck? Were interpretations differing to a severe degree? Whatever happened, I simply must say this, Stephen, stay away from this man. How can you throw away the mystery at the end of the film and never explain one cotton-picking thing about them! I am mystified at this movie, not because its  good(oh no, never that) but because it was so pompous about its art and turned out to be worse than Eraser head Shame on you Castle Rock!! "},{"Title":"This movie does not stand on its own.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off, I've never read the book.  So my comments and statements are based purely on what I got out of the movie by itself.  This movie does not stand alone.  Without the benefit of knowing all the elaborations within the book, this film falls flat. It developed nothing, went nowhere, and solved ziltch.  I could not get involved with any character.  And such, I did not laugh, sigh, or cry as the director envisioned.  I do not feel reading the book should be required to appreciate the film.  The movie should be able to stand alone.  "},{"Title":"They Used The Wrong Title","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are expecting the Stephen King novel, you may be disappointed.  King's 1999 book Hearts of Atlantis features five stories, including the generally praised Low Men in Yellow Coats.  It forms the heart of this movie, which also dips into the fifth story called Heavenly Shades of Night Are Falling. The film tells a tale of 1960, when a man named Ted Brautigan moves into Bobby Garfield's neighborhood in tiny Harwich, Connecticut. Bobby is impressed with the old man, as are his friends Carol Gerber and Sully-John. Bobby's Mom, Liz, has her own ideas about Ted, all of which become darker as the summer of 1960 wears on.  Starring Anthony Hopkins, Anton Yelchin, Hope Davis and David Morse, the movie never develops any kind of momentum or energy to propel it forward - it often seems to be spinning its wheels. But at least the popcorn was freshly popped! "},{"Title":"I hated this movie","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was one of the worst movies that I have seen in a very long time. It may not have been that bad of a movie but I had high expectations. The movie has absolutely not point at all. Maybe I completely missed something but I don't think so. Nothing was accomplished at all in this movie and there was never any conflict to keep the story going. It ended at nothing, what the hell ever happened. Maybe they left way to much out that was in the book but the movie was ridiculous. I should have never saw this movie, it just made me angry after it was over that I sat through the whole thing. I would have rather seen a movie with pointless explosions or something atleast a little more entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Hopkins is worth watching every time.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosh I didn't know anything about the story and when I caught on that it had a touch of the sci-fi mystery involved I got really excited about what was coming.  But it never arrived.There was too much coming-of-age, and not near enough Stephen King to suit me.  They could have added just a bit of fun, maybe like Hopkins telling the kid there will be a company called Microsoft, buy some stock.  I can't say I wouldn't have missed it for the world.  So how was the book?On the up side, I liked the actors and Hopkins is worth watching every time. "},{"Title":"Fine acting, but a bit too slow.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Overall, the main cast turn in fine performances all around, but I felt the film could have used a bit more editing. Perhaps cutting about 10 to 15 minutes would have been about right.Otherwise, not much more than your typical flash-back to growing up story, but with a light touch of the paranormal that serves only as a plot device (not having any real impact on the story itself). "},{"Title":"slick nostalgia","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very impressive performances by Yelchin and Hopkins (and solid work by everyone else) more than make up for the occasional slickness of the Goldman script (he's a pro, but I find that all too often he substitutes his prodigious technique for real feeling). It's a coming of age story about an 11-year-old boy, framed in an instant of retrospection by the grownup version of him at a funeral (recycled from Stand By Me). But King has a real feeling for this sort of thing, Goldman translates that quite effectively, and the stars and director do a wonderful job of putting it up on the screen. It's gentle, bittersweet, and moving. It's not a great movie, but it's a good one. "}{"Title":"Not one of the better King adaptations","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS!I admit that I have become way too judgmental about films I see. But I just can't help notice the small problems that bog down Hearts In Atlantis.   If all that's wrong with Carol is a shoulder dislocation, why does Bobby have to carry her up the hill? It's a heroic, inspired effort but, really, she should be able to walk with help. It needed to be an injury that Brautigan would be able to fix, ruling out a broken leg or ankle.  This entire sequence is plagued with problems, in fact. Like if Miss Garfield suspected that Ted was a pedophile, then why'd she leave Bobby alone with him? And where exactly does this suspicion come from?The little that's shown of Miss Garfield's rape still seems out of place. Juxtaposing that with the attack on Carol just intensified it. The proper tone had not been set yet. Even a drama like this needs to build up intensity in steps. Hicks chooses to cut all the intense moments into one montage-like scene that resultingly feels like it's in the wrong movie.     Hicks and Goldman let the story drift away from its theme just to provide some hoped-for feelgood moments. For instance, near the end, Bobby is able to stand up to Doolan, but why is this important? I could have done without that retribution. The story is about the purity and magic of childhood cultivated and protected by the strange old boarder, Ted. It's a coming-of-age tale. I never really thought Bobby was afraid of the bigger Doolan, just outnumbered. Beating the bully up with a baseball bat resolves nothing for the audience. The mystery of Ted's strange abilities is handled well. The revelation of his psychic abilities and how he passes them to others he touches threw the audience a curve ball at the right point. Many elements of this story are handled well. It's a watchable film. But I shouldn't have to filter it through my mind to figure out what the point of the story really is.Grade C-       "},{"Title":"Falls short of expectation","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie, after seeing the coming attractions, not to mention that I hold Anthony Hopkins in high regard.  However, I feel that the movie turned out to be relatively bad.  Anthony Hopkins did perform well, but the movie had hardly any plot and left *many* questions unanswered.  I would like to have my $8.50 back that I paid to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Stephen King must have had a disturbing childhood","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Has anyone noticed how frequently Stephen King superimposes the innocence of childhood with the horror of adulthood.  Carrie, Stand by Me (the Body) and other stories contrast these two periods of life, creating a bittersweet taste.Hearts in Atlantis is not an exception to this.  It's an unhurried study in the nostalgia of childhood, the joy of childhood friends and the regret of growing up and moving apart.  Intermixed with this is the story surrounding Anthony Hopkins, trying to escape his own demons, fully aware of the innocence he has lost along the way and, in taking an interest in Anton Yelchin's character, seeks to prolong the innocence of his childhood just a little longer.Hope Davis is quite convincing as the widowed mother who is trying to build a life for herself and her son.  She does little to relieve the burdens her son carries, and is too caught up in trying to survive and living inside the unreality she has wrapped herself in. She is so caught up in trying to provide what she thinks her son needs to be able to give him what he really needs.This is not a fast-paced movie.  It's as much about atmosphere as it is about plot.  It seems the filmmakers are trying to stir up in you memories of your own childhood, and the moments where the innocence of youth suddenly were torn away and the reality that the adult world is more troubling and complex than you had thought imposes itself and you grow up.  You can't really go back, but you can bring your memories and emotions with you into adulthood and revisit them as an adult.This is a well-made movie, with just enough plot to keep you interested and only a few periods where you find yourself unengaged in the story and back in the theatre.  I found myself caught up in what was happening for the vast majority of the movie, and found it to be a pleasant experience. "},{"Title":"Snore","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't read the book, but seeing this movie makes me wonder how faithful it is to the original material. I loved The Green Mile (both the book and the movie), so it should be noted that I have nothing against Stephen King's schmaltzy material... it's just that this movie had no center, made no statements, and offered very little payoff. I spent the entire second half anxiously wishing the movie would end. If you haven't any nostalgia for the 50's, baseball or ferris wheels, the movie seems like a pastiche of someone else's fond memories - which is, of course, exactly what it is. No tension, no apprehension, no drama. Pure cheese. Still, you gotta love Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"I guess they needed 3 hours and Steven Spielberg","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of my favorite Stephen King books.  In the book... I loathed his mother, loved Ted, feared the bullies, and imagined the low men as something out of this world.This movie did not stir up any of these emotions in me.Disappointed. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt, moving story of adolescence in 1960's connecticut","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King's Hearts In Atlantis (directed by Scott Hicks) starts out slow, but that's only to crescendo into a well crafted drama about a boy, Bobby (Anton Yelchin) who lives with his widowed mother (Hope Davis).  One day, a person comes to rent out the upstairs room in they're house.  His name is Ted, played with a quiet power by Sir Anthony Hopkins, who befriends the young Bobby (he pays him a dollar a day to read him the paper).  But with these visits, Bobby gets a gift from Ted- a psychic one.  And this gift, he finds, might bring trouble.  Hopkins steals most of the show, but the other performances are also quite good, and it is matched well with some great dramatic moments and scenes made finely.  Though I don't know if it true or not, it is an emotional tale (a good one) that will make some feel good they paid the 8.50, and some not.  Either way, it's also gets good direction, cinematography and score.  A- "},{"Title":"There are good Stephen King adaptations out there.  This is not one of them.","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another unfortunate case of one writer taking another's story, raping the h*ll out of it, and using just the characters and basic events for their own purposes. This movie seems eager to join the league of bland Stephen King adaptations.It's simple, see, all you have to do is; take a Stephen King story, remove all irony and dark humor (in this case, all humor period), along with anything possibly offensive, dangerously crude, or sexual (which is about a fourth of anything King writes), add in a bunch of sappy, trite bullshit that washes away anything real from the characters and grinds them all down to a cliché, and boom, there you go.Add in a boringly typical Anthony Hopkins performance void of any true emotion, just sappy bullshit sentimental faces, a mediocre child actor, and MAKE SURE to use the same flat three point lighting technique and film stock as every other bland Stephen King movie in recent memory.Then you'll get this movie. What a waste.There are good Stephen King adaptations out there. This is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Boring with capital B","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great cure for insomnia. Where to begin... pointless story, terrible script, and the worst performance by a kid actor in a lead role since Nathan Watt in Unstrung Heroes.  One of those films I wish I could sue to get my ticket money and 2 hours back. Very disappointed. "},{"Title":"A real gem...","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having read the book, I just have to say that this movie simply does not follow the pattern of good books with bad movie follow-ups. Quite the contrary, I would go as far as to say that rather than cutting the script down, it simply chooses to tell the same semi-sci-fi story from a slightly different angle.The whole setting is enchanting and takes the viewer crushing back to their childhoods. Hideouts, day-long playtime, strange games, bullies, sport heroes and of course, first kisses. Needless to say that Anthony Hopkins and Anton Yelchin are as real as life itself and that of course the rest of the cast is not left behind... It's interesting to know that that main character of Hearts in Atlantis, Ted, has appeared in some of King's other books including the milestone 7-book series, The Dark Tower. He even had a key part in the whole world behind the acclaimed masterpiece.I believe this to be a must-watch for anyone who loves good, strong dramas, regardless if you've read the book or not, or whether you are a King-maniac like myself. "},{"Title":"Highly emotional movie","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was the best movie I've seen since Jacob's Ladder. Everything is put together, starting with really strong acting and continuing with really beautiful filming of some scenes. This movie is underrated, but I'm not surprised. Not everybody will appreciate this piece of art. As some other guy commented here, this movie goes well alongside American Beauty or the Green Mile. This is what movies should be about... making you feel things, identify with the story/characters, it should be about emotions. A really piece of art movie. I give it 10/10. Couldn't find anything wrong with it. Simply beautiful.Best regards, Calin "}{"Title":"Read the book; skip the film.","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a recently revived fan of Stephen King. As a teen, I loved the Shining, both book and film, and then read 4-5 more books, such as Cujo, Christine, and the Stand.Now in my forties, I've recently finished reading King's Dark Tower series, considered his greatest work by many (including me), and I've found a new interest in reading his writings. I've started reading all the books which are related in some way to the Dark Tower series, of which Hearts in Atlantis is one. Hearts in Atlantis is a collection of novellas strung together by common characters, all of whom appear as the three childhood friends in the first novella on which the movie is based. This movie is based on that first novella, called Low Men in Yellow Coats.I think Stephen King is a master storyteller. His genre (horror, sci-fi) probably puts serious critics off, but King's Constant Readers know what snooty critics cannot- the simple joy of chilling or suspenseful stories set in everyday American lives and settings. Having read the Dark Tower magnum opus (the Gunslinger Series of seven novels) before I read Hearts in Atlantis, I was able to even better appreciate the themes and references the two hold in common. It was like meeting old friends again, and catching up on old times.It must be very difficult creating believable screenplays from Stephen King books (or any books, for that matter), since it is so rarely done well. Books CAN make great films, as Stanley Kubrick (dir., The Shining) fans like me know; but it must be very hard to do.The movie versions of King books have, I've noticed, rarely survived their translation into film. This is a terrible tragedy, especially to those of us who, like King himself, love scary stories and scary movies. The film version of Hearts in Atlantis was very poorly translated, in my opinion. Within the first act, I realized how loosely based on the novella this movie would be, but still held out hope for a hint of King's genius for creating believable characters. Instead, the screenplay and performances by everyone, including Hopkins I am sad to say, were stilted, wooden, and felt like a bad school play.Some critics have noted how family friendly this movie is. King books are not for families, as a general rule. This movie felt like a failed attempt at making a great King story into an ABC after school special. Surely there are better sources of material for family-friendly film fare than Stephen King books! For all things creepy, weird, and believably spooky, though, just go to your local bookstore and pick up any King book.Removing from the Atlantis film all references to the Crimson King, the Breakers, and Ted Brautigan's connections to the Dark Tower epic, lowered the movie to a poor reflection of King's original story. By acting, art direction, and directing that lacked passion and devotion to its roots in Stephen King's devotion to believable characters, this film, in my opinion, went all the way down to the level of frustrating waste of time. "},{"Title":"Heart of Hopkins","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hearts in Atlantis Another great Anthony Hopkins performance in Hearts in Atlantis based upon best selling author Stephen King 's short story Lowmen in Yellow Coats from the book of short stories Hearts in Atlantis.In a wonderfully acted and directed piece Hearts in Atlantis tells the story of Robert Garfield, (David Morse), as he reflects back on his youth.After receiving an old and tattered baseball glove in the mail, with a letter notifying Robert of the passing of a childhood friend, Robert departs to attend his friend's funeral and also to face the ghosts of his youth.At the funeral Robert learns of the passing of his childhood sweetheart, Carol Gerber, (Mika Boorem). This hits Robert unexpected, and particularly heart breaking.Robert then returns to the house of his youth, now abandoned and condemned, where he begins to vividly recall his youth and in particular, his coming of age, when a enigmatic boarder named Ted Brautigan, (Anthony Hopkins) arrives.Bobby's mother is suspicious of Ted, however Bobby is intrigued by Ted's wise and disarming, demeanor. Part of Bobby's interest, in Ted, is his father died when Bobby was younger and, as result has not had a father figure around.Bobby's mother, Elizabeth, (Hope Davis) neglects Bobby's emotional and material needs in order to fulfill her selfish obsessions. This will have tragic consequences for Elizabeth, as she will experience a cruel epiphany of her own design.Though the story centers around Bobby, it's Ted who captivates us as we learn there is more to him then just a mysterious stranger.Anthony Hopkins demonstrates why he's one of the finest actors around when he relates, to Bobby, the tale of the legendary Bronco Nagurski, of the Chicago Bears. Hopkins weaves a hypnotic magical tale that captures young Bobby's imagination, not so much as Hopkins enraptures the audience.I have heard it said that Hopkins could read the phone book and make it sound like a thespian masterpiece. I could not agree more with that sentiment.Bobby's childhood friends of John Sully Sullivan, (Will Rothhaar) and Carol Gerber are rich and deeply connected with Bobby's maturing emotions. Stephen King is the undisputed master, in many aspects of writing, but in my opinion, especially childhood relationships.Ted retains young Bobby's assistance in reading, Ted, the daily newspaper, and alarmingly as a lookout for Lowmen. At first Bobby is concerned that Ted has a shady criminal past, but Ted allays his suspicions with his avuncular manner. Yet Bobby's fear becomes genuine worry for Ted because he does not want to loose this special man who has become his friend, adviser, and guide of insight.Ted's description of the Lowmen hints at something sinister and pervasive that creates real dread for Bobby and Ted.I cannot begin to say enough about how Anthony Hopkins made this a deeply satisfying movie experience. His performance alone would be enough for me to recommend this movie. And yes all the performances were grand and deeply enjoyable. And combined with Hopkins acting, and Kings writing, for a time, my Heart was in Atlantis. "},{"Title":"Oscar Worthy","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was hesitated to watch this movie when a friend of mine asked me not to as he said it wasn't good. I regretted listening to him.One day I was so board, and I found this movie on the top of the TV. As I had nothing to do, I took the film and gave it a try. After the movie ended, I was emotionally moved. I was thinking about the story so much that made me play the film again.The movie was well crafted. I could see Antonie Hopkins in his best performance. The story was one of the best of that year. A spiritual story between a mysterious old man and a kid. I loved the connection between the two characters. Cinematography was great, lighting was well crafted. I loved the mode of the colors. Directing was really great. I would say this is Scott Hicks one of greatest films. It had a profound impacts on me. To me this movie was an Oscar worthy. The story in one word, beautiful.highly recommend to all young and old to watch this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Sorely disappointing","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a great film this could have been. The best thing I can say about it is that it was beautifully shot. But if only they had gotten actors who could act; if only they had paid attention to character development; if only they had followed the plot of the book. With the exception of Anthony Hopkins (who is of course brilliant but terribly wasted), the acting was just wooden. I know finding good child actors is difficult, but they do exist -- surely there are young actors out there who are as good as River Phoenix and Elijah Wood were when they were starting out. But none of them were in this movie, that's for sure. As for character development, there was none. We know no more at the end of the movie about the personalities of the characters than we did at the beginning. The treatment of Sully is especially bad an important character in the book, he's reduced to complete insignificance in the movie. One wonders why they didn't just cut the character out altogether. Finally, the plot. I won't give anything away, but I don't think anyone who hasn't read the book will be able to make any sense out of who Brautigan is and what happens to him. "},{"Title":"Not Worth Your Time","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is unlike any other horror that you normally think when talk about Stephen King, but a slow and heart warming and mess around with your emotion kind of movie. The movie is very slow and is might not suitable for the restless type of person.This movie will actually touches your feeling with the characters in the movie that have been brought out by the good acting and is the location of the place and the flawless storyline. But as I am a restless type of person, I found this to be very average movie that is not very much like the other film of Mr. King. Not a disappointment but surely not that worthy film to be seen and spent your time on. My advice if you want to see it is just wait till it shows on cable.Rating 6/10 (Grade C+) "},{"Title":"Fair-to-good.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Deeply sentimental film about a single-mother and her child's interactions with a new upstairs neighbour (Anthony Hopkins). The film is mainly shown through the boy's point-of-view, and features the short-comings of his and his mother's life, and Ted's impact upon them.The supernatural ideas at the beginning of the film are soon abandoned as the film takes on a more typical dramatic approach and form, crafting a climax from the simple elements it tastefully introduces.The subject matter is reminiscent of IT, another Stephen King story, as it deals heavily upon the end of childhood, and the apparently usual barriers that a pre-adolescent kid faced in the 60's.Slightly anti-climatic, but better than others in it's class. "},{"Title":"Nothing special in movieland, nothing like the book","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hearts in Atlantis, for an avid fan of the book version, is a disappointment. The story is weak, the script is vague. Too many details are changed for the movie version, and a lot of the more interesting aspects of the story are ignored completely. As a movie, it is sappy, boring, and completely pointless.Maybe if I hadn't read and loved the book I could have enjoyed this movie on its own merit, as a nostalgic ramble along memory lane... A cutsie coming of age/first love story... But my favorite parts of the book were left out, other details were removed, or changed so completely as to be unrecognizable.With the book, you have the opportunity to get to know Bobby, Carol and Sully-John, you experience a bit of each story. You become attached to them, you become attached to Ted and are involved in his tale... You find out the truth behind things...The movie seems to be about some kids, and an old man who lives upstairs from one of them, and a single mom who is distrustful of the kindly old gentleman while trusting the men she should fear.If you've read the book, don't bother watching the movie. If you've seen and enjoyed the movie, read the book to find out the rest of the story. "},{"Title":"A decent movie unfairly compared to the book","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Unfortunately, as regards films based on books, people too often get stuck in the book and therefore can't appreciate the movie.By itself, Hearts in Atlantis is a decent film with good acting that explores the friendship between a lonely older man with a unique gift and a boy. This is, of course, only a small portion of the massive King novel, but stands alone as a decent film.Hopkins is obviously very good as Brautigan.Probably the best thing you could do is to see the movie before you read the book. That way, you will be able to appreciate both of them for what they are individually. "},{"Title":"Overdone and boring","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought the characters, acting and dialog were bad. I kept fast forwarding through it. Too sentimental and melodramatic without real emotion.The only thing I liked was Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"A movie for people who can't read.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most aggravating thing about this movie is that it is NOT about some lovely relationship between a boy and a lonely old man. They should have named the movie something else, because, if you have only seen the movie, would you have absolutely ANY idea what the title means? NO, because the title comes from an ignored part of the story.This IS, however, one of S.K.'s more normal type books, but this movie does such a disservice to his thoughtfully linked bits of time in this man's life, and how the past experiences affected him.Hearts In Atlantis refers to this man's time in college, where the game Hearts was the focus of many of the students. He referred to this time in his life as Atlantis, a sort of mythical dreamland that he knows he can never return to (playing Hearts in Atlantis).Since the movie does not explore any of the story beyond a weird guy and a girlfriend, many of the viewers will look at the supernatural quality of Ted as either being the thoughts of a demented old man, or superfluous oddity thrown into the movie to appease the horror fans who will be watching. Watch the movie and take it as it is, but keep in mind that there is a whole other world in this story if you would pick up a book and READ. "}{"Title":"badly worked out","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion this movie has a pretty weak plot. It is definitely not a thriller at all! The clairvoyance of the stranger (Anthony Hopkins) and the boy doesn't come to its right. The role of the black man (who hunt the stranger because of his clairvoyance) does not become clear. Only positive about this movie is the excellent playing of Anthony. "},{"Title":"Screw this movie","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts in Atlantis, one of Stephen King's finest moments as a novellist, is a stunning portrait of how the 1960s changed the world and how it changed the individual lives of everyone who grew up in that time. This movie takes the first of the five interwoven stories of this group -not even the one called Hearts in Atlantis, by the way- and tries to make it stand alone. The acting is good, and maybe i'd like it if I didn't love the book nearly as much as I do. This book deserved an epic miniseries, something that could cover all that was going on in the book.  This is a cheap, slick hollywood adaptation that misses the whole point.  Buy as many copies of this piece of garbage and burn them for the offensive trash they are. "},{"Title":"A curious and disturbing film","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  told in flashback, somewhat stretching our ability to suspend disbelief, but wonderfully executed.  Imagine that it is the cold war era of the 1960s and unidentified forces are attempting to round up psychics for purposes implied but not named.  Then, a mysterious Edgar Cayce kind of character comes to town on a journey of trying to evade them.  So far so good, but he is too deep on too many levels, both too weird and yet too normal.  The story is not about him, however, but his relationship with the boy who is remembering the story, the boy and his mom, and the boy and his girl friend, and how the tension between these relationships ultimately caused the boy to grow up.  In that sense it is a coming of age film, but with some very strange twists.  Too many mixed metaphors and interests that have nothing to do with the story, leave us wondering why they needed to be there, or why more interesting themes were left undeveloped. "},{"Title":"Oddly unmoved by this effort...","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Warning ****mild spoilers****I expected to enjoy this, I rarely catch a Tony Hopkins performance I do not like and also I avoid his obvious dogs like Hannibal.  Nothing can save this script, and certainly not his weird almost wooden performance.  I failed to see why the kid, Bobby, liked him. I did not read the book and perhaps should, as it has to be better than this clunker which meanders and roams and seems overly stocked with cliches. I was particularly shocked at an adult rape scene intercut with an assault on a young girl and was lead to believe that the young girl was being raped also which was disturbing and further enforced by Bobby carrying her a long distance. It turns out she was not raped but had a shoulder injury which left me puzzled on two fronts, (1)why was it intercut with a rape scene and (2) why did Bobby have to carry her.  I felt badly manipulated. Also, is it just me or is David Morse one of the most depressing actors around. I must have seen him in about 5 movies and everytime, no matter what the scene, he projects this incredible monochromatic sadness. A one theme actor like Helen Hunt, I guess. I do not like the easy transformation of one of the major characters, too slick, it would have worked better if she had stayed in character with the younger actor just accepting her as one of his first major lessons in life. Ah well. 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"not very magical","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I expected more supernatural type stuff since this was written by Stephen King. If they had shown more scenes with Ted using his special abilities, it would have been so much better.  The plot was boring and dragged too much.  And I thought there were story lines that were just kinda left hanging.  And what was the deal with the mom. We didn't really get to see her go through some kind of life change. What was her deal besides just saying she doesn't have money to buy her son a bike.  And what about Bobby's friend, Sully. What did he really have anything to do with the story besides set up the flashbacks. He really had no point to the story when they were kids.FINAL VERDICT  Had potential but could have been better.  This probably would have made a better TV movie. "},{"Title":"i sabotaged myself","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished the book and loved it so much, I thought I would give the movie a try.  If you have read the book, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE.  It may have been good, had i not read the book.  The movie basically dumbs down the book, cornering the characters into little boxes, unlike the book.  I don't want to give too much away, but if you do watch the movie after reading the book, don't expect the same story.  I was devastated. "},{"Title":"Obviously, someone's personal love project.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you ever dreamed of living in a world where children think, act and speak like  62 year-olds with long years of hard life-experience and I.Q's of 173, then this  film is for you. There isn't one bit of dialog out of these kids' mouth that was ever  spoken by a real 10 year old. They all seem to be wiser and more perceptivethan their parents and each actor gets to drool out some eloquent pearl ofwisdom. To make it more unbearable, they all seem to do it in slow motion. The  pretentious (and typically unnecessary) naration only makes it  all the morecloying. I almost went into diabetic shock before the end credits. A low-budget,  afterschool TV special, at best. Anthony Hopkins couldn't seem more bored. "},{"Title":"A disappointment of grand proportions...","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hearts In Atlantis, based on the novel by Stephen King, could have been so much more.  While a full size novel must be changed to fit into a movie's normal viewing time, the story that this movie is based on is but one of four full stories and the denouement of the novel.  So it was not improbable that most of the heart of the original story could have been retained.If you are a King reader, you will be greatly disappointed with the story. Bobby Garfield, the child lead character, loses much of the charm from the original story.  Ted Brautigan, played very well by Anthony Hopkins (based on what he had to go on from the screenplay), loses so much of the mystery and humanity of the King book, and seems almost supernatural rather than someone loving earth, humankind, and the beautiful innocense of childhood.I watched the interview by the director (Scott Hicks) with Anthony Hopkins. It soon became apparent that neither man had read the novel by Stephen King. How sad.  Imagine what could have been given the novels emphasis on love, hope, and the losing of our childhood innocense.  'Do we ever really leave behind our childhood,' Bobby Garfield ponders at the end of the novel? Watching Mr. Hick's version of the movie tells us, Yes.  If I think I can make more money doing it this way.I love you, Ted, says Bobby toward the end of the novel.  That, and how truly special his relationship was with both Ted and Carol seems lost in the mish-mash of changes from the book to the screenplay.The ending does not fit in the movie as it did so eloquently in the novel. Do yourself a favor and buy (or borrow from your public library) the wonderful audio version of the novel and listen to William Hurt read the unabridged version the way the movie should have done it -- with heart and childlike awe.  "},{"Title":"Not great,not bad","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have not read the book on which HEARTS IN ATLANTIS is based but I know more happens in it than in this film,which is like Cliffs Notes with pages ripped out. The cast does a fine job,especially Anthony Hopkins, whose scenes are gently ethereal. Personally,my favorite part was when Anton Yelchin beat the crap out of that bully. "},{"Title":"Every movie you've ever seen about 1960 for one low price.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I suppose I should be impressed that this ridiculous little movie managed to pack in every stereotypical late 50s early 60s scene that one can imagine, but somehow, it didn't do it for me.  Anthony Hopkins is, of course, excellent, but with the large body of high-quality work he has accumulated, there is no reason to justify wasting your time on this garbage for his occasional brilliant moment.  The rest of the acting is subpar, and when Hopkins isn't speaking, it becomes much more apparent that the writing is, too.  Really, did they just sit down and watch The Sandlot, Simon Birch, My Girl, and the first two seasons of The Wonder Years and then figure that's what life was like for kids forty years ago, everybody speaking in inane sports metaphors, living on the east coast, it's always summer, and the fair's always in town?  Oh yeah, and we can't forget the central importance of bicycles and prepubescent romance.  When I was eleven, I wasn't looking to start a long-term relationship with any girl, but apparently kids used to grow up a lot more quickly. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After giving the world two such wonderful films as 'Shine' and 'Snow Falling On Cedars,' I guess Scott Hicks as earned the right to make a bad one.  The central problem here is the story.  It made sense alongside the others in Stephen King's book, but here, deprived of its context and meaning, it just doesn't play.  It looks, sounds and feels just like a film that should have you crying &#150; and gives you everything but a reason to do so.  Hopkins still manages to be excellent as Ted Brautigan, Anton Yelchin as the young Bobby is fine, and Hicks manages to evoke the period very well.  But in the end there's something missing at the heart of this film &#150; a point.  There might be a lesson here in the adaptation of Stephen King stories &#150; if you're going to hold back on the violence or the supernatural, then you need to replace them with something else.  Bryan Singer's 'Apt Pupil' did this very well. "},{"Title":"Simple and disappointing!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well I saw this movie yesterday and I can honestly say that I didn't like it at all. Mr. Hopkins couldn't save it even a bit. He's one of the most outstanding actors nowadays, but his performance in this movie wasn't as riveting as I thought it'd be, since he really didn't say much throughout the movie. As for the kids who played Bobby and his girlfriend, I consider their performances weren't so convincing. I understand they're kids who are just starting to act in movies, but I think they both could have given better performances to make this movie more believable. The plot is confusing and incomplete; however it's rather interesting. I must stress that I didn't get bored over the course of the movie, on the contrary It kept my interest from beginning to end. I was intrigued to know why Ted (Anthony Hopkins) knew everybody's past; nevertheless when the movie ends, it really doesn't answer my questions. A specific explanation about the characters is missing as well as a complete definition of the plot.Hearts in Atlantis is not a touching and outstanding movie, even though it shows magical experiences and reminds you of your youth. The only part I really liked of this movie is the way that Bobby remembers his youth. It's remembered as something beautiful and sometimes painful. Anyway I'm so glad I didn't have to pay anything for this movie, since a friend of mine rented it. I'm also glad I didn't see it on the big screen. If I'd have done it I'm pretty sure I had regretted it. Try to watch it if you like magical movies, otherwise don't try to see it, because it's highly unlikely you'll like it. 3/10   "},{"Title":"Wanted to like it, just couldn't","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I usually like movies made from Stephen King books.  I loved Shawshank Redemption, Green Mile, Stand By Me, and was hoping this would be another.  It wasn't.  I had heard not so great things about the movie, but I still had my hopes.  First of all, I couldn't imagine anyone liking this movie if they hadn't read the book.  It just wouldn't make any sense.  I don't think I would understand why Bobby cares so much about Ted based on the movie.  <small spoiler> Plus, Jeez, what kind of a guy would bring the boy to a pool hall at night and just leave him alone (in the book, this was done during the day, when the place was almost deserted)?I have to agree with the lack of character development, my guess is that the director and script writer were counting on its audience reading the book beforehand.  Having read the book, the movie just seemed like an excuse to put together a bunch of powerful scenes together without going through the effort to give them any background. The scenes are all probably pretty good, but I can't get past the idea that they don't make a whole lot of sense based on what we are given of the characters.  I honestly think that if they had the voice of the adult Bobby explaining some things, briefly, between scenes it would have done a world of good.  A simple  I became really close to Ted over the summer.  Would have done a whole lot more than the simple scenes of him reading the paper to him, which I suppose were supposed to convey this.  Anyway, the material was there to make a good movie.  The performances were fine, I guess.  Hard to tell, when you can't really figure on any characters particular motivation.  As it stands, the movie is pretty bad. "},{"Title":"Some of the worst acting ever","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sometimes a film comes along that contains such a riveting plot and brilliant script that any poor acting is forgivable--Hearts in Atlantis is NOT one of those films.  The acting, direction, and script are so painfully bad that I had essentially no interest in any of the characters nor the film's semi-interesting storyline by the halfway point.  Anthony Hopkins is, of course, remarkable, but not enough to carry the entire weight of the movie.  Director Scott Hicks and screenplay writer William Goldman should choose new career paths.  Child actor Anton Yelchin recites his lines as if he is in a first grade play, and Hope Davis fares no better with her obviously forced emotionalism and limp effort to study her character.  I wouldn't put Stand by Me nor The Green Mile in the same sentence with this farce of a film.   "},{"Title":"A bit shallow","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm very familiar with King's works, although this is not one that I have yet read.  I could tell from the movie that if you had read the book, you probably would have gotten a lot more enjoyment out of it because you would be able to fill in the blanks.  The story was interesting, but the character development (and plot development for that matter) were very superficial.  Anthony Hopkins was great as always and the depiction of a child's world was well done, but seemed to be 'cut off' possibly due to the director's idea of how long the movie should be.  The story was intriguing enough for me to go back and read the actual King story, which I'm sure will complete what I considered to be superficial work. "},{"Title":"Ted (Anthony Hopkins) is the catalyst, but this is a story of three kids growing up in the 60s.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS - I think there is a tendency to overrate this film because of its style, but there really isn't too much story here. The title comes from a conversation where Ted says that kids look at life very optimistically, like it probably was in Atlantis, so their hearts are always in Atlantis. Being a Stephen King story, we expect some mysticism in it. Here Ted is expertly played by the best actor of our time, Sir Anthony Hopkins. He is a true psychic, and the CIA is trying to find him to put them into secret government service. He ends up as a boarder in this small New England town, until he is found and taken away by men in dark clothes, hats, and fancy cars.As a boarder his life crosses paths with three 11-year-old friends, two boys and a girl (Gerber Baby taunts an older, homosexual bully). Their quiet conversations and temporary transfer of psychic powers has a lasting impact on the formation of these children. One of the boys has returned to his hometown in present time, a writer, about 50 years old, to bury one of the other two. He had left 40 years earlier when his widowed mom lost her job and had to leave town. He asks about Carol Gerber, Oh, you didn't hear -- she's dead.  He is overcome with grief, he was so looking forward to seeing again the first girl he ever kissed, the one to whom all future ones will be compared, said Ted. But he comes across this teenage girl who happens to be Carol's daughter, they visit, and life goes on.A very nice movie, good acting and good photography, but not with a lot of lingering impact. "},{"Title":"A poor re-creation of Low Men in Yellow Coats (by S King)","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had with excitement decided to go along and see this film having read the book and throughly enjoyed it. The book Hearts in Atlantis, was a few stories that all made reference to one another at the end (very clever). Low men in Yellow Coats was the first of these stories and the one in which the film had been based.I had read some other reviews that had compared it to the likes of Stand by Me and yes it was very similar in that it broke no new ground. I was disappointed to discover that not only were the characters extremely shallow but that they simply did not come across as being from the sixties (when the film was set).But sadly what I was most disappointed about was just how much the film had had cut from it and been changed, down to the fundamentals. eg. the  very concept of the leading character and the ending! I am well aware that when a book is then created into a film that something can easily be lost along the way. But when the film had eventually drawn to an end, I found myself questioning what exactly had been the point of the film at all. Like I said the ending was indeed sad due to fact that it had no point and I had wasted two hours of my time watching it.For entertainment value if you don't get out much 6/10. My score for this film 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Could be better...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Right from the start I have to admit that this movie is not a bad one at all (which is why I - somewhat begrudgingly - give it eight stars.)  However, it has several very noticeable flaws, which need to be pointed out.I had rather high expectations for this film - as I will for any film made by the director of Shine and/or starring Anthony Hopkins.  Hopkins did not disappoint at all; his performance is excellent, even if somewhat reminiscent of his other similar roles.  The directorial work of Scott Hicks, however, leaves a lot to be desired.  He is a director capable of work that is nothing short of brilliant; yet in this film he seems to overlook (or is it conscious?) such obvious flaws in the actors' performances that one begins to wonder if hasn't lost the touch.  It is especially noticeable in the performances of Anton Yelchin (Bobby) and Hope Davis (his mother.)  Anton seems to be a gifted young actor, but he constantly switches between playing a sort of 11-year-old adult (most of the scenes involving his mother) and a kindergarten kid (the scene where he crosses his fingers in response to Ted telling him about The Kiss.)  Hope Davis behaves so strangely on screen that I suspect that she never had any children of her own; granted, she is supposed to play a bad mother, but the character she ends up creating onscreen is simply not a believable mother at all, bad or good.  One does not need to be a professional psychologist to notice that.  Both of these performances are deeply flawed, but in both cases it seems to be mostly the director's fault.Overall, there would be no harm done if the movie was made a little longer, if that allowed the creators to explore the characters' relationships and especially certain obscure parts of the story (of which there are plenty) a bit further.Having said all that, I need to say that I enjoyed the movie very much, and it really is a breath of fresh air (as one reviewer put it) among the great hordes of mindless, pointless and useless flicks that Hollywood insists on producing.  It really is a fascinating story, the cinematography is breathtaking, and all in all the film is truly beautiful, in the fullest sense of the word.  It's just a little sad that something that had a great promise was simply underdeveloped. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As It Should Have Been","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you forget the book (as the writers did) and pull out the SciFi and make Brautigan a more normal person, what you have here is something like 'Stand By Me' with an elderly man as a mentor.I did like the movie and it did do a great job in establishing character and plot, but it was not the book.By all rights it should have been better because the source story was so rich.  The second viewing forced me to look at it as a stand-alone story and it did do what it was suppose to do, but it could have expanded in areas that it did not (e.g., the 'rape' of the mother, the revenge, Brautigan's capture, etc.)Oh well, maybe TV will get a hold of the rights and do a proper job in mini-series format.  "},{"Title":"Should have been a TV movie.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw Hearts in Atlantis...I wanted to like the film sooo bad..I love Anthony Hopkins, love Stephen King films, (Shawshank, Green Mile, Dead Zone, especially) but this film was a waste of my time.  The only thing refreshing about it is of course the performance of Sir Anthony.  The other actors were horrible.  The mother, whoever played her, did a horrendous job.  She seemed wooden.  Her lines were horrible, and she made them sound even worse. Some actors can take a horrendous line and make it sound interesting or cool...this is not the case in Atlantis.  The little boy and the scenes with his friends were a Stand By Me rip off...Sully's baseball glove/UPS/present day thingy at the beginning was stupid especially since the kid is hardly in the movie.  He dies and our hero gets the mitt. So what??  And the main kid was horrible at acting sad.  The scene where he throws the 2 grand at his mother's feet was laughable..Gosh I could waste more time typing more on this film but I wont...I was hoping the end would be amusing, but it was not at all...trite filmmaking...this should have been a TV movie called Heartless in Atlantis cause this film certaintly is. "}{"Title":"Ponderous, predictable !!! SPOILERS !!!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this last night on video and can say I am glad I didn't pay for it!First let me preface this short review by saying that I love Stephen King's short stories, especially his 'non-horror' ones.  Let me also say that I have not read the book, but as I am giving a movie review, the film should stand on it's own merits.As someone mentioned previously, characters are not fleshed out and we barely get to know them.  The three kids are supposed to be best friends, til death do them part etc, however the relationship between them is barely sketched, with the kid with baseball glove (can't remember his name) is barely mentioned.Focusing on Ted, his powers, his pursuers and whatnot are not adequately explained, why they want him, why he is avoiding them etc.As for the actor who plays young Bobby, comparing him to the star of The Sixth Sense is a little bit of a stretch.  This is a young boy who appeared to have trouble playing a young boy, with over exaggerated body language and speech.Themes and foreshadowing are served up half-baked and can be seen a mile away.Obviously the focus of the movie is the relationship of the boy to the older man, but overall nothing happens in the movie and it happens slowly!!Stand By Me and Shawshank Redemption are much better examples of King's characters being transferred to the big screen.As for me, I am going to read the book to see how it *should* be done. "},{"Title":"intriguing but flawed movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on a part of a novel by Stephen King, `Hearts In Atlantis' is a coming-of-age nostalgia piece with a supernatural twist.  Here we find King in one of his gentler moods, telling the story of a young boy named Bobby Garfield, growing up fatherless in a small rural town circa 1960.  During that fateful summer, a mysterious drifter, Ted Brautigan, a man of many strange moods and secrets, takes up residence in the attic room of the Garfield house and quickly befriends Bobby, even going so far as to inadvertently impart some of his psychic powers to the lad.  Since Anthony Hopkins seems to carry his Hannibal Lector persona with him wherever he goes, the famed British actor is probably the perfect choice to play this odd man whose enigmatic mood and attitude are as much a mystery to us as they are to Bobby and his suspicious mother.`Hearts In Atlantis' has a number of undeniable virtues that make it at least an interesting film for most of its duration fine acting, subtle mood swings and an air of both personal reflection and quiet foreboding.  Hopkins and young Anton Yelchin establish a wonderful rapport in their many scenes together and we eagerly await the revelations involving Ted's mysterious background.  Here, however, is where the film runs into trouble, for when those revelations finally do come, we find that they are obscure, incredible and rather silly when you get right down to it.  Moreover, the film's plot has an unfortunate tendency to veer off into melodramatics that are never very clearly or handily dealt with.  And the film's bookend sequences set in the present day drip with a sort of easy sentimentality that threatens to smother the movie form start to finish.  The voice-over narration - of a middle-aged Bobby looking back over his childhood - is particularly cloying and annoying.Thus, engrossing as the film manages to be most of the time, we are ultimately left questioning its overall point and purpose.   Fine as it is in parts, `Heart In Atlantis' doesn't really add up to much in the long run.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious and contrived","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I never read the book, so I have nothing to compare it to as far as the original material, but a movie should be able to stand on its own and this one doesn't, which is a shame, considering who is involved. I rented it only because William Goldman wrote the script and I love Goldman, but I have to say, this is some of his worst work. It's almost cookie cutter written, with the usual cliched coming of age kids and stock 60s music.  I was hoping for more of the powers of Hopkin's character to save the movie, but it was barely used, which was a shame. The performances are all good, but the movie drags and could have used another draft.  If you want to see Goldman as his best, rent All the President's Men, Marathon Man or even Ghost in the Darkness. "},{"Title":"This is one of the worst movies","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe that there are people who actually think this is a 10 out of 10 movie. Hearts of Atlantis is the perfect example of how Hollywood can transform millions of dollars into crap.The script is flat, no climax, only a succession of wise and literary one-liners by Hopkins and cute ones from the little kid. It's just simply boring. Bad adaption from a King story. I guess you have to read the story first in order to fully understand how the director and the screenwriter messed up Hearts in Atlantis.  "},{"Title":"merciful lord!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh Boy, and I thought Kiss of the Dragon was bad!!  At least it didnt feature one of the greatest actors in film history making a fool out of himself for a couple of hours.  Seriously, what on EARTH was Sir Hopkins thinking when he signed on for this DOG!!!  This movie was poorly directly, pathetically acted, contained no plot and accomplished nothing.We are lured into this film hoping it will conjure up memories of Shawshank or even the Green Mile, instead it shows that King's true medium should always be horror and not drama.  Where are the twists?  Where is the supernatural content?  When the movie ends, does anybody care?this movie was HORRIBLE...easily the worst movie I have seen in a couple of years...I have to go watch a Jackie Chan movie just to renew my film interest (i'll still avoid Jet Li though) 2/10 "},{"Title":"Low Expectations","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know if it's just me, or something all veteran movie-buffs experience at one time or another, to see a production that had the potential to be great, but for one reason or another, defeats itself.Hearts in Atlantis is just such a movie. If William Goldman had a little imagination, and not all consumed by the Stephan King mystique, this story could have been a contender.It began with the framework of a story that both parents and children could have shared. Childhood memories, first loves, friends and bullies but also went a step further by having the character of focus 'Bobby' (Anton Yelchin) as an only child of a struggling and inattentive single parent and  whose best friends Carol (Mika Boorem) and Sully (Will Rothaar ) have a more 'traditional' and happy family life. Ted Brautigan (Anthony Hopkins), who appears as a retired, but self sufficient drifter, gently fills the absent-parent gap in Bobby's everyday life.Stephan King novels never translate well into cinema. His brilliant written works subtly suggest the subplots and manipulates those all-common hidden fears of the reader. The palette of cinema is too narrow and incomplete for his complicated plots and subplots. The end result in cinema is inconsistent and confusing and in the case of Hearts in Atlantis, somewhat disturbing.Something must be said, though, for Anthony Hopkins' performance. Mr. Hopkins gracefully sidesteps the old Hollywood adage to never work with kids or animals. Although it appears to be a case of under acting, he seems to purposely tone down his overpower acting talents and tosses the focus back to 'Bobby' scene after scene, as if he were playing a game of catch.'Hearts in Atlantis' left me wishing that someone would (please) give Anthony Hopkins a non-sinister and award winning role in a major production. His talent deserves such recognition. "},{"Title":"Nothing bad, nothing great.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (Possible Spoilers)  I don't see the big deal here. Anthony Hopkins does a good job but doesn't deliver an Oscar caliber performance in Hearts in Atlantis. The film is pretty boring for the most part, even for a character driven movie. I've never read the novel, but I think quite a bit of it was cut out, because I just felt like there was a better film waiting to get out, but the chopped up script wouldn't allow it.  I don't think I've seen a film where absolutely nothing happens for the entire running time. I mean there's a lot of talking between Hopkins and the young boy (Anton Yelchin) are the best part of the movie, it's just too bad the rest of the film isn't as good as these scenes.  Well, I don't really know how to describe it but this film didn't leave me feeling happy, but it didn't leave me feeling sad either, I just felt like I had just watched some people talking for awhile. If I wanted that I could have gone and talked to my friends instead of watching this movie. Not bad, just not great, ** out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"An awful movie","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the previews, I thought the movie might be interesting, but I couldn't be more wrong. If you've seen the trailer, you've seen all the movie, everything is there, except all the bad acting of Hopkins.Don't waste your money on this movie, watch it on TV instead.  "},{"Title":"hugely underdeveloped","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The saying that the books are better than the movies has never been more true. I read King's Heart's Of Atlantis last summer, and I thought it was a great read of a young man's journey to adulthood through boyhood and college during the vietnam era. But I will spare you the book vs. movie comparison, since we're discussing the movie only.For starters, the characters aren't developed enough. As an audience, we never learn why they do the things they do, what drives them - except for Bobby's mom, while not fully explained, there's enough for the audience to deduce her motivation. Anthony Hopkins's character, Ted, is introduced immediately, before any other characters. The list goes on and on, from John Sully, Bobby's friend, to Harry Doolan, the schoolyard bully. I felt that even Ted and Bobby never met their potential as central characters.The characters are thrust upon you, and we're supposed to figure it out as we go along - not a bad idea if the characters are introduced fully, say, as in Magnolia. While this isn't a movie of that magnitude, the end of the movie left me with a lot of why's?To me, it felt like the script was just thrown together in hopes that audiences would come to see it based on their experience with The Green Mile, also by King.I guess this would be the Tomb Raider of the drama genre based on its weak script. All in all, I give it a 5, and that's only because Hopkins was in it.  "},{"Title":"Nothing about this movie makes a lasting impression.","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie left me really unimpressed. Don't you just hate it when a movie is over and it gave you absolutely nothing in the end. It's a real pointless movie, that you can easily do without ever seeing.Problem really is its story. Not sure if I can say that it's the actual story that is being bad but I think it's more the way it all gets told in this movie. First of all, a young boy starts to befriend an elderly guy and they really have a bond together, basically from the start on already but quite frankly I really can't see why these two like each other so much. Secondly, the movie presents itself as a mystery movie, without ever featuring any mystery. I mean, it's pretty clear from the beginning on that the elderly guy has some sort of clairvoyant powers and the movie doesn't go anywhere with its story that makes this movie a mysterious one. As a matter of fact, the story in the end still leaves more questions than answers, which has nothing to do with the mystery but simply because the movie doesn't bother to explain- or tie up everything.The movie has a bunch of different story lines thrown together, which make it apparent that this is a movie that got based on a novel. You would think this all would give the movie and its characters some more depth but the movie remains shockingly on the shallow side. Even when the movie gets more dramatic it fails to call out any emotion. This might all be also very well due to the fact that the movie doesn't really feature a 'problem' that needs to get resolved. Basically the main element in its story is that the FBI is chasing ans searching for the elderly character but this just never hit me as anything threatening. The FBI were supposed to be the bad guys but quite frankly I don't see how they are supposed to be 'evil' in this movie. Apparently the elderly guy escaped from the government/FBI because his clairvoyant powers were being used in the fight against communism (the movie its main story is being set in the '60's) but it's not like it ever becomes apparent as if they were threatening him bad, like torturing him or holding him in a special build cell, or anything like that. Seems that he is just really needed in the 'fight' against communism and how can this be a bad thing? It's not like he had a family at home to take care off or anything better to do with his life because all he does in this movie is sitting on the porch and having a smoke.Perhaps the movie was more supposed to be a coming of age type of movie, told from the eyes of the young boy but to me the overall movie instead came merely across as a look into the life of a boys most exciting and eventful weeks. But I don't feel like the movie movie its story made the boy go through any transition, like a coming of age movie would normally do. Just because he gets his first kiss doesn't make this a coming of age movie.Thing that still kept this movie somewhat going was its acting. I really liked Anthony Hopkins and the child actors were also quite good, as far as child acting goes. Anton Yelchin didn't do a very good job with the emotional scenes but other than that he was simply good, as was Mika Boorem, who I have always liked as a young actress.It's also a quite good looking movie, that does a good job at capturing the look and feel of 1960's, America's Everytown. This is all also really thanks to the nice looking cinematography by Piotr Sobocinski.So it really is not like this movie is the most horrible thing you'll ever sit through but in the end the movie leaves you puzzled at what it was supposed to be. It doesn't pick one clear approach to its story and it does a bit of everything, with as a result that nothing works out as good or powerful as it was supposed to be and potentially also could had been. It's the reason why this movie is a very forgettable one and even one that by the end just leaves a very redundant impression.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Contrived and Phony... avoid if your IQ is over 100!!!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was extremely let down by this movie. The story was very predictable and phony. I'm a huge fan of Anthony Hopkins so i kept giving this movie a second chance but it really didn't deliver. It didn't come through at all because the story gives up nothing in the end, no surprises or anything here folks. It keeps playing on very familiar themes already done in many other movies. I wish I kept a checklist of the inconsistencies i noticed in this film because i found at least a dozen. So in my opinion, the actors gave a performance 6/10 and the story was a 1/10. The story line really dragged the actors down with them. I feel bad because Anthony Hopkins is such a great actor. "},{"Title":"Only good thing was Hopkins","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was pretty disappointed with this movie.  There was no spirit to it, nothing to really latch on to and say I enjoyed that aspect.  The closest was Anthony Hopkins who's presence in the movie overpowered every other aspect of the movie.  The only other character that had enough screen time to get at all developed was bobby.  And bobby was boring, he just developed into a could stand up for himself kind of boring.I also didn't at all appreciate the whole framing of the story.  How the movie is bookended by the present with the bulk of the movie as a long flashback.  None of the scenes in the present added to the movie, with the only benefit being the addition of voice-over during the entire movie.  Of course that is largely a personal preference.As for the story as a whole...  It was largely lacking.  Too much of the story and characters had to be guessed at in order to fill in the picture.  For instance the bullys show up something like 4 times.  Each meeting is brief and just thrown into the mix.  And then there is Sully who just kind of disappears from the movie.Basically I think this movie needed at least another hour of solid content to be considered good, and then it might even be great. "},{"Title":"The Fart by which all others will be measured.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ben Johnson, himself a library card holder and given to flatulence, once said, Time is a bald man trying to recapture his youth by watching sappy nostalgia.Scott Hicks' formulaic approach to Stephen King is kinda stale.  Shades of THE GREEN MILE clash with STAND BY ME and FIRESTARTER.Psychic is on the run from the government, who would deprive him of his civil liberties to selfishly use him for nefarious purposes.  Boo!  Hiss!Meanwhile, Nostalgia washes over us with peaches-and-cream-complexioned youngsters enjoying perfect comradery while struggling with adolescence and bullies, all the while backed up by aptly-cued orchestra, Oldies hits, and pristinely-waxed vintage cars.  Yawn.Still, it's nicely-crafted Formula, and the two leads (Hopkins and the kid, Anton Yelchin.) make it acceptable. "},{"Title":"Rather Bland movie","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   Well I know I saw a movie - it left me kinda flat - either it needed more character development, or a plot - I'm not sure what would have helped this hybrid that tried to be a cross between Stand by Me, and The Green Mile -- This movie just didn't succeed, despite Sir Anthony Hopkins!  He did a great job with a bad script.  Unfortunately not a good enough script to leave you with the feeling you had witnessed a great piece of cinema.  Instead, it left us with the feeling - okay well that killed a couple of hours.I'd give the movie 2 1/2 stars out of 5.  Its an OKAY movie, if you need to kill sometime - otherwise - don't waste your money.What this movie needed, was a REAL ending....  "},{"Title":"Hearts of Lettuce","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Another formula picture about childhood discovery in the salad days, this time from the Ray Bradbury playbook. It comes close to being pleasantly dull, but it consistently moves past the cloying. This is another of Hopkins' recent `vacation' films.King is no dummy, he. So we have lots of the formulaic depth the self-referential framing of a photographer revisiting his childhood, one in which he could `see' the thoughts of others. While in this state, he conjures up (?) a similar mystically-inclined friend who constantly links the `insight' to reading. Got it, seventh graders? Now the wheels turn with all the stereotypes and minicrises of the era, and guess what? A Nixonian cabal comes and takes his friend away and after that he loses the `insight.' This is briefly recaptured when he gives a picture of his old, excessively idealized girlfriend to her daughter.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Capturing tale with much depth.","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" An unusual gem among the common filter of American Hollywood films, that contains all the necessary substance to keep you fascinated. Most of all this film gives you a deep and personal relationship to all the characters involved, who come alive till the point you forget you watch a film. It's been a while since I last experienced this while watching a film so the talent on display here was extraordinary. The story itself so well written it sneaks up upon you and grabs you, pulling you in when you least expect it. I must admit that I haven't read the book, but I feel now I really should do so.The subject matter this vividly told story touches are fascinating on so many levels. Almost so this seems like an historical interpretation of the sense of unease during the time of the cold war. It also deals with prejudice, sexuality identity, fear and aggression, social norms and last but not by the slightest least &#150; love.The screenplay, mise en scéne, editing, music and direction are also to be commended, not to mention the acting performances. I never really cared so much for Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lector, though he does his role beautifully. I also get mighty impressed when I see kids that can act, which Anton Yelchin and Mikaela Boorem certainly proved they can. Hope Davis too manages to make her character come alive in a way I seldom see in recent Hollywood hotshots. Overall this film has enjoyed very good casting.The only complaint I might have, is that the epilogue was a bit out of place. I personally find it somewhat condescending when a film explains to me what I've just seen, but after all this was only the last couple of minutes of the film. Makes you wonder if that just might have been a producer decision. So almost top marks from me to Hearts in Atlantis.9/10 "}]