[{"Title":"Ashes to Ashes!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"167 out of 212 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The usual quota of surface reviews here. Are we living in a totally one-dimensional society these days that has no time now for unsupported fantasy - Just the facts Ma'am, Just the facts!We have here an adult fairytale no less, yet what do I read (and I include paid media critics here) but absurd negative comments such as How did McConaughey and his intrepid band of marines come up with the fuel to cross the atlantic?  Why are the children seemingly so well fed in a period of pestilence?  Where does the seemingly limitless fuel come from? etc etc. Who CARES?????????   this is a DRAGON fantasy for God sakes! Someone want to set up a Government enquiry as to why fairies speak English? the possibility that Humpty Dumpty had a middle-ear infection? Perhaps the Easter Bunny has some communicable diseases that he should be tested for?Ok REIGN OF FIRE is not up there with other sci-fi classics and the marketing department should be answering charges of misrepresentation for that poster showing an aerial armada of helicopters battling the fire-breathing beasties over central London - that just never happens but I gotta tell you REIGN OF FIRE has some of the greatest set designs and cinematography I have ever seen. It is extremely interesting to LOOK at from a technical viewpoint. The dragons themselves make the least interesting contribution to the film and except for the final confrontation which almost gets there they are really secondary to the film itself. If you were to actually record the amount of dragon screen time I doubt it would be 18 minutes....and most of them are not far off laughable. Curiously, that aspect alone should have wrecked it for me...but it didn't - I found the wasteland asharamas totally credible and involving.I thought the much maligned McConaughey's role not without interest. Still haven't worked out whether or not Mad Matt was supposed to be some hybrid creation - part Patton, part Maximus, part Captain Ahab or just all grunt. He certainly handled his last solo flight with flair and derring-do. Basil Rathbone himself never swung a meaner sword! Christian Bale replete with his best know wot I mean brit accent was pretty good I thought as Quinn the reluctant colony leader. What I couldn't believe is how the years have treated Izabella Scorupco the most beautiful Bond girl I ever saw (GOLDENEYE). I realise that a decade of fighting dragons and close-contact aeriel combat takes a lot out of a girl but she looked 20 years older! I would never have recognised her. Totally shattered an illusion I have maintained of her. If she said Boys with Toys now, I think I'd need a double vodka-martini!But I digress.  The dragon fx were just so-so, they saved the best for last sensibly. The script had its moments but the production work and set-design were simply awesome...SO good in fact, the rest of the film really didn't matter! Overall I would bequeath it a 6.9. Worth seeing if one is prepared to watch it in the spirit that it was made. "},{"Title":"Pretty Straightforward Stuff","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"101 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was a bit different than one expected. There was no nonsense, no tongue-in-cheek humor or special-effects just for the sake of it this was simply a humans vs. dragons story taking place in the future. No laughs and nothing hokey, which is what I expected. They played it straight, simply as a fight story between the two parties.Yes, there were credibility problems with the story but overall, it was good escapist adventure. The dragons were realistic-looking, the scenery dreary but the story interesting and intense in spots.I wouldn't buy it, but I would definitely recommend it if you are looking for a night of adventure on film. You could do a whole lot worse, especially with two young actors who have arrived as stars Christian Bale and Matthew McConnaughey. "},{"Title":"Silly but entertaining b-grade post-apocalyptic thriller.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"102 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Seems like I'm in a minority enjoying this one! It amazes me that so many people are quick to put the boot in to this (admittedly) silly but entertaining b-grade post-apocalyptic thriller yet line up to watch the absolutely awful and overblown Star Wars movies. Yes, I said b-grade, because despite the budget being close to $100 million, that's exactly what it is, a b-grade sci fi movie, no more, no less. Fans of Roy Ward Baker's 'Quatermass and the Pit', Larry Cohen's 'Q The Winged Serpent' and Tobe Hooper's 'Lifeforce', all of which 'Reign Of Fire' reminded me of at various points, will enjoy this one more than the Blockbuster crowd. Christian Bale ('American Psycho') and Matthew McConaughey ('Frailty') are both pretty good as the leader of an underground community and a hardass military man respectively, who both have different approaches to their shared problem - the ongoing threat of dragon attacks. Yes, in this future dragons are real and have devastated the world, and only a handful of human survivors exist.  Once you can accept that premise, and some of the scientific explanations for the why and wherefores of the dragons, you're in for a wild ride. No-one's gonna argue this is a great movie, but it's a lot of fun, and I recommend it, especially with beer and pizza. "},{"Title":"An interesting step for science fiction","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"99 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure, it was cheesy and low budget, but  the indomitable Rob Bowman didn't pull any  punches in this futuristic drama about dragons.  Giving a scientific edge to a creature based in  fantasy, this film proved to be a rather refreshing  step in science fiction, which means it won't  be a well received one. Even if this film barely  makes its money back, at least it leaves the  door open for other fantastic ideas in the science  fiction genre. As for the film, the technical side was excellent.  Bowman, a former television director proves  he can do just as well with a 50 million dollar  budget (?) and a tough to sell idea. Both  Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey were  believable as care taking heroes. Their bipolar  dynamic was especially excellent, creating tension  not just in beliefs but also in culture and devotion  to country. McConaughey was especially good  as Van Zant (which was well cast, considering  he is an actual southerner), bringing a role to  his resume which I had never seen. All in all,  a decent film to watch. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Mis-Advertised","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"50 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film. It shows the very human struggle to survive after they've been knocked from the top of the food chain. It blends medieval mythology with a modern era breathlessly. Definitely an original take on Man vs Dragon. Now to get this straight, this is a film about Humans, not about Dragons. The dragons merely supply the unique reason for the apocalypse. This is a film about the post-apocalypse, not the apocalypse. It's not about skies full of Dragons turning worldwide armed forces into ash on an epic scale. It's not about Dragons setting the world, quite literally, on fire. It's about after all that's happened.Which is a shame this was advertised as a film about Dragons burning all life as we know it. Of course, everyone goes in expecting to see 90 minutes of Dragons destroying everything. If this had been advertised as a more human film about after these Dragons have completely wasted everything, I really think this could've been seen as a good film. It unfortunately set expectations high in the wrong sort of viewers by a mind-blowingly epic trailer.Christian Bale, Gerard Butler and Matthew McConaughey all deliver their role superbly, and the script isn't as bad as it's made out to be either. The effects were great and the Dragons do look pretty realistic, to the point I almost believed this was a documentary. Okay, so there are some plot holes, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to fill those in yourself. I mean, does everything have to be explained so obviously? The only reason this film gets 4 stars and not 5 is because, being a film about human struggle, it could've done with a bit more character development. Other than that, it's a deeply entertaining, well-acted, suspenseful film.Don't knock it before you see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"another neglected classic","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"106 out of 172 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think this is the best post-apocalyptic action film since The Road Warrior. Everything about it works the story, the acting, the sets, the special effects. It amazes me that this film never found it's audience. I think it's fantastic.A really interesting take on the dragon myth. Something never seen before in a film. Unfortunately, that summer of 2002 all anyone could think about was the over hyped debut of spider man. Such a shame, because this film beats it by a mile in terms of imagination on display. The sequence where men attempt to snare a dragon in mid-air is something that has never been seen before on-screen. Amazing and excellent stuff, pulled off with panache. "},{"Title":"Superb visuals make this a bit more than just glorious mindless fun.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" `Reign of Fire's' premise is simple the world has been wiped out by airborne, fire-breathing dragons, who at first multiplied by the thousands but now themselves are starving and dying off.  A few bands of people remain here and there trying to survive.  Quinn (Christian Bale, with whiskers and glottal stops), who was on the scene as a boy in London when the first sleeping dragon awakened in a cave unearthed by an Underground project his mum was working on, leads a group of survivors in the north of England who're just trying to get a crop going for the next year and save a little mob of children.  In comes Van Zan (Mathew McConaughey, with shaved head and brawny tattooed arms) leading an American helicopter crew. He's become a dragon slayer and since he's found there's only one male dragon left and it's somewhere around London, he's come to solicit aid.  Quinn refuses.  Van Zan pushes on to London without Quinn.  They fail.  He returns and begs Quinn to come as guide.  What follows is the finale.If you probe too deeply into the premise you're not going to have any fun, but fun is what this movie offers, glorious mindless fun and, above all, fabulous apocalyptic visuals of twisted metal, crepuscular landscapes, dark hulking ruins, and men crawling through them to fire off weapons at the evil birds, which look very graceful as they sweep through the skies and spurt out long expanding streams of fire.  Shots are so stunningly composed you want them to freeze-frame.  Within the dark end-of-the-world light there is amazing clarity. Working with Ridley Scott's cinematographer Adrian Biddle, X-Files director Rob Bowman has produced the best fantasy landscape this year next to `Lord of the Rings.'  When Van Zan leads a hunt in the sky, it's like a computer game, and sometimes we see the game through the eyes of the dragon and it looks like a degraded digital film.  However, it's not ingenuity of conception but sheer aesthetic appeal that makes the visuals of this movie so good.The other large positive factor is the very solid, mostly English cast including a number of appealing youngsters led by Scott James Moutter as Jared, Quinn's adopted son, not to mention Bale, who brings a striking level of naturalness and conviction to his role as the sensitive, conscience-stricken Quinn.  Bale's a foil to McConaughey's American macho militarist icon.  McConaughey, whose finely chiseled face can be seen staring in mirrors in `Thirteen Conversations About One Thing,' is having a lark playing a brute here, but in the moments when he isn't shouting, he gives Van Zan almost as much conviction as Bale gives Quinn.  Ladies are in short supply in this story there's Alex (Izabella Scorupco) as Van Zan's helicopter pilot who winds up with Quinn, and for five minutes there's Alice Krige as young Quinn's mum.  But since this movie's ideal audience might surely be young teenage boys, that's probably enough. Other things are lacking too, such as more variety in the dragons, more recognizable details of the wrecked London of the final scenes, some more colorful characters among Quinn's community, as in post-apocalyptic classics like `Mad Max.'  But to say that is to miss the point, which is that this is a fast, exhilarating ride that's a feast for the eyes.  If you want to view all this as a `B' horror picture, fine just grant that it's a first-class version.  To be seen, by all means, on a big screen, preferably in a big, old-time movie house. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining, Interesting Movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"52 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The previews for this movie did not really interest or impress me at all.  In fact, I went to this movie only half-interested with a friend who claimed that it would be a good movie.  The PG rating worried me, and I was afraid it would be another poorly done movie.  I mean, dragons in the future??However, the previews didn't really say anything about the great acting, touching scenes, and great overall story and concept.  What a surprise this movie was!  Matthew McConnaughy does a great job, and I could only really half-believe it was him through the whole movie!  He plays such an interesting character ... and then the highly rated Christian Bale lives up to his previous acting job... a brilliant performance on his part.I really was impressed with this movie.  It's a wonderful post-apocalyptic movie that explains the demise of the dinosaurs, and brings a whole new element to the evolution and recycling of life on planet Earth.  Everything in this movie was great, and sci-fi fantasy fans, you MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!!A few complaints though, no nothing too bad really.. just nitpicky 1) a poor directing decision on filming parts of the dragon's eyesight perspective; this kind of technique is shabby, but luckily, it was for only 2 quick shots. 2) They should have explained how the tanks and helicopters get their fuel. 3) The end line was a little silly, something to do with evolution?  Huh? 4) Where did all the female dragons go at the end?  They just seem to dissapear... maybe an extra 2 minute scene there could have helped to explain the final demise of the dragons.Overall, this movie is a winner!  I'd rate it a solid 8/10 or so!  See it!  Finally, a post-apocalypse movie that is original, believeable, and doesn't have Kevin Costner in it!!! "},{"Title":"The dragons are spectacular.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a must see movie for its special effects and computer graphic dragons.  The plot is wacky because of the theory the dinosaurs were killed by dragons.  The actors are perfect for their roles and did a fine job. In London, an underground tunnel digging operation hits a cave containing the long dormant dragons.  This causes the dragons to awake and spread all over the world.  They burn everything in their path.  The Earth is broiled and the dragons formed a dictatorship.  All surviving organisms hide. Quinn is the leader of a small hiding community.  His leadership comes to question when Americans show at their door.  Big, grizzly Van Zan tells his story of being a dragonslayer, and Quinn lets them stay.  Van Zan has a theory that there is only one male and it is living in London.  He wants an army to help him kill the male and save the world. The computer graphics and special effects are awesome.  Some movies have big dragons and little wings that somehow make it fly, but Reign of Fire's dragons have huge wingspan.  The dragons look spectacular.  Van Zan's leap into the dragon is the most exciting part of the movie. I think the director is combining fantasy and future to make the audience think that anything is possible.  Bizarre things are going to happen in the future, but I do not think dragons are going to take over the world. "},{"Title":"Takes a while to warm up (ahem!) but gets better","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"41 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In 2002, London.  A group of workers on a new tube tunnel unleash a dragon from it's slumber.  The end result is the destruction of much of the world and massive loss of life.  Twenty years later humans live in small communities trying to survive the best they can as they hope the dragons will eventually starve without human cities to feast on.  Quinn leads one such group until a group of US ex-soldiers turn up, led by Van Zan, who have more of a mind to fight back.To enjoy this film you need to get over two big obstacles.  First of all the poster &#150; it's not for this film, it's for the prequel which I hope they plan to make.  The poster shows dragons over a burning London and lots of helicopters all over the place.  Basically it's a summer FX movie.  However the film itself jumps this destruction and goes straight to the future, only telling us what happened through cheap footage etc.  This is a big step as it's a real downer to not be allowed to see what happens when the dragon is freed &#150; when we had the `2020' caption I was like `what the&#133;..'.  However this can be got over as the second half of the film is very good and has some good effects and good action (even if it never delivers on the poster).The second obstacle is that it's silly and doesn't make sense.  Once you accept that it's full of holes then you can sit back and enjoy it more.  If you watch it and complain about plot holes then you're missing the point.  For example &#150; how come the dragons don't come and attack this fortress regularly, where does all this fuel keep coming from etc etc.  But then again lets not forget that dragons aren't real either!Like I said, the plot takes a while to get going.  It's hard to watch Quinn's group in a damp castle when you know you SHOULD be seeing dragons rip into the world's cities.  However when Van Zan turns up it gets a lot better and the action is good.  The actual climax is also logically very weak but is very exciting and has a real nice touch plot wise.Bale is good and is not as muscley as the Americans.  He actually turned up having not worked out because he assumed that the characters would all be malnourished.  But when he saw McConaughey he decided to bulk up a bit.  McConaughey is really good as the pumped American.  He is a bit OTT but really that's what this sort of film needs.  Support is pretty bland which leaves the dragons.  Sadly the dragons themselves are pretty empty bad guys.  Because we never see them destroy the world their power is never feared.  In later scenes this is done better but they are never more than big monsters (whereas Jurassic Park's monsters had character and threat).Overall it took time to get going and it never lives up to the marketing hype but it's still enjoyable.  Once you get past the two obstacles then you're free to enjoy the second half of the film and a really enjoyable climax. "}{"Title":"not exactly sizzling","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"46 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  `Reign of Fire' is a no-more-than-passable sci-fi monster movie, strong on production values and special effects and weak on just about everything else.  Once again we have the typical gray-and-khaki hued post-apocalyptic world filled with burnt out cities, roaming bands of grimy-faced survivors, and enough soot, dirt and rust to make the audience feel the need for a shower once they get out of the theatre (in other words, the `Mad Max' look).The apocalypse in this case comes in the form of a race of fire-breathing dragons that are awakened from their millennia-long state of dormancy thanks to a deep-drilling construction project in downtown London.  We are told that these ash-eating dragons hibernate for eons at a time waiting for the earth to replenish itself before embarking on another mission of total bio-global destruction.  This is, in fact, the explanation for the demise of the dinosaurs, though, if this were indeed the case, one might question just how this species managed to so completely avoid leaving any evidence of its existence in the fossil record.  In this kind of movie, it is probably best not to ask questions of this sort and to just go along with the sheer inanity of it all.The first specimen to be unleashed is discovered by a young London lad named Quinn Abercrombie who, 18 years later, has grown up to be the hunky Christian Bale, leader of a group of survivors holed up in a kind of mountainside fortress with very little hope for a future.  That is, of course, until one fateful day when `Dragon Slayer' Denton Van Dan (Matthew McConaughey) makes his sooty-faced appearance.  From then on it becomes a battle of the minds and muscles between these two strong-willed individuals who have decidedly different ideas about how best to ensure the survival of the human race.Movies like `Reign of Fire' pretty much preclude any real critical analysis.   Suffice it to say that the special effects and art direction are quite impressive throughout, the dialogue bland and purely functional, and the performances adequate to the admittedly rather unchallenging task.  And the characters are at least allowed to show their human side at times, displaying various amounts of fear, uncertainty and emotional vulnerability even at those moments when they are having to be at their most daring and heroic.   There is one truly inspired scene in which two of the adults beguile the children by acting out the Luke Skywalker/Darth Vader `I am your father' confrontation scene from `The Empire Strikes Back.'  More clever moments like that would have helped make `Reign of Fire' a more distinctive film than it currently is. Oh well, if nothing else, the theatre-shaking soundtrack is enough to keep you awake, if not exactly interested, at all times.   But cranking up the volume is often the first indication that a movie has very little else to offer.       "},{"Title":"A very underrated film that deserves to be seen","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Caught this on DVD recently and was happily surprised. It's a 'post-apocalypse' story where mankind is reduced to living an almost stone-age existence by a global disaster, but this time the apocalypse is brought about not by nuclear weapons but a race of dragons unleashed from the depths of the earth by over-ambitious mining!  OK, it's a pretty silly concept, but the whole thing is handled with panache. Director Rob (X-Files) Bowman is obviously at home with this kind of subject matter and the visuals are excellent thanks to cinematographer Adrian Biddel, a dab hand at photographing the impossible thanks to his work on the two Mummy films and The World Is Not Enough. Critics here in the UK panned it when it came out, saying that it needed more special effects, but they completely missed out on the charm of the film, which was in the ingenious ways that it showed the human race had been changed by the onset of the dragons.  I loved the scene where Quinn and his sidekick, having to entertain a castle full of children without the benefit of TV or video games, enact a scene from Star Wars, providing both dialogue and narration as they go.Don't listen to the critics, this is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"There are real live dragons to watch out for.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film will have you believing in dragons. You'll wish there were no such creatures. These dragons have no fairly tale quality about them. They are big and nasty. They have risen up and have all but destroyed the earth. The few surviving groups of people are merely trying to survive this new reign of fire.The acting by the lead cast is excellent. The story line is pretty intricate for a special effects type film. Most of the film takes place in Scotland, and this helps create the cold, dark, damp atmosphere.Reign of Fire is a very ambitious film. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire Reigns","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was very well done.  I had heard a lot of negative hype before I saw it but I was impressed.  This film tells a great story about the human race becoming refugees and fighting the force that dominated them.  The characters were played very well, they were hard people living in hard times.  The children added perspective and even hope that humans could outlast the beasts.  The visual effects are stunning, from the dragons to the wasteland the film has a dark beauty.  The plot is survival of the fittest, and only one species will survive. "},{"Title":"Absolutely loved it!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that even if I was not a huge fan of both leading men in this film, I would have loved it.  It was entirely impossible to turn the movie off. It started off as a great concept and just got better with the characters' humor and realism.  I am currently recommending it to all my friends and family (already a favorite of my mom, brother, niece, and nephew) Thoroughly enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Better than You'd Expect","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Because of the B movie storyline--helicopters and tanks vs. dragons--many people will dismiss this movie out of hand. Special effects-laden drivel, they'll say. They miss the fact that this movie is actually very well crafted. It's a decent script, with some good lines and clever little additions like Quinn's serial play based on Star Wars to entertain the children before bed.The acting is well above average all around; Christian Bale and Gerard Butler are particular stand-outs. The story is more emotional than you'd expect, which makes the action sequences more gripping. The fist fight between Quinn and Van Zan is particularly brutal and engaging. The cinematography is quite good, but that's what you'd expect when you're filling the screen with dragons. And of course the special effects are incredible. The dragons are much better than Dragonheart or Harry Potter.The music is well integrated--nothing over-the-top or grandiose, like Lord of the Rings, for example. It sets the tone well without being overbearing.All in all, it's a well crafted movie, a labor of love by director Rob Bowman. While the plot isn't for everyone, the emotional impact and superior acting help Reign of Fire stand out among action and sci fi films. "},{"Title":"Here There Be a Silly Movie (possible spoilers, I guess)","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Q  What's the difference between a fire-breathing dragon and a mid-summer movie?A  One is a lumbering monster with a tiny brain that rains death and destruction, and the other is just a big lizard.Reign of Fire is basically Waterworld with gasoline, with all that that entails.  The story begins in London in 2008, when a tunnel crew unearths a massive underground chamber containing a dragon who, like most of us, is a little cranky first thing in the morning.  The dragon, oddly, sleeps through the breaching of its den with a massive roaring drilling machine, and only wakes up when it is nudged.  All of a sudden dragons are greeting the dawn all over the world and torching things with more reckless abandon than the U.S. Forest Service.  The world is shortly destroyed, as we learn in a drawn-out opening sequence involving an unseen narrator writing in a journal, though he doesn't seem to be writing what he's saying.  Most of the story takes place in 2020, where a society of refugees led by Quinn (Christian Bale) lives in a decrepit English castle, hiding from the dragons.Things can only get so bad in Europe, of course, before the Americans show up, and show up they do, in an armored column of the Kentucky Irregulars, led by tattooed, bald nut case Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey).  He has a crazy idea that entails killing the boss dragon, since it is the only male dragon of the millions around the globe (must be a busy fella).It's critical in post-apocalypse movies to establish a credible and vivid world, with a balance of the modern and the primitive, and a sense of how societal priorities have changed to suit the new reality.  The classic case was the jury-rigged ingenuity of the Mad Max movies, where V8 engines were prized and gasoline more precious than life.  They weren't necessarily realistic, but they were believable, because they established a set of rules and stuck by them.  Reign of Fire is all out of whack in this department the castle-dwellers are on the brink of starvation, but seem to have a limitless supply of electricity, without even a cursory explanation of where it comes from.  As part of their security net, they use massive searchlights to monitor the night skies.  Uh, way to keep a low profile, guys.  Van Zan's people, on the other hand, apparently have an endless supply of fuel, enough to maintain a gas-guzzling tank and a helicopter(!) with again, no hint of how.  Not to mention the fact that the world was supposedly nuked to get rid of the dragons, yet the word radiation never so much as passes anyone's lips.  Plus, the movie can't even keep track of its own timeline.All this could have been forgiven if we got some gut-wrenching army n' dragon smackdowns.  Van Zan is supposed to be a fearsome dragon killer, so you would figure that he and his militia would have some savvy anti-dragon tactics figured out, from the painful lessons learned by the doomed struggle of the world's armies, but no.  When they take on a dragon in the castle environs, their plan of attack is so suicidally ludicrous it would take a minor miracle to work just once.  Without going into too much detail, it involves ground-based radar monitors, a high-tech computer tracking system, and skydivers, all to try and bring the beast to earth so McConaughey can kill it with an axe.  Seriously.The movie has its good points, though it is capably directed by TV veteran Rob Bowman, who at least manages to imbue the ridiculous proceedings with some sort of dramatic tension.  The climactic battle is pretty impressive, and there is an awesome scene of the dragon hovering over the militia while lines of tracers whip through the night sky and the smoke roils under his wings.  Wolf Kroeger's production design isn't bad, the landscape is suitably scorched and desperate, though it looks like they might have swiped some sets from Enemy at the Gates.  The dragons themselves, of course, are amazing.  They are truly mean hombres of fluid reptilian grace, whose jaws leak flaming liquid as they breathe.  They (almost) convince you that they really could have destroyed the world, that they wouldn't have been swatted from the sky in two seconds by any F-18 pilot with half a brain and a rack of heat-seekers.  But then you expect great effects from even the most dim-witted of movies these days.Like most monster movies, Reign of Fire suffers badly when the monsters are offscreen catching a smoke break, and we are left with flat characters speaking silly dialogue in a tepid story.  Bale is all right, though his character comes off as something of a weenie.  McConaughey, meanwhile, has no chemistry with anyone or anything on screen.  He's a buffed-out paramilitary psycho, but not an interesting one.  You can't figure out how he became the leader (maybe he was the only one who could drive a tank). The most engaging character is Alex, the helicopter pilot, played by Izabella Scorupco (the luminous computer expert in GoldenEye), who isn't given much attention by the script, but who seems like she would have been a better choice to lead the militia.  Too bad she wasn't the main character.But the humans aren't the real stars anyway.  I sort of picture a dragon, guzzling an Evian bottle of lighter fluid, and barking into his cell phoneI'm telling you, Marty, I've had it!  C'mon, I can fly!  I can breathe fire!  That idiot T-Rex gets a three-picture deal with Spielberg, and what do I get?  First Dungeons & Dragons and now THIS!  Whaddaya doing to me? Get me a meeting with Katzenberg, or I torch Burbank.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable all around","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I did a blind buy on a Japanese import HD-DVD of this movie for the sole reason Christian Bale was in it. As with every movie I have seen him in, his acting is impeccable. His knack for accents is amazing, and even though he speaks in what I'm assuming is his original English accent, its a trip to see him sound different in every movie with none of the embarrassing attributes that Leonardo DiCaprio brings. Matthew McConaughey was honestly a big surprise, pulling off the role of a bad ass very well. I actually didn't even realize it was him until I saw the cast listing here on IMDb and went back to check because I couldn't believe it.Overall this is an excellent film to watch with friends who are fans of any genre. Its dark enough to please people looking for a more frightening film, but light enough to not turn off anyone else. It has action, but no 1 vs 50 gunfights or unrealistic chases and stunts. Sure the film could have been better with a bit more refinement, but I don't think anyone would regret at least watching it once. "},{"Title":"Saw this and Road.  Gotta pick this one.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie would be a real stinker.  But it's hot outside, so I thought i'd sit in the dark air conditioned theatre and watch all the fire.  Man was it fun! A million times better than I thought it would be.  It was scary, it was intense, it was touching, and it gave one of the funniest nods to our culture i've ever seen.  A long time ago wars seperated men and ruined cities.  They grabbed the bible as a link to each other, and to their past, with it's legend, and lore and dogma.  Of course in our day and age, the survivors would probably worship harry potter instead of jesus.  Sorry for rambling, but i thought they're cultural religion and storytelling was great.Matthew McConaughey, wow.  This is the first time i've seen him as ugly, ruthless, hateful bitter character.  And i still wanted to see him.  I sort of just thought of him as a pretty face, but even uglied up he still has a great deal of presence on the screen.  Christian Bale never really fails to delight me.  From All The Little Animals to American Psycho, super sweet to super nasty, he never lets me down.  I'm a little worried about the two here though, they looked like they had been pumped full of steroids.  I had no idea, it was like a pec war between them.  I loved the Dragons.  That is what impressed me the most.  Now at times, it was a little iffy, but much better than SpiderMan, or Jurassic park.  I was scared by these Dragons.  It didn't look like a movie with cartoons filling in the holes.  There is one seen where Quinn comes back to camp on a horse and is surrounded by a whirling sea of glowing embers.That scene is worth the price of admission. A very good movie.  I went with a group of six people.  And we all agreed, (which we never do).  It had suprised us at how good the film was.  Now it won't win any oscars, but if you want to be entertained, run to the cinema.  The line for Perdition will be long. But skip it.  It's boring and way too long and like a million movies you've already seen.  If you wanna feel for Perdition, if you wanna get a peek at hell, see Reign of Fire! "},{"Title":"Very Original!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the film was perfect. It completely did the job it set out to do to make an original film out of an old concept. Being a special effects person, I went purely for that and I was not disappointed. Flawless special effects. FLAWLESS. I have not been this satisfied with a movie (effects-wise) since Dragonheart. Two enthusiastic thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Reign of Fire was a great!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Reign of Fire was a great movie. Christian Bale gave an outstanding performance. It had me literally on the edge of my seat. I especially liked the no sex, very little romance part. (the only sexual content is hand holding and one couple in bed fully clothed sleeping) I was surprised at the ending, and at many parts jumped out of my skin! It was a riveting adventure that kept me on the edge of my seat. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"What a night","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this movie at the Hollywood premiere in Westwood, LA. I am surprised to see so many negative comments about it here, as to me it was an absolute gem. The acting was good, suspense was kept high by not having too many dragons all the time and it just becoming a shoot-em-up, and the special effects were awesome - the scene at the end of the movie where Christian Bale is lifted off the ground by impact (I won't spoil it for anyone by saying why) was just fantastic and worth the admission money alone! Apart from the movie it was fun star-spotting, seeing David Duchovny and the other guy off the X-Files/Terminator 2 (can never remember his name), David Arquette and Christian and other members of the cast. I think Christian Bale is a much under-rated actor - his performance in American Psycho was an absolute tour de force and here he is again with another solid performance. I hope the movie does really well, it deserves to. "},{"Title":"An Uneasy Mix Of Two Genres","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watching REIGN OF FIRE I was left with the impression that the script was originally written as a bleak post apocalyptic drama in the tradition of John Wyndham and John Christopher , where a Hollywood studio decided the script wasn't marketable enough so a studio executive decided to introduce dragons into the screenplay as a commercial gimmick Where REIGN OF FIRE works best is in its survivalist themes . Quinn leads a band of survivors and when they hear  Edinburgh is gone  they react if it's the worst news in the world . You can believe these guys are starving to death , that all hope is gone and when they see Denton's American militia arrive you know that the undercurrents of tribalism and rivalry are going to surface . Unlike 28 DAYS LATER this movie almost works as post apocalyptic thriller These Shattered Earth  ideas are very convincing but as soon as the dragons are introduced the illusion falls apart because for a film marketed as featuring fire breathing dragons ( You have seen the posters right ? ) they seem to be there as an after thought and are totally underdeveloped in the script . There's no real explanation as to how or why the dragons were hibernating in the London underground and the whole concept doesn't bare up to any close scrutiny . Why weren't nuclear weapons effective against them when a dragon can be killed with a road pick ? Very little thought indeed seems to have gone into this aspect of the script and needless to say the ending is a cop out Note to Hollywood executives - If you're going to finance a film that features a desperate band of survivors can you cut out gimmicks like zombies and dragons please ? Thank you "},{"Title":"It's not a masterpiece but its a lot of fun","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Did you ever wonder what a futuristic dragon movie would be like? No? Well that's OK because Reign of Fire has it covered. It's set in the year 2020 and the world has been overrun by dragons. The world has been thrown into a post-apocalyptic setting and all the humans have to hide out in the mountains, never going near the cities because of the swarm of dragons that populate those areas. The film centers on a group of refugees led by Quinn (Christian Bale). The refugees live quiet lives in their mountain homes always on the watch for dragons. Things are stirred up, however, when an American group of marauders led by Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey). Van Zan quarrel quite a bit before they realize that only one species is going to survive this apocalypse so they'll have to band together if they want to survive. For what it's worth this is really a pretty damn fun movie.It's always fun to watch some new concept unfold well on screen. This film has a great feel to it and the whole idea of post-apocalyptic meets medieval creatures is great. An entire mythos is built around the dragons and their origins. There are numerous creative elements constructed here, such as a little proverb the children say to themselves every night before they go to bed. It tells them to always keep one eye on the sky and that if they see the monsters they must dig and dig and never look back. We also see a lot of neat military weaponry used to fight the dragons. One really cool example are the Archangels, soldiers who drop from helicopters and capture the dragons in nets, dragging them to the ground. For what it's worth there is some pretty innovative stuff going on in this film.Now I could sit here and nitpick and complain about all the little flaws of this film, but its just not worth it to slam this film because of certain little things. Sure it has some cheesy lines, sure it has its silly moments, sure it some useless scenes, but no one ever said this film was a masterpiece. This isn't Scorsese, this isn't Kubrick, this isn't Tarantino. This is just pure fun with some post apocalyptic dragons thrown in. It's not one of those films you pick apart for every little detail its worth. You simply take it as it is and enjoy it for what it is. And honestly, for a fun little action flick this film does a great job at keeping my attention and entertaining me just enough for that hour and a half.Reign of Fire is plenty entertaining for what its worth. It's not groundbreaking piece of cinema but it serves its purpose and offers something new and original. The film is aesthetically great and conceptually awesome. It is executed very well, despite some flaws. This is in no way a bad film, and its well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Dragons, fire and action...an explosive recipe!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I watched the movie I thought of the director like a cloaked man with a magic wand makings fires explode all through the film and making his cast run like crazy for their lives! I really liked the film even though I thought it would be just another dragon story. Nothing could be more than the truth. It is a clever, refreshing, new point of view of the human fear of dragons. A constant futuristic, dark feeling, struggle of the heroes for survival, while at the same time the viewer gets this suspicion that each hero hides a dragon inside, fighting his/her own demons. All thumbs up for all the actors in the film and a pat in the back for the director (he also directed the X-Files). Watch the movie and enjoy the action...looking over your shoulder to check out if there is a dragon flying right at you! "},{"Title":"Stupid film, big monsters..what more do you want?","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, so this film had more flaws in its plot than my belief was willing to be suspended by. I come from Northumberland and the idea of it being burnt to a crisp by big scary dragons was a dream come true (you'd understand if you'd lived there. This bring's me to the only flaw I will mention as the rest have been mentioned already, Northumberland is at least 350 miles from London..it is the most Northern part of England, how did they drive there in tanks in what seemed like a couple of hours?'Spoilers'Anyway, The scene where the first dragon lands in front of the trucks and keeps blasting them with flames is excellent. I understand the complaints of not enough dragon action, but they are superbly animated..even if the big male keeps changing size. Another good point is that I cringed as American troops turned up to save the world because the rest of us are so useless, 'Oh no, not again' I thought, but was then pleasantly surprised as I watched them being turned to ash in a matter of seconds...cool!So really this film is unmitigated crap, but to be fair you have to judge it in the context of its genre where the only good bits you watch over again are the monsters wreaking havoc while the rest is superfluous...So I'd give it 8\10!  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought the movie was excellent.  It was a little slow in the beginning, and the end was a little bit predictable, but other than that I thought it was very good and the dragons looked awesome.  I really enjoyed how they had the movie through the dragon's eyes at some points in the movie.  Very cool stuff. ) "},{"Title":"Much Better than it sounds...","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The plot sounded iffy..the previews didn't do it justice.  But actually seeing this, might just change your mind about action adventures.  This is a surprisingly good yarn about a dragon coming out of hibernation and beginning an apocalypse on the earth by spawning millions of its own kind.  While a few moments are cliche, much of it is interesting (with relatively plausible scientific explanations such as dragons being the actual reason for the extinction of the dinosaurs).  The special effects are top notch and Christian Bale gives a strong performance as the reluctant hero (the undercurrent theme of Good Guy vs. Good Guy is also fascinating).  Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was excellently done. Critics said that the dialogue was corny but I really had no problem with it.The dragons were crafted beautifully, the way they each had their own style and craft showed us that the makers of this movie spent time on each and everyone of the dragons to give the audience that small bit enjoyment.The plot of this movie was believable, compared to most post- apocalyptic movies. It did had very hard competition on it's release date. But third place is pretty good. At least it wasn't a bomb.All in all. Reign of Fire is a must see. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but it's definitely worth keeping around.","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Perhaps it's just my childish weak spot for fire-breathing dragons, but this movie still strikes a chord with me. Granted, I'm not at all a fan of Matthew McConaughey, but the movie does its job being truly exciting and gritty.I can understand some of the negative critiques and I've spotted a few things, myself. Most of them had to do with the fact that the story felt like it was missing a few parts. A perfect example is when Jared and Quinn (Bale) had a small argument after Quinn got into a fight with Van Zan (McConaughey). It felt like the conflict between the two suddenly came out of nowhere without being built up to anywhere in the story and it seemed to end without any real tension. In fact, the Jared character himself didn't really seem like he actually contributed to the story so the entire scene didn't really seem necessary.Another thing that bugged me a little is that Christian Bale often spoke his lines extremely fast. It was almost as if he wanted to speed through his lines as quickly as possible. And granted, there is a lot of peril so it makes sense he'd want to keep things quick, but it can sometimes get a little annoying.There were still a lot of good things about the movie, though. In my case, I've grown so tired of seeing dragons in movies where they were just small parts of stories like ploys in a giant strategy game. This time, though, they were free-willed predatory animals. That idea excited me. It also excited me that they kept the actual fairytale fantasy to a minimum. In fact, it didn't seem to exist at all. These weren't magical creatures. They were flesh and blood animals and the rules of real life mortality applied. And for me, that makes the entire thing much more plausible- save for maybe the one male dragon idea which seemed to be too close to the alien queen concept from Aliens (1986).The dragon designs were also top notch. To this day, they still remain my favorite designs for any dragons I've seen anywhere in any other movie, game or artwork. The idea of adapting them to a bat-like design- allowing them to retain four limbs- was genius and much more realistic than featuring reptiles with six limbs- the four legs and two wings. The fiery breath was also made very realistic with the idea of chemicals as opposed to something like the fire-lung mentioned in Dragonheart 2 A New Beginning (2000). And for once, the dragons' wings were at a size that could justify lifting such massive animals. In short, I believed these designs.Is this a perfect film? Absolutely not. The editing and screenplay sometimes seem rather sloppy and underdeveloped. But as far as dragon movies go, it's unique, much more realistic and extremely exciting. It's also fast-paced enough that it doesn't over-stay its welcome. It's a real monster movie. It's not perfect, but it's definitely worth keeping around. "}{"Title":"I lead&#x85;.You follow.","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire is directed by Rob Bowman and collectively written by Gregg Chabot, Kevin Peterka and Matt Greenberg. It stars Christian Bale, Matthew McConaughey, Izabella Scorupco and Gerard Butler. Cinematography is by Adrian Biddle. Story is set in Apocalyptic England 2020, and fire breathing dragons rule the skies as mankind threatens to become extinct. But in the North a small community of humans, led by Quinn (Bale), do their best to survive. Into their lives comes Dragon Slayer Denton Van Zan (McConaughey) and his small band of American soldiers, it upsets the equilibrium of the community, but if they can pull together? Then maybe there is hope for mankind to once again thrive&#x85;.It's one of those films that has a reputation, or internet rating, that's difficult to pin down as to how true to form they are. Reign of Fire without a doubt has a premise that's actually better than the film ultimately is. There is scope there for a big budgeted sequel/prequel or certainly for another big summer popcorn blockbuster where dragons rule the Earth. Bowman's film, I believe, was let down badly by the publicity junket that accompanied it. The trailers promised untold delights of dragons fighting mankind, duelling with helicopters and laying siege to man at his most vulnerable. The posters suggested a sky lit up by fire as London comes under attack by a number of winged beasties, the artwork stunning in its presentation. Sadly, as those who have seen the film can attest, neither promise is met, thus expectation levels were never going to be met. So is the low internet rating, and indifferent critical opinions, calling it on its own terms? Entering with a low expectation does help one to enjoy the film more on a first viewing, definitely, but a repeat viewing also improves the film no end on account of just enjoying the look, feel and characterisations at work. Yes we are still hungry for more dragon attacks, in fact just one sequence of an army of dragons attacking would have been nice, but this is still a gritty little fantasy working well within its budgetary restrictions. The lead players are good value, Bale is grizzled and buffed, putting some quality emotional pathos into Quinn in the process, while McConaughey is on full tilt overdrive excess as the battle hardened Van Zan. You can call it ham or cheese if you like, but McConaughey is having a good time, and the film, and its delicious premise, calls for such a fun and blunderbuss character. While Scorupco and Butler hold their respective ends up well enough. There's a lack of depth in the community characters, so a problem there as it renders the film practically a three pronged piece, while as bizarre as it may sound, the dragons too have no background for us to be involved with as they go about their search for human food. What action is here, and there's enough to appease the average thrill seeker, is well put together by Bowman (X-Files film and series). Again it helps to realise the budget afforded the film severely restricts the options, but he does well in the singular dragon/man confrontations, with a great finale between our heroes and old daddy dragon well worth the price of a rental. While one extended sequence involving Ark Angel soldiers free-falling from the sky is an adrenalin fuelled crowd pleaser. The look, too, is good value, where Adrian Biddle washes out the colours from the photography to create the classic apocalyptic look; where this of course then benefits the shots of the dragon's fire breath, scorching the screen to dazzle the eyes. Clearly it could have been better, but it still comes out far better than many other bigger budgeted action/fantasy movies. Set expectation level at medium, or give the film another chance, and you may find it gets in and does a good job of entertaining you for just over an hour and half. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining..Wow","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Wow! I watched this on a fluke. Wasn't expecting much at all. I remember the trailer. A Demented looking Matthew McConaughey lunging off of a tower. Dragons? The future? Aren't Dragons from Medieval times? Kinights and whatnot?The story works though. It ties together well. Enough elements and character motives to keep u interested. That along with great FX and camera work, make for a better than average Sci Fi / Post Apocalyptic Survival tale. The Dragons ate the best I've ever seen in a movie. They got em right. Bale and Matt C are both really good in this. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. people keep saying that the scenery was dreary. well what do you expect after the world is taken over by fire breathing dragons? did you want lush green forests? everything was great in this movie, i think. the dragons looked good and the scenery was perfect. Christian Bale is one of my favorite actors too so that helped. I like sci-fi movies so this was good. the plot was good and the acting was good. basically what I'm getting at is this is a good movie. i would recommend this to anyone who likes dragons or sci-fi movies. For some reason though I still don't have this movie on DVD so i guess i need to get around to that. "},{"Title":"Good acting all round, but weak ending","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" (contains plot for the last fifteen minutes of the movie) With a good performances from everyone and quality CGi (finally, some half-realistic fire!) Reign of Fire is a really good film...for the first 3/4s at least. Van Zan, Quinn and Alex charge bravely into London to kill the male dragon, and after an impressive fight scene walk out of London; despite the fact that although they killed the male, there are still a few hundred hungry females lurking around. Not only that, but they give it the Hollywood Fairytale Ending. Quinn gets the girl and one of the last shots of the film is them looking lovingly into each others eyes. Another point of issue is the fact that the best two characters (and best performances) are killed off. All that said, 90% of the film is totally enjoyable and definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Watchable but not hugely memorable","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Firstly I'll say that I enjoyed the film and it kept my interest to the very end but ultimately it was clichd and unoriginal in most respects.The characters and settings will be fairly familiar to anybody who has ever watched an apocalyptic movie such as Mad Max, The Postman etc... Like the brooding hero partly responsible for setting the whole thing off, his wise cracking second in command, the driven lost soul but good hearted American etc.. etc..., Nothing new.The dialogue was slow, not very snappy and I was constantly hoping for things to errr catch fire, but they never did.A saving feature was the special effects. Seeing the dragon in its full glory at the end will no doubt have terrified many children and the odd adult and it was excellent. But the weak and obvious plot and dialogue did not save the movie, or make it worth a second view. "},{"Title":"A tremendous film!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Guys, there has to be a point where we enjoy movies for what they are. Any film has to consolidate and pick and choose which details to include or cut, not to mention tell a clear story that keeps moving to a reconciliation without confusing the various age levels of its viewers. Look at how X-Men and Spiderman consolidated 40 years worth of information into one script as if all aspects of their story lines happened simultaneously. Yet, this MUST be done because movies are not about details. Documentary's are about details. Movies are about STORY, PLOT, CHARACTER. Like a play. Like going to see Oedipus 2000 years ago or King Lear a few hundred years ago.Reign of Fire was a masterstroke by Rob Bowman using all his X-files built experience to keep us enthralled. McCaughnehy (however you spell that) and Bale gave us awesome and inspired characters. Scorupco was to die for in this film. Sigh. Anyway, I loved the grey burnt out landscape and the 96 minutes of tension that led to a satisfying ending. Yes, this was focused on a pocket of humanity but it is a tale that is neatly placed amongst the heroes who brought about the downfall of the Dragons' Reign on earth. If this story had really happened there would be thousands (millions) of tales that could be told about heroism, cowardice, desperation, etc. The film has to focus on one pocket of humanity to bring us along and make us a care about a handful of characters keeping plot points simple and dramatic. The effects were impressive and just enough to make a simple film feel like a blockbuster. All in all, action movies don't get much better and we were treated to CHARACTER as well. We really can't ask for much more. Except maybe more Izabel Scorupco. Sigh. "},{"Title":"True modern saga tanks against dragons!","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The true modern saga with all the compulsory attributes heroes, dragons, castles ... and helicopters, tanks and machine guns. Indeed, only one helicopter but still such a story could be probably written by Strugatski brothers. Reminds It's Hard to Be a God in some aspect. Survival of a man in bizarre dangers is their favourite idea as well as of this movie.Made by Rob Bowman, one of the makers of X-Files, who did an amazing job on combining medieval saga elements with something of a modern Rambo-like war movie. If you'd take stills from different parts of the film you'd hardly believe it's one and the same movie. The plot has some similarity to Waterworld but it's darker and much more serious. Strong characters, strong atmosphere and the great play. Plus excellent special effects, though there are not too much of them.Except several scenes Reign of Fire shot in the blue-red manner associated with water and fire -- the basic components of the story. The photography is not outstanding but still very good, especially in the scenes of dragon's attacks. The direction is rather smooth, no abnormal speed-ups and slow-downs of the action, but the end still not really convincing. Of course there is a lot of little imperfections in the plot but they are forgivable for the whole originality of the film. Also it could be less harsh but indeed which sagas are mild? Reign of Fire looks medieval despite of the tanks and the helicopter. It's also very good that the movie is international, not US-centered nor UK-centered and not binded to the modern way of life of any country at all.Modern fantasy in its purest form. Unique. 9 of 10 because of too strong war atmosphere. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, I loved this movie. I found it was refreshingly different from the normal Hollywood offerings. It did have action and special effects - albeit not in the quantities that other reviewers wanted to see. But the movie wasn't *about* the action or special effects - it had more human drama in it than that. The storyline was also not too 'dumbed down' - but showed intelligence. Of course the story is far fetched - but it was still dealt with in an intelligent manner.I particularly liked the tension and distrust between the UK and US characters, and the way the film was written from a more British viewpoint. So what could have been done better? I thought the journey to London was a bit short - a good place to add another battle-scene perhaps? And maybe a little more set-up to show how the castle in Northumberland was run (although that might have made that part of the film a little too long)Anyway. An excellent film. Maybe I'll buy a copy... "},{"Title":"A glimpse of the culture of Peace","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very good fantasy film, with outstanding special effects and good performances by Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey, as opposite forces. Ferocious dragons have overtaken the Earth; people live in lonely communities without contact with other survivors. In Ireland, hidden in a castle and under the direction of a serene young man (Bale), a group of adults and children lead a low-profile life to avoid the attention and hunger of dragons. In this barren and bleak landscape, a group of US Marines &#150;lead by a tattooed brute (McConaughey) with an appetite for killing dragons, only comparable to the monsters' fierceness- arrive and alter the established order to Bale's consternation. The struggle between the common sense of the peaceful Irish leader and the aggressiveness of the American neo-Fascist occupies much of the length of the film, but it does not eclipse the action sequences, done masterfully by director Rob Bowman, the cast, stuntmen, technicians and the team of special effects wizards. Reign of Fire is a most telling film in these days, when the world's claim for peace is ignored by the ruthlessness of many American men in positions of power. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I rent a DVD or go see a movie, I check out the details at imdb.com. Reign of Fire was one of those DVD's that I had avoided, because of all the poor comments from this website.  Now I know why they are so few paid reviewers in this world.Reign of Fire illustrates a post apocalyptic world after dormant dragons are awakened in London during subway construction.  I thought this movie paced itself along rather well between action and storyline.  The movie doesn't break any new ground in cinema, but it is entertaining.  The special effects are fine and the acting does it's job all combined with a decent plot. Why so many people trashed this movie, I'll never know.  Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey  do pretty good job of keeping the story moving.  The only somewhat negative for me about the film is I wish the ending could have been a little less trite.  This flick is worth the price of the rental fee. I give it 7/10. "}{"Title":"You watch a different movie?","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am stunned buy the negative comment on here, this was a decent movie, to be sure, not the stunning amazing movie I wanted it to be, but surely not the horrible mess people are saying it is. Sounds like they would prefer watching The Sound of Music 100 times in a row than watch this film one more time... The acting was well done, IMO, McConaughey put in a great show, if a stereotypical one, for the rough American. Bale I thought was excellent as the reluctant thoughtful leader. As for the special effects, I thought them superb, enough that watching it on DVD has me going back to check out the effects again.As for technical issues like the parachuters not having altimeters, or why dragons ate ash but still ate people, or showing the world getting destroyed, etc. I will pull out the old it's a movie, dork line. Frankly seeing 30 minutes of endless combat as humans get fried by dragons would probably ruined the movie. I don't believe we ever see a dragon EAT a person in the film, they might bite them, but we never see them dropping down and chomping the people. The reason I am thinking for this is because the dragons know they are a threat, take out the threat and then later fry them to ash and eat them. Also, not once did they say that dragons could only eat ash, it simply said they like the ash. The people in the film never fully understand the dragon physiology, I don't know my moviegoers feel they have to have it all explained to them. I think the problem here is people were going in expecting the next big summer blockbuster, whereas this movie tried to be something a little different than the normal action flick. Anyway, to each, his own, view the movie yourself and see what you think.  "},{"Title":"It's the BEST dragon flick ever, so why the bad reviews?","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found it to be thoughtful, entertaining, and action packed.  I particularly enjoyed the lack of the compulsory love interest a la Hollywood.  Many of the bad reviews seem to emanate from the unwillingness of the writers to repeat themselves.  Although there are a couple of plot points that require the viewer to fill in the gaps and there is a noticeable lack of sub text, the animation was fluid and fit into the live action seamlessly, the acting was adequate, and Matthew McConaughey did an outstanding job of shedding his usual chick flick persona.  I would not have known it was his had I not read the credits.  If you dig dragon flicks or action flicks, and you don't want to be patronized by spoon fed plot details, or if you're just a guy, this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"Mad Max meets the Dragons","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Mad Max meets the Dragons.What a silly waste of film. A decent idea with a horrid film attached.  And they could have saved a lot of money using B&W film; the rare color of note is only the flames. Grey, blue and black are poor tools. Maybe it's supposed to remind us of old WWII films?The Disney version will probably be better.A study in why simply adding fire and big booms to a movie is not enough.And why, when in species danger, do humans have to dress up as medieval persons?Christian Bale should have quit at 15 and become a tax collector, duller than the sharp end of an egg.Don't pay for it, wait for it on Mystery Theater 3000.  "},{"Title":"Friendship, Loyalty, Honor","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has been highly underrated by critics. I have no idea of what they were expecting, but I wasn't disappointed. Quinton (Bale) is a true leader, putting the lives of his people first. The American's who come into his community dedicate their lives to destroying Dragons, ultimately leading the beasts to Quinton's camp...which is exactly what Quinton did not want to happen. This movie shows the best and worst of humanity. People will do what they think it best, reguardless of leaders or majority rules. The special effects are phenominal...couldn't even tell there was CGI involved...accept for in one scene ontop of a cylo (you'll definately catch it if you see it). Well worth seeing multiple times. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park meets the end of the world....","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is the perfect movie to fill those endless summer voids that can make this time of year seem so interminably long. Though nothing about it is truly innovative, it manages to tell its story in a heart-stopping, seat-clenching kind of way.  Christian Bale's performance is excellent. Who knew he had more range than the villains he seems to play with alarming sincerity? As the leader of a small-ish community, desperately trying to scrape out an existence in the ash-covered English countryside, he is both commanding and warm. It was also refreshing to see that the writer and director did not attempt to create or insinuate any romance between any of the main characters. Too often this element is added into action/adventure movies where it would have been better left aside.The only real flaw here was a weak ending. The film started off quite well but seemed to taper off towards the end as we drew closer to the inevitable conclusion.Make sure you see this one in the theatre! "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire(2002)Review What a concept. Dragons are not to tame in the movies, but they need to be perceived nicely. This is not your medieval dragon-slayer movie.Reign of Fire is in the desolate and dark future when dragons have literally taken over the world. Only survivors have taken refuge and continue to hide from the fire-breathing predators and try to live another day.The look of this is pure destruction. The dragons have destroyed much of the world. A group of people in a castle in England are trying to defy the dragons, but to no avail till one day, the American military arrives and changes much. I'll stop there.The plot is good, but the real treat is Matthew McConaughey. He is fantastic here. He is truly different here and delivers. Christian Bale is great, as always. The Dragons are rather awesome looking.This has the look of Mad Max, but Max never faced off against a dragon before. The action scenes are fun and deliver energy and are well done. The acting is fine, with the exception of McConaughey, who is great.The Last Word A nice dragon movie. It's fresh to see 21st century dragon-slayers. This is not great, but is good. Definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"A story about how Mcconaughey saves the world and the movie itself","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Brave Americans have been saving the world in cinematography for many- many years (mostly from aliens and terrorists). This time though it was something unbelievably fresh. The world have been saved by Americans together with English from...dragons(!)...in future! Such wow! This is...fantastic...in all senses. Don't get me wrong, i did like the movie, but mostly due to the cast. Mcconaughey did his job exquisitely once again. One will find him in a very unusual role here (not that i barely recognized him or something, i did, and was even really amazed). For Bale - well job as well. The plot and the actualization are cheesy but it could be worse (there are lots of similar movies which are trashy). But this one is quite fascinating, sometimes even intriguing. So i would recommend to watch it just for one time. Evening, beer, pizza and Mcconaughey killing dragons - a pretty nice kit for having a good time, don't you think? "},{"Title":"Fight or Live","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What happens when fire breathing dragons roam the world. Obviously, fire reign in the sky ergo Reign of Fire. Now that we had cleared that up, heh, we enter in a world of scarcity, battle, hopelessness in the eyes of some people. But there are some, who lives on to fight and regains what was lost. Some question them, what is the point? Why still fight a battle were even when fleets, armies, marines were helpless against them, completely decimated.For this two completely opposite view, we are introduced to two people of one that found a way to live with it, and one who continues to fight this ravaging merciless beasts. This is not all fight. This two people living in two opposite lives, comes to different realization. The fighter comes to helplessness and the farmer learns there is still something left to fight.Now, the graphics. Real and life like. That's all that I could say. Very believable. Motions of the dragons when landing or flying both closely resembles the birds. The way the body flexes, considers the weights and length of its neck and wings, and tails.Entertaining in a way only battles and death can give. Edgy and worldly, you know, where world is at stake. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised, burn baby burn","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have no idea of the budget of this movie comparing to others but I thought it represented a rather solid SciFi flick.The plot is rather simple A post-apocalyptic men versus Dragons fight for survival (well, men try to survive at least). I thought the acting was quite convincing - the two protagonist, attempting to protect and lead their people with their own style meet and diverge on the course of action - there are no small talks or useless jokes in this one, just plain and simple action. Even though there are a few gaps in the script (can't understand where the gas supply comes from, the survivors are starving but look quite healthy and plumped to me and a few more details like this) the desolated towns and scenes are believable and really feels right for the genre and one gets into the mind set of the story. The dragons themselves are nicely done, their looks and moves seem on the spot and while the final scene really shows an awesome close-up, it almost seems that the beast are secondary to this movie. It is more about the human characters than anything else and it got my thumb up for that. "},{"Title":"Dragons and the Humans Who Fear Them.","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragons, explosions, motorcycles, guns, tattoos; sounds awesome. That's what I thought anyways after seeing the trailer for Reign of Fire, Rob Bowman's 2002 post- apocalyptic thriller about dragons and the humans that fear them. Christian Bale and Mathew McConaughy, who play the lead roles, went on to have successful careers after this movie.  First off, Rob Bowman deserves substantial credit for agreeing to direct this movie, considering the riskiness of such an endeavor. Bowman, who produced many of the X-Files episodes, was no stranger to the sci-fi thriller genre when he signed onto this. However, the prospect of making a high budget special effects film about the dragon apocalypse must have seemed a little far-fetched. After all, how would a bunch of dragons manage to defeat the world's military and burn the entire surface of the earth to ash? Why couldn't they be stopped? Most importantly though, why dragons of all things? Certainly a unique premise, it appears as though the film did not come together as well as it could have. Reign of Fire does succeed however in creating a great post-apocalyptic atmosphere, which bears significant resemblance to the world seen in the future sequences of James Cameron's Terminator movies. The trench-coat clad gunmen coupled with the burnt out English countryside help to establish a similar feeling of impending doom and gloominess to that of John Conner's future war against the machines. Copious amounts of ash and fog, ever present in the film, help to intensify this effect. Bowman also made a great decision to stray away from the typical Godzilla-style monster movie by sacrificing the over-the-top scenes of carnage that the genre is notorious for in order to leave room for character development.The problem is that the people responsible for this movie forgot to include character development. Perhaps they were too excited about the dragons. Much of the plot revolves around Christian Bale, who plays a thirty something year old English man named Quinn. Quinn, who accidentally woke up the original dragon that started the whole mess, now protects a group of survivors by not wearing his shirt. Sadly, Bale's character is an insult to his talent. Quinn spends much of his time on screen being depressed and shouting at people without having any revealing dialogue.We never really get to learn too much about Quinn however, because Mathew McConaughy shows up about thirty minutes in and steals the show, although you'll wish he hadn't. McConaughy, who inexplicably goes by the name of Van Zan, rides up to Quinn's fort straddling a tank gun and quickly establishes himself as the film's leading source of phallic imagery. A full-bodied yet empty character, Van Zan, or Thrust Meat-Chunk, looks as if he had just stepped out of an Unreal Tournament game. He also claims to be an expert dragon slayer.Somehow, Van Zan, has managed to pilot a huge cargo jet full of American stereotypes over to England to save the day because hey, that's what America does, right? He plans to do so by defeating the original dragon that Quinn unwittingly released at the age of eight. Van intends to accomplish this feat through the use of motorcycles and a helicopter. Unfortunately, Van Slam-Chest quickly proves himself to be one of the most incompetent action heroes in film history, leading one to wonder how he's survived so long without being eaten. Van's habit of knowing nearly everything about the dragons leads one to doubt whether or not the film-makers knew how to resolve the movie.By the end of the film, the audience will likely be rooting for Van Zan's death and wondering why it hadn't come earlier. Essentially, it's McConaughy's character who ruins Reign of Fire, which otherwise may have been a decent sci-fi thriller. While Van appears to have good intentions, his arrogance and destructive nature prevent him from being a suitable protagonist.Despite Van Man's excessive screen time, Reign of Fire does contain some redeeming qualities. In particular, it does a good job of capturing humanity's pitiful state in the post industrial era. Most notable is the the light saber duel that Quinn and his friend put on in the decaying church for the children's amusement. It is moving to see the adult generation's efforts to preserve the culture of a bygone age of human history. Overall though, Reign of Fire fails to be a successful thriller. The moderate special effects do not make up for the fact that this film lacks the exciting action sequences, quirky dialogue and fun character's that define its genre. "}{"Title":"One of the best Dragon Movies ever made","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I only recently had the pleasure of watching this sleeper hit. I am a HUGE fan of Christian Bale, Mathew McC, and Gerard Butler, and seeing the three of them together in leading roles in one movie was a treat. This movie delivers excellent lines, acting, and some amazing very scary dragon special effects, not sure why people are calling this 'low budget'.The movie tells the tale of a near future England where sleeping dragons have been released from an ancient tomb. They quickly multiply and overwhelm human military capabilities, and we are soon in a doomsday world where humans scrounge beneath the earth for survival while dragons rule the skies and the world above. Enter Matthew McConaughey as tough talking former US army commander leading a rag-tag unit of dragon hunters, to teach the limeys how to fight again.Which leads me to this movie's major downfall STORY AND PLOT HAVE HOLES THE SIZE OF DRAGONS IN THEM...Story and Plot are sadly lacking in this movie, which is otherwise brilliantly acted and brilliantly filmed. The tired old story of the US coming to Britain's rescue was done in WW2, and rather insulting nowadays. Gerard Butler dies one of the most useless and hilarious deaths in film, walking upstairs to confront an elder male dragon with a fire extinguisher (I AM NOT KIDDING). OMG....Matthew McConaughey has a rather childish hissy fit when the English decide to throw a victory party for their first group dragon kill, as some of the Americans got killed... kinda silly.And the solution to all their problems is simply to kill the one male dragon... uh, what if another male hatches? Wouldn't the dragon 'species' have a solution to that??? Other than these truly dragon-sized plot holes, the movie delivers a gritty doomsday flick about dragon fighting. Not quite up to the epic and still undefeatable DRAGON SLAYER, but a worthy addition to the Dragon Movies overall.With a bit more cash and a bit more attention to plot and story, this could have truly been an epic movie. As it stands, it's still well worth renting for anyone with an interest in dragons and doomsday type flix. "},{"Title":"A Burned Over World","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign Of Fire is about a post apocalyptic world in which human survivors are huddled in communities trying to make it through another day. The thing that has caused the apocalypse is not atomic war, chemical war, biological war, or a natural disaster. It's the awakening of creatures thought to be mythical, but dragons turn out to be very real.A brief prologue involving the character who grows up to be Christian Bale sets the stage as workers in the London underground accidentally awaken the beast. Young Ben Thornton survives but his mother is one of many killed by the dragon's first blast of fire.Fast forward about thirty years and Thornton, now Christian Bale is leader of a small colony in rural Great Britain if in fact such a government still exists. The dragons have multiplied and roam the world. They breathe fire and consume the ash of what they breathe for food. Makes it real hard to kill.Bale is just looking to survive, but a squadron of dragon killers led by Matthew McConaughey is over from across the pond. They've got a tip on how to end the dragon menace for humanity which involves their reproductive processes and are looking for help.That's the business conflict between McConaughey and Bale. They've also got a personal thing going, a little sexual tension over McConaughey's second in command, Izabella Scoruppo. I have to say Izabella fills a flight suit out real nice.The best things about Reign Of Fire are the sets showing the burned over world the dragons have left. So incredibly bleak, they make the sets of Mel Gibson's Mad Max films look like the Everglades. The special effects with the dragons are pretty good as well.In fact the technical aspects of the film do overwhelm the human players somewhat. Still McConaughey, Bale, Scoruppo and the rest do get their characterizations across.Not a bad film in general, Reign Of Fire is a must for science fiction fans. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but also lacking on a few aspects","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Hurray, I thought, a dragon movie! But, to my disappointment, there wasn't much dragon action compared to the rest of the movie.I have to admit though that the CGI in this movie was quite good. The dragons looked cool and moved very believable. So good job, CGI guys!The story is a post-apocalyptic one. The Earth is completely burned by the flames of the dragons. The last remaining humans hide in underground homes. It's a really depressing setting. Of course at some point, they come up with a plan to eradicate their flying enemies...Reign of Fire is entertaining, but it could have used more dragon action and perhaps a longer runtime.Still, 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A good tale about really mean dragons.","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've got to find this on disc.The monster dragons are among the best CGI fantasy creatures I've seen in a while; they are truly scary and vicious (sp) and up to the last 3 minutes they are featured unbeatable as a species. They make the raptors in the 1st Jurasic Park little yappy puppies. These dive bombing were the stars of this movie. Their screen time--especially their flying over wreckage put me in mind of super-sized bald eagles but with way badder attitudes. The story leads through the process of the of course victory and I very happy at lack of crappy love story side plot. but for reasons I'll mention later; the surroundings grabbed me more than the course events and character dialog. This is a grubby world; Mad Max as some have mentioned is indeed close but for me it was worse, no one looks glamorous and I don't believe the female protagonist in this never touched makeup. The tone is dark and the characters are understandably have dog eat--oh heck Dragon eat Dragon mentality.Only thing I found rather confusing, the dialog. The British/ Austrilian (sp) accents seemed thicker than I'm use--but nobody's faking their accents. Except for the first 10 minutes of film lines are delivered at a rush. This can be explainable; the people are trying to survive in this world that I would never imagine myself touching one of these dragons' eggs.Gritty and well paced. Give it 9 stars. "},{"Title":"Apocalyse of the Dragon","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Matthew McConaughey & Christian Bale post-apocalyptic drama about dragon slaying, Reign of Fire, combines elements of science fiction in its futuristic setting with the airborne mythological creatures of sword & sorcery to create an above-average, often incendiary hybrid hair-raiser sizzling with thrills, chills, spills, and testosterone. Imagine Steven Spielberg's Jaws (1975) rolled up with George Miller's The Road Warrior Mad Max 2 (1981), and you'll have a good idea what transpires in the atmospheric Reign of Fire. The comparison with Jaws is inevitable, because director Richard D. Zanuck, who produced Jaws, serves as one of the Reign of Fire producers. Suspensefully helmed by Rob Bowman, who directed the 1998 big-screen X-Files movie, Reign of Fire treats its subject matter with surprising sobriety, deliberately shunning humor for the most part, while forging an inventive but formulaic man versus giant monster melodrama. Freshman scribes Gregg Chabot and Kevin Peterka, alongside Halloween H20 writer Matt Greenberg, have give dragon movies a new lease-on-life by grafting them onto futuristic science fiction fare.Reign of Fire opens in contemporary London as a British construction crew excavating earth for a new subway tunnel drills off into a subterranean void. Intrepid young Quinn&#151;son of the project engineer&#151;takes a flashlight and explores this dark cavern, while the workers scratch their heads in mystery. Initially, when he lays his hands on the cavern walls, Quinn doesn't realize that he has just awakened a sleeping dragon. Suddenly, an arc of fire illuminates the gloomy void, and Quinn turns to see a dragon as it rears its ugly, scaly head. Quinn escapes from the tunnel in an elevator, but his divorced mother/project engineer, Karen Abercromby (Alice Krige of Star Trek First Contact), dies in a spectacular blaze when the dragon all but cremates the construction site. This legendary beast flies off and spawns millions of dragons. According to the screenplay, dragons originally decimated the dinosaurs and turned the Earth into little more than smoke and ashes before going into hibernation with their appetites assuaged for several centuries.Twenty years later, in 2020 A.D., after these flying, fire-breathing reptiles have laid waste to the planet again, an adult Quinn (Christian Bale of American Psycho) has emerged as leader of a small community of survivors in the ruins of a Northumbian castle. Discontent erupts against Quinn's rule when a starving few demand to harvest their produce ahead of schedule. Dragons prowl the skies twenty-four-seven, and they have grown especially ravenous, since they now outnumber human beings. Just as Quinn has all but lost faith in mankind and himself, up roars battle-hardened tough guy Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey of U-571) in a tank at the head of a convoy of a helicopter flown by Alex (Izabella Scorupco of GoldenEye) bringing up the rear. Van Zan and Quinn clash at first, but eventually they team up to take on these terrifying dragons. People that complain that Hollywood churns out the same old stuff every summer may find Reign of Terror a refreshing departure from the norm. "},{"Title":"Only one thing worse than a dragon Americans!","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can't imagine why this title has such an unexpected low rating on IMDb, and I don't really care. This is a a beautifully atmospheric post-apocalyptic fantasy flick. You'll probably wish to see more of the dragon(s), but when it is flash bang on screen it's worth the money. The fact that one rarely gets a good look at it before the big finale makes it all the more menacing.The editors used color grading to enhance the dramatic effect, so everything before the climax is shaded either dirty-gray or fiery-red - and there is a lot of fire, as the title suggests. A bald Matthew McConaughey riding a tank with the barrel sticking up between his legs is a memorable image, while the scene that has Quinn and Creedy reenact the highlights of Star Wars for their custodial children is virtually unforgettable. A funny mixture of English dialects one rarely gets to hear on film adds a flavor for non-native speakers with a taste for the original.There is a lot of subtle drama and good acting on screen, especially for an action movie. McConaughey has the only cartoon character role, but that's what he does best. The creators used every bit they could tell a story with, from the paintings and sketches on the medieval castle's walls to the faces of the children. So sometimes it feels like a mixture of The Name of the Rose and The Lord of the Rings with a comic book, but the mixture is truly original.The film has its (commercial) shortcomings, mainly that the big action scenes are too sparse, and what is there looks too minimalistic for fans of (expensive) Bruce Willis-style overkill. Some CGI flyover scenes would have established a better sense of time and place. On the other hand, the notion of fantasy creatures taking over requires a stretch of the mind. The story focuses on the struggle of a tiny group of survivors, and the battles of the rest of the world show up only as news flashes in the prologue. The split between drama and nitty-gritty action, fantasy and realism is maybe what distinguishes it above the average. And there is the stunning visual beauty of the images. It's definitely not going to gather dust on my shelf, but be watched again from time to time. "},{"Title":"The sweet smell of ash in the morning","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a big fan of post-apocalyptic movies, and dragons are, obviously, awesome beyond measure. Highlighting this movie you have Bale and McConaughey and their conflict, which is really what this movie is about, human conflict. Because even though the dragons have driven humanity to extinction its still in our nature to be completely retarded and therefore endanger our survival in all sorts of ways, for all sorts of reasons...The movie isn't really fast paced, its not epic (in the sense that the dragons are never met by an army in battle), but it is good. That's really all I can say about this one, its good, not spectacular, but a good movie.. course I'm biased because of my twilight zone style adoration for post-apocalyptic movies... "},{"Title":"An excellent dark fantasy.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an excellent dark fantasy, an adult fantasy, if you will and the acting is well up to the story. It is a good tight script and keeps a fast pace. The allegory of a post nuclear age brought on by the advent of dragons freed from a millennial dormancy, points to the problems of survival in such a world. Many of our greatest science fiction authors have speculated on this, and this film tends to bring it all together nicely. My one complaint with this film is that it was shot so dark that it is hard to see a lot of the action. The novel idea of one male for all of the female dragons is an excellent one however. Much of the look of the dragons tends to remind one of the 1997 version of Godzilla, with the lairs of creatures underground. Christian Bale was good as Quinn, and Matthew McConaughy shines as Van Zan. Gerard Butler was wasted in the film, not because his performance was bad, by no means, but because his character needed to have more to do. Still a very watchable film. "},{"Title":"Fun variation on a timeless allegory.","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey give intense performances as two men with opposite views on how to lead others in difficult circumstances. An unexpected discovery releases an alpha male Dragon who fathers the resurgence of the species. A montage shows how how dragons emerge as the dominant species. In the aftermath, Christian Bale organizes survivors into a self sustaining community at an intact historic castle. Bale's view is to protect, endure and wait it out. McConaughey arrives and contradicts Bale, believing the only resolution is a direct confrontation. The movie plays the conflict fairly straight and is very effective. I think the performances and quality of production hold up well and recommend it to everyone as an example of an under-appreciated cross genre popcorn flick. ) This was the first film that I saw Bale in and he is very convincing. The basic allegorical foundation of this film isn't new but it is timeless. Whether it be Watership Down or the new Battlestar Galactica, I never tire of variations on this story.If dragons are your thing, I also recommend the 1981 Dragonslayer directed by Mathew Robbins. "},{"Title":"(POSSIBLE SPOILER)...Enough smoke and fire to satisfy even the most hardcore arsonists...","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You have to give the writers credit for originality. No one expects to have a dragon tale set in the 21st century, present day London. And if ever a movie was dominated by spectacular special effects, this is the one. A scarier bunch of fire-breathing dragons I've never seen before, artfully constructed so as to look as real as they are foreboding. The screeching soundtrack, full of whooshing noises and blasts of thumping music, adds to the scare factor and makes them look chillingly real.The actors seem to be having a fine time realizing they have to stick together to fight these awesome creatures. When the American Matthew McConaughey shows up (looking like an escapee from a tattoo parlor) and joins forces with Christian Bale and Gerard Butler, things really begin to happen.Fast moving entertainment with enough smoke and fire to satisfy even the most jaded arsonist. The FX wizards have done their work efficiently and there's no letup in the tension as the actors try to save a world that has been overcome by dragons living on the ashes of their spoils.Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey give performances so full of intensity that it's a relief to have Gerard Butler (as the Scotch accented Creedy) lighten the tone with a performance that combines masculine energy with some lighter tones. His unexpected demise toward the finale abruptly cancels any sense of humor the dialog allows from then on. It is the heroic Butler who gives the most satisfying performance among the male players. As the sole woman with a large action-filled part, Izabella Scorupco (as Alex) does an excellent job.Rob Bowman should be congratulated for designing a movie that will certainly appeal to anyone interested in dragon-slaying stories with the accent on the horror aspects. His team of special effects wizards have done a remarkable job in creating an atmosphere of tension and possible doom. "}{"Title":"Dragons fly and so does this movie","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I bought this movie on DVD some time ago and watch it with the same pleasure time after time. This is not a typical Hollywoodian type of action movie. The look is gritty and muddy and the movie beats on its own pace. There is little I did not like in the story or the treatment of the movie. The dragons are great, the characters are human and believable and the effects are fantastic. This is a movie I recommend for people who like action and still want an intelligent script that can hold to some scrutiny (as long as we can believe in the existence of Dragons). The only peeve I could have is at the end with the seemingly inesplicable sacrifice of one of the main characters. Other than the shock effect it accomplishes nothing in terms of the story. "},{"Title":"A very exciting film not to be missed!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ever since I was a kid, I had always had a fascination with dragons, and this is a top notch film that brought to the screen, exactly what I envisioned dragons to be.A crew digging in modern day London unleashes an ancient dragon unto the world. Quinn, a twelve year old boy, is the only survivor of that fateful day. Fast forward to the year 2020, Quinn (played by Christian Bale), is now a grown man leading a group of men, women and children to survive against the threat of the dragons. Their peaceful existence is threatened when Van Zan (played by Matthew McConaughey), a wild American who claims to be a dragon killer, arrives at their home, and tries to enlist the English to help him rid the world of the threat of the dragons. Soon, both men realize that they have to work together to somehow survive.With eye popping special effects and fantastic stunt sequences, Reign of Fire is a thrill ride for beginning to end. Bale and McConaughey are great playing opposite each other, and the script is both exciting and fast paced.For fans of both fantasy and science fiction, and action fans alike, I highly recommend Reign of Fire. "},{"Title":"We all know there is no Santa but we still love Christmas.","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie begins with a great insult to humankind and its war power. All the armies in the world, with their air defense systems, jet fighters, attack helicopters, nuke-proof tanks, anti-aircraft missiles and rapid-fire cannons, shoulder missiles, RPGs, heavy-caliber machineguns and God knows what else &#150; all of this are defeated by some slow flying lizards, which can be killed with an arrow and armed with nothing but teeth, claws and a flamethrower. But... nobody demands Spiderman or Batman to be believable, so why this movie should be? I find the Reign of Fire much more stylish and entertaining, filled with dark charm and blessed with an absence of nauseate cheap moralizing. The cinematography, colors, design and special effects are brilliant. So stop screaming There are no dragons underground London! and enjoy the excellent entertainment! "},{"Title":"Fun, Rocking Horror Flick","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love a good monster movie. That's tough in the age of Freddie and Jason and the serial killer next door. Reign of Fire delivers a fun, rocking horror flick in the great monster movie tradition.  Godzilla wishes it had been this movie.Matthew McConaughey is over the top. Christian Bale is at his brooding best. The monster is monstrously scary and amazingly delivered with superb special effects. Unlike all the other end of the world disaster/monster movies, this film wastes little time telling us how the world is going to end when the dragons take over. Instead, we skip most of that and go right to the after effects. So the story moves at a steady clip without sacrificing too much character development.The movie really didn't get its due in the theaters. But that only means that you can pick the DVD up at a very reasonable price almost anywhere. It is perfectly safe for teenagers to watch along with their parents ... and a nice bucket of popcorn, of course.Go for it ... you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy/action movie!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say, two of my favourite genres meet - fantasy and war movies! I thought Reign of Fire was brilliant great action, spectacular effects, a decent (if farfetched) plot, well realised characters and fantastic sets & scenery. The makers of this movie spent a lot of time researching various animals (snakes, bats etc.) to make their dragons more believable - and it shows. To me, this is the best vision of a dragon I have seen in any movie, even better than in Dragonlslayer or Dragonheart. Also, I found the post apocalyptic society presented in the movie very believable, complete with cultural references to the before-time. I emapthised with the characters, and felt all in the movie did a very good acting job. One warning though don't be misled by the trailers, this movie doesn't actually feature all that much modern weaponry vs. dragons action; it is a limited to a few short battles. The only other nit-pick I had was the solution our heroes come up with for the dragon problem - without giving too much away, I will say it was a pretty far stretch of the imagination to accept the facts presented which open the door for a final victory. All in all a very good movie, especially if you are a fan of dragons, or man vs. beast movies.  "},{"Title":"Incomplete","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is the year 2020, and dragons have taken over the world. There are very few humans left, and the ones that are are struggling to survive. In what is a great story it is not followed through throughly enough. Everything is just to easy to believe. But even so it's not that bad. A good story, but, unfortunetley, with poor action, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Lots of promise, but fails to deliver.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was able to see this during a sneak-preview. The film itself has great possibilities, however, it does not live up to them. I will try to review this film without giving away too much. The dragons lack any real personality, the Van Zandt character is about as 1-dimensional as they come, and the dragons, the stars of the film, are hardly there. Too much of this film is spent on back-story, and yet the plot as many holes in it as Jurassic Park III. For example, the working theory is that the dragons appear every so often in history, the most recent event was their killing off of the dinosaurs and caused the ice age. Fine, except for two huge problems. First, the dinosaurs died a few million years before the ice age, and second, the only real source of modern-day dragon lore comes from the Middle Ages, which they completely ignore. There are may others that stand out, but I will not spoil the film for everyone else. Go and enjoy it, but don't expect a landmark in dragon lore.  "},{"Title":". a fast paced and fun creature feature unlike many in recent decades.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Veteran TV director Rob Bowman (The X Files) delivers a fast paced and fun creature feature unlike many in recent decades. Not concerned with plausibility, the movie shoots for entertainment and scores. Obviously not the most original movie, it's been a while since one like this has been done well. Always an intriguing mythological creature, the dragon makes its comeback into American cinema without most of the camp stigma associated with their previous appearances in other cheesy sci-fi films.Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale carry the post-apocalyptic testosterone film well and find ways of making dragon slaying seem exciting. The creatures look pretty good for the most part, but every once in a while seems a little over-the-top. With the Jurassic Park-style technology, it's the right time to try a movie like this.You should be able to tell from the preview if this is something you'll enjoy or not. It's well done for what it is, but not for everyone. It's a good escapist film mostly made for guys, but gives the girls enough oiled-up eye candy in the often shirtless and chiseled McConaughey and Bale. Go check it out if this looks like something you'd enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A swell surprise, a solidly-written summer thriller","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Who'd have thought it from the loud mindless trailers, but Reign of Fire is a fine, interesting piece of work reminiscent of mid-50s British sci-fi classics like the Quatermass series.I mention that because there were a couple of things those Val Guest/Nigel Kneale pommie flicks did that their U.S. equivalents at the time *didn't* do hold together a lucid plotline and intertwine a lot of elements from classic literature into what is, essentially, an adrenaline-fest. Reign of Fire has the same advantage over its peer-group this year.Basic story (no spoilers here) Boy is witness to the onset of a catastrophic unleashing of a dragon-like being on Earth, and as an adult 20 years later (Christian Bale)is the mayor of a post-apocalyptic survivalist community in the rugged north of England. They're just hanging on against a plague of dragons in an ash-laden landscape, holed up in a castle, when Matthew McConnaughy shows up with a surprisingly well-equipped military unit. Action, cultural conflicts, dragon-fighting and plausible-enough scientific explanations ensue.The sets are great, the acting good to great, the script makes sense (which is kind of amazing to me...all the writers are imdb-listed as only having done TV, and this suffers from none of TV's dumbing-down or wierd commercial-every-eight-minutes pacing), and has some references to both Wuthering Heights and Moby Dick. The special effects are so-so (another similarity to those mid-1950s Brit sci-fi gems because it was the plots and dialogue that were the crux, not the fx).The last ten minutes are a mite too fast and too predictable, but that barely sullies the overall quality of this clever, tight, entertaining, never-boring-for-a-minute film.The first action film of the summer not aimed directly at 13-year-old-boys-and-to-heck-with-everyrone-else. In fact, if Joe Bob Briggs and Charlotte Bronte dated, they'd both come out of the theatre content. "},{"Title":"Too little carnage and dragons","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great concept, heck it is a wonderful concept, but it falls short of the promises that it makes. For a movie about dragons there are surprising few that actually show up on screen and in action. There are grand battles with dragons nor anything that really stuck out as being stunningly awesome. If there is one thing that this movie lacks, it is scope. Even with a setting in the English countryside, the film feels claustrophobic and uncomfortably tight. The legend of the dragons is even breezed by and not realized into the large story that it is but only alluded to with mock up newspaper articles and publications. Allusion is the films main trick and it turns it too often. Film is a visual medium; I just wished this film had used it better. "}{"Title":"Fire-roasted Fun!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a good old-fashioned monster flick seasoned with a dash of Mad Max and a pinch of Medieval darkness.  The story takes place in England, circa 2010-2020 A.D., in a world that has been virtually destroyed by a species of fire-breathing dragons.   Survivors band together for self-preservation, except Van Zan (McConaughey) and his followers, who are intent upon slaying the dragons and freeing the world from their 'reign of fire'.  McConaughey is, by the way, remarkably 'tough' in this film.  He and European co-stars Christian Bale, Izabella Scorupco and Gerard Butler all offer good performances.Visually, the movie is often powerful, although the quality of the special effects varies widely from scene-to-scene.  In some, the dragons look amazingly realistic and scary, while in others they appear a bit fake and unconvincing.  Several scenes, though, are totally awesome and, overall, 'Reign' delivers a heaping helping of thrills, chills and heart-pounding fun.The plot has a few warts, of course.  For example, where did Van Zan and his crew gas up their helicopter and tanks?  Hmmm.  Oh well, this is a 'fantasy' and doesn't necessarily need to make sense.  The dragons are nasty enough and, if you love a good monster flick as much as I do, it's well worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"Coughing up smoke.","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember being so captivated by its movie trailer when I first caught it, but I guess not enough to go out the cinemas to see it. Yet alone when it came to DVD. Or even when it aired on TV. Yes I just picked up a cheap ex-rental and watched it for the first time. To tell the truth I could have gone even longer without seeing it as the competently made, well-budgeted Reign of Fire was slightly entertaining, but disappointedly an unspectacular post-apocalyptic action feature. I just didn't think it gave you all that much bang for your buck. The atmospheric sound effects are earth-shaking and the special effects while impressive weren't particularly exciting and this goes for the set-pieces. Outside one or two stunning sequences (one involving sky-diving), it's all smoke with little fire and intensity cobbled together with a thin plot and makeshift characters. While short-lived and precise, not much really occurs within the framework until the dying stages. Director Rob Bowman slickly crafts an effectively forlorn and dour wasteland setting burned to the crisp, but his basic story-telling lacks the power and imagination. The acting is reasonable. Christian Bale goes about things in a stark manner and Matthew McConaughey chips in with a meaty performance. The tension is fuelled mainly by these two character's battling out with their egos to who's really in control and knows best for the situation they find themselves in. Izabella Scorupco and Gerard Butler offer up fine support too. "},{"Title":"Yawn!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, what can I say? The cover art looked cool, the premise looked exciting. The SFX were quite good, actually, but the movie was very boring. I had to struggle to stay awake, and was left totally unsatisfied at the end. And that's about it. "},{"Title":"Only one thing worse than a Dragon... Americans. It was a nice day until the Reign came...","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire starts in present day London as 12 year old Quinn Abercromby (Ben Thornton) enters a underground construction site to visit his Mother (a 12 year old wandering around on his own on a dangerous building site without even a hard hat? Now that must break some rules somewhere...) Karen (Alice Krige). While there one of the workers finds an underground cavern as he drills & sends Quinn inside with a torch to have a look (again this doesn't seem like these people are following proper safety procedures, does it?) where he sees a huge fire-breathing Dragon who toasts everyone down there except Quinn who makes it out alive, just. It's now '2020 A.D.' & Dragons have all but destroyed the entire Earth, only a few small groups of humans survive. One such group is lead by the now adult Quinn (Christian Bale), life is hard as food is scarce, in fighting is rife & the constant threat of a Dragon attack is obviously worrying. One day a troop of American soldiers lead by Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) pulls up outside their camp & ask for shelter which Quinn eventually agrees to. Van Zan reveals he is on a mission that he hopes will bring about the extinction of the Dragon & needs men to go with him & his soldiers, after various attacks by Dragons most of Van Zan's soldiers are wiped out as is Quinn's camp, together with helicopter pilot Alex Jensen (Izabella Scorupco) Quinn & Van Zan set off for London for one last attempt to save the human race...Directed by Rob Bowman I thought Reign of Fire was a perfectly acceptable big budget Hollywood fantasy/horror/action film but felt a little empty & soulless. The script by Gregg Chabot, Kevin Peterka & Matt Greenberg moves along at a reasonable pace & never becomes overly boring but the story never really engaged or gripped me, I just sort of sat there watching Reign of Fire & admiring it's fantastic CGI Dragon effects but not being that interested in anything else, I was also constantly asking where these soldiers got all the fuel for their tanks & even a helicopter no less! I only finished watching it a few hours ago & I really can't remember that much about it which is never a good sign. It takes itself with deadly seriousness & some of the macho dialogue & posturing between Quinn & Van Zan particularly when they first meet is just embarrassing to sit through. The notion that millions of Dragons were created by one male is a bit absurd, & why did no one figure out the solution before Van Zan? Also at the start only the male Dragon was discovered so where did the first female come from for him to mate with? Then again it's just a film & maybe I'm thinking about it too much... Another problem I have with Reign of Fire is it's look, I found it an extremely unappealing film to sit through as Bowman films everything outside with a dull grey ash colour for obvious reasons & when inside he films with a warm yellow glow as everything is mean to be lit by candles. I'm all for certain colour schemes, experimentation & variation but I just found Reign of Fire an incredibly dull & visually unexciting film. Director Bowman creates some good action sequences & there is a definite gritty realistic atmosphere throughout. With a supposed budget of $95,000,000 technically Reign of Fire is top-notch & has that Hollywood polish about it as you would expect. The production design & sets are very good but the star of the show are the wonderful CGI Dragon effects, although used sparingly they impress throughout. One thing I will say is the Dragon design in Reign of Fire looks almost identical to the Dragon in Dragonslayer (1981) which isn't a bad thing as such but they just look very similar. The violence is restrained & there is no blood or gore to be found so don't worry about that, there are a few uses of bad language though so maybe it's not suitable for all ages. The acting is OK considering the material. Reign of Fire is a decent watch, I didn't love it but at the same time I didn't hate it either. I will have to sit on the fence a little bit here & say it's probably no more than average with some great Dragon scenes but offset by a couple of plot holes which still bug me even now. Worth a watch if you can catch it on TV for free or rent it cheap. "},{"Title":"Dragonheart, without a heart","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Blunt as a weapon, roaring as a lion and hot as a tank of flaming gasoline. Reign of fire has no space for character construction, either back story or feelings. It's just humans dying and dragons roaring. Isn' that awesome!? Dude, it's Dungeons and dragons with balls and fire weapons. If you take that out, you can kiss bye bye to this wannabe epic production. This is a use and throw movie, fun as you see and easy to forget, but that can turn into a future cult movie as Outland became. Rob Bowman was the right yet wrong director to make this (I wonder what could had happened if Stephen Hopkins would took the director's seat) so he is an expert in monsters. Matthew McGonahey is the best one them all, he is cool, harsh, brutal and violent. Christian Bale is a weak boy who wasn't sure of what he was going to be in the future, and I prefer not to mention Scorupco. To finish with this Reign of fire is a great trash movie, which you will enjoy a lot while you watch, and if you love monsters you will have it in your DVD preferences. Don't care about the performance quality, all goes for the flaming lizards. "},{"Title":"An Engaging Movie","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Although I expected more thrilling action, especially in the climax scenes, Reign of Fire is still engaging. And to see Mathew Mcconaughey, Christian Bale and Gerard Butler in one frame is like wow! The movie has an ashen look from start to end, probably the result of the nuclear explosions that was futile against destroying the dragon species completely. The performances are good from the entire cast and also the effects are realistic enough. Would I recommend it? No, because I felt disappointed with the final action scenes. Watchable for the acting(especially Mathew in a badass character) and some of the dragon encounters. "},{"Title":"Great film and the start of careers for both main actors","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is great, I have watched numerous times and it is always good value.What is so good is seeing the emergence of Christian Bale (pre Batman) as being able to hold and command a leading role. He had done so previously but this was his first action role and this then leads on to his future.However, it is Matthew McConaughey who commands and elicits most interest in the film. I really do believe that it is this film that began his renaissance. It proved he could act and could also do gritty roles.This is a seminal film for both actors, great work and good for their future prospects. "},{"Title":"Dragons in the modern world","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Young Quinn Abercromby follows his mother supervising work underground on the subway and encounters dragons. His mother is killed. The dragons spread laying waste to the world. Governments helped the destruction by launching a nuclear war. In 2020, Quinn (Christian Bale) leads a group of survivors trying to wait out the dragons in a castle in Northumberland. Then a group of Americans led by Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) show up with a plan to end the nightmare. Quinn is reluctant to let his people fight and even more reluctant to face the origin of the dragon threat.This is a lot fiery dark loud ashen angry action. The singular tone does get monotonous. There isn't any ability to lighten up before diving back into the deep end of the fire pit. The logic of the world is also a bit questionable. It is questionable that the world military couldn't stop the dragons but this ragtag group could. Van Zan doesn't have a magic gun. Both Bale and McConaughey are going rough in this movie. It's a bit too much of the same tone. The best thing about this movie is that they are fighting dragons in the modern world. I'd watch this simply for that. "},{"Title":"Unique post-apocalyptic vision","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christian Bale, Gerard Butler, Izabella Scorupco and Matthew McConaughey shine at the lead of this movie, which is an interesting new take on the post-apocalyptic survival genre. Instead of nuclear war, zombies or ice age we have dragons to blame for pushing humanity back to medieval times. Points for originality, if nothing else.Not to say the film is nothing more than its idea. As stated, the leading actors are all very good and play their roles believably. Bale and McConaughey are especially great in their shared scenes. Two strong-willed leaders putting heads together is always interesting, especially when the two of them are played by such powerhouse actors. It's also good character writing that both of them are quite similar in basic nature yet totally different as leaders. Bale's Quinn is the leader of ordinary men and women. He's cares more about their survival than fighting, whereas McConaughey's Van Zan is a soldier, born and bread, leading a group of soldiers.Where the film falters, unfortunately, is the story. The idea is interesting. The end result of that idea, not so much so. It's your typical bleak and sooty aftermath with bitter survivors, starving children and lots of backstabbing. Van Zam's soldiers gives us a bit of colour and character, but they end up being perhaps a bit too outlandish for them to be completely believable. Quinn's backstory is also a bit too convenient for the film's purposes, which causes the viewer to become disillusioned.In the end I liked this film. Its idea is a lot of fun and if you've ever wanted to see modern military fight dragons, this is about as close as you're going to get. For what it is, it works, but a masterpiece it is not. Go in with the right expectations and you're going to enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Just fantastic entertainment!","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Who would've thought a grown man can enjoy a movie with dragons in it!I'm compelled to review this movie! In fact, this is probably my first movie review ever on IMDb! Rarely do you come across a good action thriller with elements of the fantastic. I think this would be one of those rare movies with a bunch of really talented actors and good acting.The special effects are kept to the minimal and good, which itself is hallmark of a good science fiction movie. And the dragons are totally believable.And like all good science fiction movies, the story is about the people. About surviving against odds, about paternal love, about guts, grit and glory, about heroics, both bold and subtle.I enjoyed the movie, because unlike most Hollywood movies, this one had a many layers. Will certainly watch it again. "}{"Title":"Different But In A Good Way","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragons in the UK ! Who'd have thought such a thing ? Well, it works. Again, the bleak depiction of the environment, blackened with ash, only broken by highlighting the colour of specific items, perhaps reminding us how important colour is in the world, to catch our attention, or show true danger in the form of flames. Denton Van Zan is one of the best characters I've seen in an apocalyptic film. Dangerous to both man and dragon, this man knows no fear, yet loyalty to his men which is returned, and showing he still has a heart when suffering losses to his group. You watch this film and can almost visualise it as a gritty, modern equivalent of Beowulf, with Van Zan basically saying that he is there to kill your monsta ! He has the best lines too. "},{"Title":"Dragon Invasion","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rob Bowman directed this tale of how dragons came to rule the Earth after being accidentally uncovered by an excavation crew who unearthed an egg that hatches a dragon, who leads others to decimate civilization. Twenty years later, Quinn Abercromby(played by Christian Bale) leads a group of survivors in England who are stationed in a castle, doing battle with the dragons. One day, a group of Americans led by Denton Van Zan(played by Mathew McConaughey) claims to have found a way to slay the dragons, and a battle for leadership control ensues, though both men will have to work together to save their groups, and humanity. Good premise, but film is mostly dour, despite superb F/X and performances. Almost works, but comes up short in its storytelling. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I waited a long time to watch this movie because I thought it was going to suck major. It's surprisingly, good. Maybe not epic like Lord of the Rings, but it holds its own for movie night. Basically this is a Godzilla movie done in a western style. If you like Godzilla then you'll love this. And if you're into post-apocalyptic themes mixed medieval references, then you're going to have a decent movie to watch.The dragons look pretty good considering what year this was made. It's the pyrotechnics that make this movie stand out. The flares are amazing. I'm not just talking about the dragon spitting fire, which looks fantastic, but the world itself. Every shot effectively gives the impression that the world has been burned for centuries.Matthew McConaughey gives an awesome performance as the leader of the American dragon slayers. This guy is a killer. It was so out of his normal character that it took me a second to realize it was him. Christian Bale played his expected somber role he's popular for. Matthew stole the show. "},{"Title":"Weak movie, but amazing-looking dragons","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love Dragons. Huge, fire-breathing and dangerous as hell. Sadly, there aren't many good movies about them. Especially Eragon was disappointing. For some reason I haven't seen this one before now, and when I saw Christian Bale was in it, I got exited. First off, The dragons look AMAZING. Every action scene where they fight them are fantastic. You really get how great a threat a huge dragon would have been. These scenes alone make the movie worth watching. And sadly, there aren't much else to get out of it. The plot is very thin. The story is simply not good enough. Actually, there aren't really a plot. And the characters are as anonymous as they could get. You can't relate to any of them, because they haven't got any personalities. They are plain and undeveloped, and you don't get to know them. I hate to say this, but one of the greatest problems I have with this movie is Christian Bale. He is my favorite actor, and most of the movies he star in are amazing. Therefore, it broke my heart to see his performance in this one. It's weird to hear him as British for a change, but it's kind of interesting. But I did not like his performance and his character. It was a huge disappointment for me, as a fan. I'll give it a 6/10, but you can thank the dragons for that. Without them, this is a weak 4. "},{"Title":"Great look, feel and set up but ultimately end feels shortchanged and small in scope.","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie begins well by setting up a type of post-apocalyptic world created and haunted by flying dragons. They work well the reasoning behind the fiery destruction and the characters that form the resistance are interesting. You start to feel the fear and tension in the beginning of the movie and the cold barren location adds to the cold isolated atmosphere. The movie progresses well and new characters appear in the form of trained and technologically gifted Americans lead by the intriguing yet OTT Mcconaughey. It shakes up the narrative positively enough but the mood turns from that of a tense resistance film to straight action, and this is where it falls down. In changing from tension to action you as the viewer really want to see things cranked up with a series of battles culminating into a massive war for the survival of mankind.... This however does not appear and a plot shortcut keeps things low key and underdone near the end. It promises much then cranks up the tempo and it seems to run out of either time, money or effort. It is still a worthy addition to my movie collection but it really could have been a barren epic of human resistance and the battle for survival....it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"A Superior Piece of Sci Fi Fantasy","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This serious piece of sci fi/fantasy work retains its grit and focus on the action thriller, no-nonsense presentation of a dragon plot device that is rather creative and takes the rest of the production from there. There are no really outrageous typical characters one might find it such movies as Mad Max (1979) and its various sequels, Cherry 2000 (1987), The Postman (1997) or Waterworld (1995). The dragons are really more like a stand in for the monstrous wild band of alien lifeforms or bacterial infections in this wasteland. Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey are archetypes that don't abuse their natures for obvious dramatic effect and even the sexual implications usually promoted in such movies is omitted. In many respects, Reign of Fire has strong similarities to the classic Alien (1979) in its retention of the primary interest in the resolution of the dire situation. In some ways, the disaster scene towards the end of the movie was even more true to from than the one in Aliens (1986). "},{"Title":"Interesting Attempt At Trying To Remake The Monster Movie","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It is twenty years in the future, and the planet has been devastated by vicious fire-breathing dragons. The last vestiges of humanity now struggle for survival at remote outposts. In a ruined castle in the English countryside, Quinn is desperately trying to hold together a band of frightened, restless survivors. As a boy, Quinn watched his mother die protecting him from one of the beasts, and is still haunted by the memory. One day, a group of American rogues shows up, led by a brash, tough-guy named Van Zam. He claims to have discovered a way to kill the dragons once and for all, and enlists Quinn's help. But doing so will force Quinn to confront his own frightening memories. This, and Quinn's responsibilities to those that are under his protection, results in a battle of wills between the two men. In the end, events cause them both to realize that they must work together to defeat the monsters--both without and within.I Have Long Since Been A Fan Of This Film Since It Came Out. 9 Years Later I Still Think Its A Good Movie And I Still Give It The Same Rating. Usually Most Movies Decrease In Rating Because You Just Realize Hey Its Not As Good As What I Made It Out To Be. Let Me Start By Saying This Is Not Intellegently Crafted, Its Just A Fun Movie. I Will Say That Matthew McConaughey Is Unrecognisable As His Role Denton Van Zan And Arguablly His Best Role.I Will Also Give That Same Title To Christian Bale's Character Quinn, This Is Without Doubt His Best Role. Some May Argue On Both Accounts But That Is Just My Opinion. As Far As Fun Movies Go This Is One Of The Well Made Ones. I Will Also Say That This Is My Favourite Dragon Movie On The Grounds That Both The Writers And Rob Bowman Knew How To Treat It (Hey If I Was Directing This It Would Be The Exact Same Movie - That Is Coming From Someone Who Has Never Directed A Stage Play Let Alone A Movie).Overall I Think If You Want To See A Movie That Knows How To Treat A Mythology That Is Centuries Old But Is Easily Dismissed By Most Hollywood Filmmakers Then I Say Go Ahead. "},{"Title":"This movie has the best dragon in Hollywood","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Recent Hollywood directors and producers should learn a little about how to use special effects/graphics to sparkle user's imagination from this movie. The director used the special effects to tell the story than to just show how great the technicians are. I feel the current scifi movies are giving too much importance to the looks of the movie than the affect that it should have on the audience. Reign of Fire gets 10 out of 10 because of the following three basic reasons that recent fantasy/scifi movies are missing or having 1. No over elongated boring backdrop story for the dragons 2. Superb performance by the lead actors Matthew McConaughey, Christian Bale and Izabella Scorupco 3. Minimum use of special effects or graphics where it is necessary. The movie looks as real as any word war 2 based movie "},{"Title":"Didn't Drag-on (not very original, I know)","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a bit like a christmas present, one that has been wrapped up in expensive paper and finished with elaborate bows. Once opened it was going to be hard to live up to the packaging, but you still enjoyed playing with it none the less.Before getting the RoF DVD I checked out the IMDB notice boards (as usual) to get a 'feel' for it and was disappointed that there were so many negative reviews, probably 'cos I was looking forward to watching it so much. However, I didn't let them put me off and in the end I was glad.Yes, there are gaping plot holes, mucho macho posturing, corny dialogue and less screen time for the dragons than you were led to believe by the trailers, however, the hour and a half zipped by quickly. Belief was very much suspended, after all it was a film about dragons taking over the worrrlldddd. The sets and effects were superb, a labour of love I suspect, though inevitably they tend to dominate as charactarisation is swept away in CGI enhanced, fire-breathing frenzy.Now to the dragons (or lack of them). Both realistic and menacing, they fit into the post-apocalyptic landscape perfectly. As for time on screen, perhaps a little bit more, yes, but I thought whenever any character stepped outside of the castle, the director managed to convey the dragon's latent threat extremely adeptly. Too many of these creatures chasing humans around may have led to another Aliens clone.On the whole, a very enjoyable, post-apocalyptic, dragon-infested romp. 7/10  "},{"Title":"I love the smell of Napalm in the morning","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I would say this was a colossal waste of time and money but I with all it's flaws I still found it fun. The effects and photography were first rate. I could tell where the money was spent. McCouanghy did a good impression of mixing Brando and Duvall from Apocalypse Now. Christian Bale plays our everyman hero. Izabella plays our roughed up pilot with model looks. It's all pretty cliche so I'm sure most of you know what happens. The plot and storyline are so full of holes it's not worth discussing. This is not original and certainly not Academy material but worth at least one viewing.  "}{"Title":"Solid worthwhile entertainment","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Respectable film for the genre. People who expect an Ingmar Bergman or Orson Welles need to take a little reality trip.I actually liked the film much more than the trailer promised. The trailer looked quite ordinary (other than the visuals) and I almost didn't watch it. There is nothing spectacular about 'Reign of Fire' however it has good casting, acting, visuals and quite a good pace. Given that I don't think it deserves the roasting some are giving it.Those that complain about implausable elements in films of this type are also the ones that say the same things about Road Runner cartoons. Sad really. "},{"Title":"Great For A Sunday Afternoon","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a cheeseball special effects fest that is a great time killer if you have time to kill. I recommend it only if you want to kill some time and brain cells in the process. Here are the reasons (spoilers herein) (1) The computer generated dragons are pretty neat. (2) Christian Bale did pretty good as the main scarred survivor. (3) The scene with the dragon attacking the castle was very poetic. (4) There was a tinge of a medieval mentality going through this film. (5) The mixture of recent, old-fashioned, and ancient weaponry fit together perfectly to give an idea of how combat flying, fire-breathing reptiles. (6) The Brits and The Americans fighting amongst themselves showed that cultural differences will breed a bunch of dissent and angst in situations where survival is at stake. (7) Amongst the Brits, differing views of survival were seen. Seven reasons gives a score of seven.The downers in the film were (1) Matthew McConaughey as the tooth and nail American commander. He doesn't strike me as the tooth and nail type (watch The Wedding Planner and you'll understand). (2) The Americans are portrayed as if they are a bunch of marauders. Stereotyping anything sucks and it should be stopped. (3) The story had gaping plot holes and lots of tedious dialogue. The writing overall was lacking in many spots. Overall, this is a film that feels like cheesecloth. Watch it if you want to kill some brain cells but I suggest many other titles. Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"Original is the theme here...","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't have much to say. Most movies I like I tend to not to try and break down. If you like dragons, darker themes and that isolation feel (like in Waterworld) and you like to think to yourself that is the most fuel efficient helicopter (you'll know what I mean when you see it) go then, see it. ;)I gave it an 8 for the original story.  Things could have been better handled, but being the genre that it was, I think it got the entire plot off pretty well.  I'm buying this one.   "},{"Title":"Nice looking and good idea, only let down by some dodgy dialogue","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked the idea for this film, of groups of people trying to survive in a dragon scorched world.  It was very well executed to take this ludicrous fantasy and apply all the rules of logic etc to it.I also thought that the film looked amazing, particularly the dragons, with the effects only let down by some shoddy looking explosions at times.The only thing that let the film down was the cliched and sometimes pointless dialogue, especially from the Matthew McConaughey character. "},{"Title":"The worst film Of 2002? I think not!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, this ain't amazing..... But look, for every Close encounters.... there has to be a Plan 9 from outerspace!I'll happily admit that this is bubblegum cinema at it's best, pure and unadulterated candy floss. But I can live with it.Okay, saw the poster and thought YES!! Independence day in england, with Dragons! Burn London, Burn! Safe to say I was disappointed. But what I did get was a mad max style fight for survival.The dragons looked good and the acting was acceptable, if not sterotyping with Bale's 'pie-n-mash' cockney and mathew mc's 'Texan-gas-station-attendent'.A more than acceptable film if you're not looking for an oscar winner. Oh, and the starwars story was more than worth the admission fee alone!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   I meant to see Reign of Fire at the movies, but instead rented it on DVD last night. I liked it. I have read other reviews and people have been saying that it was a waste of money to make and a bad movie. Given that it has an M rating (PG-13 in the US) they were limited in what they could do, but I still found it appealing and quite satisfactory. I do think that it's set too close in the future, but they made a realistic post holocaust movie. The plot is basically this - A twelve year old boy named Quinn disturbed a dragon in a railway tunnel that his mother helped to construct. Twenty years later, after the dragons have spawned and reduced most of the earth to rubble, Quinn and a handful of survivors have taken refuge in a castle in Northumberland. They have a life of caution and hiding until Denton Van Zan, an impulsive militia leader and his troop of Dragon Slayers arrive.  With the help of the Slayers, Quinn and his people finally have a chance to reclaim the earth. I wouldn't say that this is the greatest movie ever, but it is quite enjoyable, if you don't mind a bit of violence from the dragons(but nothing traumatic). Good Plot, Good Acting, Good Special Effects - 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"it's good, it's bad, it's ugly","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree this movie leaves you with a lot of questions. But not the way really bad movies do so that nothing really makes sense and you just get angry because of it.ROF has some holes in the plot but it's fun trying to fill them for yourself. Just try accepting the fact that it doesn't tell you everything because it's details you don't necessarily need.I couldn't imagine Matthew McConaughey playing in ROF but when I first saw him I couldn't believe how COOL he can be. He looks like he just jumped out of the classic beat'em up game Street Fighter. Who needs a character like his' to be developed further and further. He is just cool. Great fight scene with Christian Bale!The scene which showed where the money for the movie came from was when the glory Americans arrived to save the day/earth and brought fruits for the desperate children. What a joke. At least they didn't survive the next 30 minutes and had to admit they failed this time (probably to not to loose the European audience). "},{"Title":"Dark and gloomy","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a bad film overal, but the feeling I got from it was dark and gloomy. It's fun of dank underground holes and the like and you only see the sun at the end. I found it rather depressing, even with the good ending.Not bad, though. I'm not saying it's the top film of the year, but it's not a flop either.  "},{"Title":"Wasted","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a movie that has so much potential, showed so much promise, but fails to deliver leaving the audience unsatisfied.  Even more worrying is hearing the director talk about it being a scary movie, whereas it is firmly rooted in the action/sci-fi genre.  And it also loses one point for the worst closing line ever. "},{"Title":"Wow great it is","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thaught to see just another dragon movie in a row,but MAN was i wrong !!! Great story line and very very nice special effects.Also a little place for romance and a few jokes through the movie. Great Great movie to see Greets El Loco  "}{"Title":"Wow great it is","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thaught to see just another dragon movie in a row,but MAN was i wrong !!! Great story line and very very nice special effects.Also a little place for romance and a few jokes through the movie. Great Great movie to see Greets El Loco  "},{"Title":"Wow great it is","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought to see just another dragon movie in a row,but MAN was i wrong !!! Great story line and very very nice special effects.Also a little place for romance and a few jokes through the movie. Great Great movie to see Greets El Loco  "},{"Title":"sci-fi  vs. fantasy?","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the biggest failure of this film is that it is not really fantasy, nor is it sci-fi.when you watch a movie, you put your mind in special mode for that type of movie. so if it is fantasy, you'll buy the magic arrow can kill dragon theme easily, but you will be less convinced if you had to believe that  all advanced weapons couldn't kill a dragon, but a grenade arrow canI am not sure If I made my point clear, but the movie suffers from weird jumps from fantasy to sci-fi, back and fort.I think it would have been a great movie if it were either pure fantasy (delete the parts with the modern weapons) or pure sci-fi (change the ending)I liked the dragon special effects, much better than the ones in Dungeons&Dragons movie.overall, the movie could have been much better . "},{"Title":"Missing something","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The trailers looked great for this movie. Good plot, good actors, good special effects. Somehow though, and I can't put my finger on it, there is something missing. One time viewing, any more would be a bore. "},{"Title":"The Road Warrior meets Alien3","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Pretty good Sci-Fi flick. In the vein of Pitch Black and the last 2 Alien movies.  Should've been R rated.  That could have given the director/actors more room to really explore the true terror these dragons were inflicting and could've been more graphic/dark.  Not enough dragon sequences.  Also, would've been much more plausible had it taken place in the 1930's or 1940's.  That would help explain how we weren't able to deal the dragons. Also the much overused ending of a small band of humans with almost no weapons left being able to defeat the supreme enemy - in this case the Bull dragon - would work better in 1942 as opposed to 2020. I give it a 7 out of 10.  Definitely worth watching.      "},{"Title":"Der Film ist schlechter, als im Trailer angepriesen!!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was interested because I saw the Trailer.But in the end I was a little bit depressed. There are lots of details and informations missing in the movie. Some scenes are useless. "},{"Title":"Great for eye candy, not so great for story","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, the story was weak and the ending just as bad... but I did love the dragons! The FX were awesome and as a dragon enthusiast I enjoyed the attempt to explain their existance and the science behind them. I would definatly have put more dragons in the film, they were the best actors. Too bad they lost.... "},{"Title":"Could have been a stonker of a film, but ended up a real stinker.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can you say about Reign of Fire? When I heard about it I was very excited. When I saw the poster, I was even more enthusiastic. When I saw the film, I was terribly disappointed.The poster was the start of it. It clearly depicted an Apache helicopter and a dragon in the same bit of sky. In the film, there are plenty of dragons, but not one Apache. Just one lame average chopper. My hopes of an aerial dogfight between an Apache and a dragon went unfulfilled. And I think that's why I was disappointed. After that, it wasn't hard to pick holes in the film.For a start, we're led to believe that the big male dragon in the film is the one released by construction workers from beneath London. The first dragon, so to speak. But we're also told how all other dragons are female. So where did they come from? Did the male dragon dig them out? And how did the dragon/s get buried beneath the earth in the first place? Did they bury themselves? Or was it a bunch of mediaeval knights that did it? How did they survive underground?Then there's the dragons themselves. Apparently they eat ash, which is why they burn everything in sight. I'm no nutritionist, but I doubt ash has enough energy value to sustain something that's 30 feet long, even if it didn't fly. And there's the fire breathing aspect, which we're told is the result of two glands which produce chemicals which react with each other to produce fire. I can accept that, but if so, all dragons should produce fire that is equally intense. But the male dragon's fire is clearly hotter and more intense than the others. In a pure fantasy setting, we can suspend disbelief and believe in dragons without knowing anything about them, but when you mix genres, like they have here, and then try and explain things in a half-hearted way, it just ends up with you thinking Hang on a minute, that's not right...There is also the army, which apparently doesn't have concerns such as where its next tank of fuel comes from.Then there's the all dragons are female, except for the one big male. If it was as easy as killing one dragon (which the american army can kill without too much effort), how in hell did the world get destroyed in the first place?All in all, a film which missed out on being a real stonker of a film and ended up being a real stinker. "},{"Title":"Man vs. dragon story proves successful","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Matthew MaConnahagh and Christian Bale give good performances as two foes coming together to wipe out the dragon race. The start of the dragon race all starts off when young Quinn stumbles upon a dragon cave and awakes a dragon. While he and his mother try to escape, his mother is killed by that dragon. Now, 20 years later when the Earth is dominated by a race of dragons, Quinn (Bale) has become the leader of  survivors from England. When Van Zan (MaConnahagh) and his group of surviving Americans come to Quinn's fort, Quinn must make the decision to trust Van Zan, or kill him. When he finally finds out why they have come to his fort, Van Zan asks for men. However, Quinn says no and sticks with his answer. But Van Zan gets men anyway and Quinn makes the decision to go along and try to eliminate the race of dragons once and for all. The special effects are a real treat and the story is interesting. It's full of excitement and action. Although this movie got negative reviews, I strongly disagree with them. This movie is a non-stop ride that leaves you begging for more. Great fun*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Indeed, the only thing worse than dragons is americans.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise is enjoyable, the effects are great, and the action is OK. Too bad they had to put a brigade of john-wayne-esque american heros in the film to ruin it.  It was actually going along quite well until those loud-mouthed boneheads appeared.  Problems with the general plot (of how, dragons that dissappeared because thier food was exhausted, managed to stay alive below London for millions of years - and come awake the instant a human touched them... and then only one male exists on the planet) can be distracting. Far worse, the M.M. character - not sure if its the screenplay or the acting that did that - though the screenplay should be blamed for putting them in there to begin with.Its a good enough to occupy a couple hours of time. "}{"Title":"There is only one thing worse than a dragon .... American's","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very enjoyable film, McConaughey is your average OTT American military man (always chewing a cigar etc), Bale's cockney accent is cringeworthy at best but they are two minor faults to an otherwise great film.The locations are great, the dragons are superb, the acting is ok but its a great film and one that I will be definitely be watching again and would recommend anyone else to do the same.Special note goes to the special effects man, some of the best fire effects I have seen in any film. "},{"Title":"HOT movie","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't care what the Euro-trash commenter before me said, I think this movie is awsome. It puts a new shine on the old dragon slaying movies. This movie isn't about us saving the Brits asses(like in WWII), but about the two of us cooperating to extinguish a common enemy. But enough about that, the movie is action packed, has a good plot, not great, but good, and it is not a hard movie to follow. Although it does suffer a tad in character development, it is still 10 times the movie that Mulon Rouge could ever hope to be.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable 90 minutes.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In reading some of the other comments on this movie people are talking about plot holes, bad accents, and lack of direction. To those who feel that way shame on you. If we were talking about The Godfather, The Shawshank Redemption, Or even Lord of The Rings those types of comments and thoughts would be justified, not that I feel that way about any of those movies, but not for a movie like Reign Of Fire. Some movies are made to be thought about and others to just watch and have fun. Reign Of Fire is one of the ones to just watch and have fun. Does it deserve any awards, no. Does it take itself to seriously, no. Can you watch it and just enjoy the special effects, sound, and premise, yes. So the bottom line go to Blockbuster, rent it, sit down and don't think just watch and you will have an enjoyable 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie i thought","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is different in the fact it's about dragons and their rule of man kind.The acting was incredable for this film and the special effects were top of the line. The plot was a lil iffy but thats ok cuase its about human survival and not the dragons.( The dragons were very well done CGI and creature effects) It's a good movie and its very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire lacks an outstanding direction!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are some reasons why this movie is not so bad, firstly there are good visual effects, good actors, especially Christian Bale who was great in The Portrait of a Lady. There are also dragons, perhaps the most fabulous beasts in the world and there is also fire, maybe the most beautiful and terrifying element of earth; however, an outstanding direction is missing, so the assembly of these things just doesn't make any sense. It's an assembly of filmed ideas that are not believable at all; perhaps that's why it was a box office failure.  The story begins In London in the near future, where a species of dragons asleep for centuries awakens to dominate the earth. Only a few brave people will challenge them and will try to get rid of them.  Spoiler, the ending is very predictable, because before seeing this movie we can tell that the dragons are going to get killed in the end It's not a bad movie, it's entertaining though, and I really liked seeing Mr. Bale's performance as a man struggling with dragons and frustrated because they killed his mom. I'd not recommend this one to people who don't like fantasy and predictable movies, but I do recommend it if you just want to see some fairly good visual effects! 6/10  "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Expected","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Seeing the trailers alone made me seriously doubt this movie.  Not being a fan of D&D and other dragon-oriented works, I expected plot and character development to be sacrificed for special effects and cheesy-ness.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I'm not saying this is Godfather-caliber filmmaking, but it was beautiful and the acting was beyond solid.  I always enjoy watching Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale has definitely earned my respect.  The special effects were seamless and the plot delivered just fine.  This movie is a lot of fun, despite the fact it takes itself so seriously.  Maybe that's what makes it so enjoyable.I think a number of the more negative reviews I've seen here reflect high expectations that I personally would have been uncomfortable having, as I consider myself a realist. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough for its duration, but it should have been more.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  6 out of 10Reign of Fire has undoubtedly the coolest premise I've heard all year a post-apocalyptic future where the remaining humans must fight for survival against man-eating, fire-breathing dragons that have laid destruction upon the planet.  The movie's poster only further pumped me up, featuring the sight of flying dragons in mid-air battle with black hawk choppers.  Yup, it has all the makings of a wild, exhilarating action/adventure.  I'm still waiting for that movie.Instead, perhaps because of a mid-level budget (though IMDB states the production costs were around 90 million), we get a relatively small-scale story that focuses on a group of survivors in England, led by the determined Christian Bale.  Along comes American Matthew McConnaughey and his band of soldiers turned dragon slayers to even up the odds.  It's unfortunate the movie's premise never gels into the rollicking all-out man vs. dragon battle to the death you expect, but there are a lot of things to enjoy.  Rob Bowman's direction is above average, Bale and McConnaughey deliver strong performances, the dragon effects are excellent, and the action scenes we do get are first-rate (three fight scenes in all, adding up to maybe fifteen minutes).  I suspect the movie will grow a cult following in the years to come, thanks to its premise and irony-absent presentation.  Reign of Fire most definitely takes itself very seriously.  The movie is fairly enjoyable, but don't be surprised if you ask yourself why there aren't more dragons.   "},{"Title":"A very disappointing movie","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this because of happy memories of Dragonslayer, and in terms of FX it did not disappoint.  But the trailer, which implied that there was some credible progression in the dragons' takeover and not just the discovery of one male and then a survival existence, was a complete phony. Christian Bale was horrid as a prematurely aged, nose-broken ghost of his youthful self, and I sure hope those are not real tattoos on the naturally very handsome Matthew McConnaughey.   "},{"Title":"This movie was tooo incomplete to enjoy","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to agree with many comments posted here previously. This story had the potential to be great...potential to combine great technology and special effects with an EXCITING story, that would, if nothing less, be thrilling at times and a fun movie to watch. SPOILERS AHEAD Unfortunately, even from the very first scenes, I was angered by how dumb this movie was. I was excited to see ALICE KRIGE listed in the credits..but yet, a talented actress like herself only managed about 5 lines in the beginning. Also...I could have sworn the movie BEGAN in 2084, but then flashed forward to something like 2020?? For 10 minutes, my husband and myself tried to figure out what was going on...if Quinn was the little boy...yada yada...The dragon effects were OK...not as disappointing as some special effects recently. Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale had a great relationship in the film...could have been expanded if they had completely left out the character ALEX...she was just blonde filler. This movie had so many gaps, I found myself trying to put them together. Whenever watching a movie is WORK like that...you know something is wrong. "},{"Title":"Exciting Science Fiction Drama","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this story, dragons are actually real creatures that have roamed the earth in the past, but have retreated into a state of dormancy.  Underground drilling stirs them to life and they emerge to the surface to find life is especially good with a rich food supply in a teeming human population.  We do not see this in this movie; our main story is set among a community cowering in the ruins of an old castle turned into a bunker.  It is long after the dragons have spread over the planet leaving human existence in ruins.  Times are tough, but a change comes when a troop of armored nomads come to the community with the claim that they can kill dragons.This movie is a generally worth while experience.  It is technically excellent with superb cinematography, special effects and sets.  The performances are occasionally weak and the script occasionally sloppy, but for the VHS or DVD viewer it is, in the end, a satisfying movie.  "}{"Title":"Just a quick addition","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead) Mediocre plot at best, especially the only one male dragon part is just plainly ridiculous. But, the worst plot mistake After ca. 5 minutes into the film, you see each of the workers getting a can of beer, and it is Budweiser ! Honestly, Europe is sitting on top of hundreds of good beers, why in the world would they drink Bud ? Product placement is one thing, but British workers drinking Bud out of cans is just stupid. "},{"Title":"Truly lukewarm","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It speaks volumes about this movie that after my wife and I finished watching it, we just couldn't believe anyone could have made this movie so poorly. We looked blankly at each other and then ran the special features quickly to get some explanation for the cool looking pile of dragon poop we just saw. Believe me, my wife is not half the geek I am, so she was only curious in the morbid way some people are when passing the scene of a fatal car accident. She could not equate the look and the feel of the wreck of Reign of Fire.It had the potential to be a terrifying movie, and it looks very dark. Its premise is Mad Max nightmarish. The cast is at least passable, if not full of high calibre potential. (Personally, I think Christian Bale is as underutilized an actor of his generation as you get nowadays.) In short, the film had so much going for it.The director of this movie freely admitted he was interested in getting audiences to suspend their disbelief and just be scared. Watching him talk about Reign of Fire, I don't think he cared whether or not he was telling a story that made sense. The plot has more holes than the wings of the bull dragon seen in the second half. The movie looks great but feels totally fake because the *story*, not the special effects, is Velveeta quality cheese. Seeing that the movie at the time of this writing has only a few goofs listed in imdb.com tells me that many people did not want to bother seeing this movie more than once to check continuity, or that they simply did not care enough about it to list its ton of faults. Wait until you don't have to actually pay money to view it if you have to watch it at all. "},{"Title":"interesting concept","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  original postapocalyptic scenario.  excellent dragon animation; only one instance of really bad bluescreening.  also interesting to see a few trek faces -- alice krige and siddig el fadil.  definitely worth a rental; had it been marketed more effectively, it may have made it in the theaters.movie & pop culture buffs will get a kick of all the genre self-references. "},{"Title":"Impressive story but some major plot holes -- SPOILERS","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  We are used to seeing dragons in far away lands, threatening princesses or medieval kingdoms.  Well, get ready to change your view of these ancient creatures.Dragons, the cause of the extinction of the dinosaurs, have been in slumber for centuries.  (As a previous review pointed out, why no fossel record of them is just one of several major plot holes that I see in the story.) With the reawakening of the only male of the species, all hell breaks loose on earth.  Dragons, we learn, live on ash, and produce fire by secreting liquid from two glands in their mouth.  When these two liquids mix, you have instant napalm which is then ejected from the dragon's mouth.  Within 10 years, humanity is reduced to small pockets fighting to survive as the onslaught of the dragons continue.In this setting, we find Christian Bale leading a group of adults and children in a run down castle stuck out in the middle of nowhere.  (Maybe it's just me, but if I was afraid of being attacked by creatures that ruled the sky, why keep myself and my people holed up in a castle with no real defenses?  And what's with the garden being so far away from the castle?) Into the delicate balance that Bale has formed with his people marched Matthew McConaughey.  Gone are his golden locks and good-boy looks from pervious films.  This McConaughey is dark, buffed, shaved head, and covered in tatoos.  McConaughey plays a US citizen who leads a group of dragon fighters who managed to get a plane across the Atlantic and landed in a field nearby Bale's castle.  Their goal is to get to London to destroy the one male that is populating the species (more on this later).Other than the incredible dragon effects, the weight of the story is strongest when you view the interaction between Bale and McConaughey. Both are leaders but both have different styles of leadership.  Bale is leader by default.  He is rather uncharasmatic and leads simply because no one else seems to want the job.  McConaughey leads by example, and by his own inner fire to see the beasts totally destroyed.  During their interaction, we see some signs of story growth.  After McConaughey's team has been destroyed by a dragon attack, he is left with just himself, his pilot and Bale to sneak into London, find the big Bull, and destroy it.  They have one axe, three crossbows, three arrows, and a couple of rifles.  With an obvious blue screen attack, McConaughey gets eaten by the dragon early in the fight. This leaves Bale to finish him off.  With the great Bull dragon dead, the species will die out.The focus of the dialogue between McConaughey and Bale is on leadership...which has the best plan for the future of their peoples and how to merge them into one strong group.  Since both leaders loose most of their followers in two different dragon attacks, the question of which leadership type if best is left unanswered.  One could argue that Bale's was the best since he survied the attach, but this argument falls when one remembers how McConaughey died.Plot holes involving the dragons are abundant.  For example, McConaughey believes that the dragons reproduce in the same way as fish.  The female lays eggs and they are fertalized by the one male.  However, this view is contradicted by Bale when he pulls out a dragon egg from a dead female and inside the egg is a dragon embryo.  Bale never bothers to share this information with McConaughey.  Why?Also, the theory that only one male is populating the species does not have much weight when you consider one question...how does this one male keep other males from being born?  If you say that female dragons can only have female babies, then where did the one male come from?  To spend so much time on developing the relationship between the two major characters, and such expense in developing the dragons, to not answer these basic questions makes the movie empty.As a character study in leadership, see the film.  For a fun time and great special effects, see the film.  For a complete story that will answer questions that it asks, see Dragonslayer. "},{"Title":"Not So Bad    Give It A Chance","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to give a movie like 'Reign Of Fire', released in 2002, credit immediately for trying to make the antagonist Mobile home sized, flying, fire breathing dragons.  Visually, it is a very impressive and fascinating movie, exacting emotion from it's stark yet detailed sets and landscapes laid waste by the ash hunting flying double wides.  I nearly tounge kissed the screen when they showed the burning Paris.  (Hopefully the dragons feasted on bellyfulls of Parisian waiters.)  The movie really succeeds at testing your ability to ride an imaginative 'end of the world' scenario. If you can accept the existance of such creatures and their dominace of the world, then you can enjoy the movie that the director lays out in front of you.  Performances are good.  Matthew McConaughey-you're creepy in this film is a wild cigar stump chomping maniac.  Nice tattoo.  Nice bald head. Nice job taking a roll against character.   He's like his character from 'Frailty' on an armageddon halting bourbon and blow bender.   The other actors work in this film to row the boat of disbelief through 101 minutes of genre blending fun with Christian Bale and Matt McC. cracking the whip. Attack a dragon, with c-4, and a battle axe!  Oh sure... what.. no light-sabers!?  Good fun, but don't think to hard about it.  Enjoy it for what is was meant to be and don't try to compare 'Reign Of Fire' to reality. The only question you should have in mind when considering 'Reign of Fire' is What should we watch just for fun tonight.  I'll give it a nine for originality, a six for acting, a nine for visually creativity, and an eight for overall enjoyment.  Thanks for listening...   "},{"Title":"As undernourished as those ragged-winged dragons","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood never ceases to amaze me.  Matthew McConaughey can't act. Gregg Chabot and Kevin Peterka can't write.  Director Rob Bowman may have peaked too soon with Dark Shadows and Alien Nation.  And yet this crap gets made. Why?There is absolutely no story.  The characters are thin and indistinct. The dialog is abysmal.  Even the annoyingly shifted color balance is a pitiable attempt to make a silk purse of a sow's ear, with apologies to sow's ears everywhere.The best opportunity in this turd was Alice Krige, who didn't even make it past the first act, and to squander her on so meaningless a role or film, while even remotely imagining that McConaughey has any more to offer than his CG co-stars is almost as bad as thinking you can make a movie without story, characters, growth and conflict beyond the bang bang dragon shoots that don't nearly live up to the hype.Skip this one.  It is as undernourished as those ragged-winged dragons.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie; it was a lot of fun to watch and well acted.  I liked that the writers didn't feel compelled to make a statement, except about the hunger to survive. A fine movie, a lot of fun.  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I don't know where to begin... As many other reviewers have stated, the story has holes. But then again, most do. The writer expects you to think about the story instead of just absorbing it, which is reasonable in this case. There aren't wild assumptions or anything that requires an extensive imagination, just an IQ above 65.I found this movie entertaining... until the last 10 minutes. I felt completely let down to the ending. It was as though they ran out of money/ studio time to finish telling the story, and just decided to finish it in one afternoon. If you really love dragons, go see it... It'll probably p*** you off at the end, but there are some cool visuals. But if you are a fan of good movies, this is NOT one to waste your time with. "},{"Title":"Christian Bale's bad english accent???????","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As for the poster of accent alert, I don't know exactly what his complaint with Bales' accent is, because Bale is English (from Wales, actually, and I believe that's still in England) To my knowledge he still lives in England, and in interviews he has a very thick English accent. So I guess saying that he has a bad english accent would be akin to saying McConaughey has a bad American accent.As for the movie, it's rollicking good time as long as you don't ask a lot of questions. There are a lot of things taking place on the screen (besides killer dragons) that just aren't plausible enough for us to suspend our disbelief and buy into the dragon crisis. But that's only if you start asking questions and thinking. If you just enjoy it for the big budget B movie it is, it a great time. Also, McConaughey is just great as the crazy American. Completely wild eyed and over the top, he really makes this film.Best line of the filmEnvy the country that needs heroes! Pity the country that needs 'em!-McConaughey, to the Brits after he and his fellow Americans killed the dragon "},{"Title":"Talk of plot holes!...","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't really understand why they budget a squillion dollars for the props and scenery and effects, and don't bother into a decent script. Just let's be merciful and skip the acting (which was just a bit bad), but really, you can't forgive them in making you build up such good expectations and then ruin it all with poorly defined, poorly logical and totally arbitrary conclusions, with no respect whatsoever for the IQ of the public.SPOILERS FROM HERE ON (but really, don't bother to see it)How did the dragons spread out of UK? Really, you expect me to buy there's ONE male in ALL THE WORLD? No born males? Plus, dragons are born small and die big, right? So they are OLD! Five trillion gazillion females around, and NOT A SINGLE ONE three months after daddy died? Maybe they got depressed for not being laid? Maybe they got depressed in seeing the movie (more likely). The only funny thing saving a bit the movie on the front of original ideas is the two guys, staging Star Wars for the kids. No, I changed my mind. It is bad cause it illudes you and make you think you are going to see an intelligent movie. Which is not. "}{"Title":"Rather disappointing","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADI was really looking forward to watching this movie, but instead of a satisfying story of mankind fighting dragons, I was left with a million questions as to just what the heck was going on.The movie took a stab at explaining how ancient dragons awoke and began destroying the earth; breeding faster than mayflies.  What I couldn't figure out is exactly what they ate.  Sometimes they were shown scarfing down a human, but the dialog kept talking about them eating ashes resulting from the fires they started.  Huh?The other thing is that the humans were rather openly living, growing crops, and moving about.  Why didn't the dragons put an end to that?Sorry, but I wouldn't recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Excellent Fantasy/Sci-Fi movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is an excellent movie, with great performances and special effects and none of the plot holes previous reviewers are complaining about.  A previous reviewer posed multiple questions all of which are answered in the movie.  Some of his questions I'll answer here ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***.  Where do the Americans get their weapons, vehicles and ammunition, but mostly the fuel for their engines? The Americans were a National Guard Unit from Kentucky which explains the weapons, vehicles and ammunition and Van Zan explains they also had fuel, but lost most of it.  Why did they leave America? Because of their theory of the single male dragon and they knew the appearance of the dragons began in London. How did they get here? Van Zan explains they repaired a National Guard transport plane and flew to Europe. What do they live on? Same as any military force K-rations. Why do they want to go to London? Again to kill the male dragon.  Why do they and the dragon come back to the castle? This is also explained in the movie, Quinn tells Van Zan the last group that attacked the male dragon was destroyed and the dragon tracked/traced them back to their base and destroyed it also. When Van Zan army is wiped out, he realizes the dragon will continue on to the castle and he heads back to help.  I highly recommend this movie despite all the negative reviews, but you must pay close attention or view it a second time. "},{"Title":"Dragons & Action great mixture, great fun","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Could find SPOILERS through all the text... You've been warned P)I've just arrived from watching Reign of Fire and I must say it has achieved the entertainment level I expected. I consider myself as a person who is quite a fan of the dragon thing I find those mythological creatures very frightening and interesting at the same time, and we don't have to forget that it's one of the mythologies that exists around the world, from Europe to China. Anyway, back to the review. Reign of Fire happens in England, the year 2020 AD, and the Earth has been completely destroyed by hundreds of gigantic fire-breathing dragons. The human survivors hide in fortresses with deep tunnels to shelter from the flying menace. One of those survivor communities is lead by Quinn (Christian Bale), who is the responsible of this dragon incident.Then, a group of americans (lead by Van Zan -Matthew McConaughey-)armed with tanks arrived to Quinn's fortress and proposes to hunt the dragons and finish the nightmare.As you can see, Reign of Fire combines the post-apocalyptic genre (like Mad Max) and dragons, and with success. The film is pure entertainment, a bit B-Series in some moments, but the acting is incredibly great( Bale and McGonaughey fit perfect in respective characters), and the dragons are brilliantly created, very good CGI and sound effects. Those are the two things that make Reign of Fire a very entertaining movie.Does it have flaws? Of course. ^_^ Sometimes, the action slow down, and you could also find the film quite repetitive after an hour. But I enjoyed it a lot (maybe the ending was a bit disappointing), because of the great acting, the great CGI and the good atmosphere! 7/10Worth the look, but if you're not a dragon fan... be careful. P "},{"Title":"Dragons... and that's ALL","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dragons, and that's ALL this movie has to offer. The way the dragons are behaving, flying, the sounds... it's all really cool and really ok. But now comes what's not-so-cool-and-certainly-NOT-ok!!!1) The dialogues are worser than worse. I mean, hllo, this is a movie for people who are aged 13+. In my eyes, they aren't kids anymore. You SHOULD be able to write a bit more catchy and less boring dialogues than this, right?2) Where's the point? Killing dragons is easy, but you cannot expect the audience to be interested in that topic for TWO hours???LITTLE SPOILER  Here's what I don't get  when young Quinn releases a medieval dragon in one of the deep underground caves, it is clear that for the moment that dragon was the only living dragon on earth. But years later, those fire breathing, ash-eating, flying monsters are all over the place! Ok, ok we're nearly there... Hang on. So one moment, Van Zan tells Quinn that there's one male dragon which impregnates all the females (so, all the other dragons are females ). Okay, if THAT male was the one that Quinn discovered, how can there be an army of dragons??? He can't have possibly laid an egg or so? That's a suitable theory for sci-fi classics as the Alien Saga, but DRAGONS? I suppose if is was a FEMALE, it might have been believable, yet, she would have to carry impregnated eggs, thus, eggs containing DRAGON EMBRYOS. And since we don't know any of this, I think it is the biggest goof of the movie.OR I might be really wrong...Anyway, if you like dragons, buy the DVD/VHS at any rate.  "},{"Title":"It does have potential","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is an interesting plot, and I think they did a fairly good job. But it could have been so much more! The actors to a very good job, and I was impressed by Bale's performance. The thing that bugs me about this film are various plot holes and such. The main goal here is to slay the male dragon, meaning that there's only one, so he can't impregnate all the females. I just have one question; Do none of these females give birth to male dragons? There are a lot of great effects, the dragons look great, and the actors DO deliver a great performance. But the plot is lacking, dialogue cliche and I have a problem with the just one male concept. But in spite of that it does have entertainment value. 3/6 "},{"Title":"I just drooled","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted the film was pretty lame, but I couldn't help but drool over Matthew McConeghy and Christian Bale.  Matthew shouldn't have gone bald for the role, but still he's hot.  I just thought that a movie about slaying dragons wouldn't be that great -- I was right.  It lacked a good story.  I watched it in September and I have no idea what the actual story was.  All I know now is that they killed some dragons and everyone was happy.  I guess I would recommend renting it if there's nothing else at the video store. But if you are a die hard Matthew fan, you might be disappointed. Just a warning. "},{"Title":"What was he thinking?","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Total waste of an excellent actor!  Christian Bale was not thinking when he signed up for this role.  After a GREAT performance in American Psycho he should have signed up for a movie that had a decent plot, or at least one that was well written.  In my opinion Reign of Fire was poorly written.  The movie's plot had immense potential which was wasted by trying to introduce the essence of 'humanity' in it.  The director tried to make us connect with the kids in the movie and with the rest of the community but he failed miserably.  By the end of the movie I did not care for ANY of the characters.  Its a shame they did not get charcoaled! "},{"Title":"A very unique take on a very familiar fantasy theme.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Take a minute to think about how many movies you've seen or know about that deal with human oppression by a dominant non-human/humanoid entity.  I myself can think of several right off my head; The Time Machine, The Matrix, Planet of the Apes, Battlefield Earth, and it goes on.And to many movie watchers, Reign of Fire is simply another name added to that list.  But after watching it, my attitude toward this film completely changed.  I watched it in a theater, and just watched it again on DVD (Disney put a DTS audio track on the NTSC DVD!  YES!!!).  This film features an amazing display of technical digital prowess combined with a plot that portrays a human element in the resistance toward the vicious Dragons.Without spoiling the plot for those who haven't yet watched the movie, this film features very convincing performances by the entire starring cast and, as written earlier, dazzlingly brilliant visual effects.It's a fantasy film, no doubt, but it's much more entertaining than most of the other movies that fit in the same genre.If you haven't watched the movie, at least rent it.  After renting it, you can pick up a copy at Circuit City or Best Buy for twenty bucks.  And it has a DTS audio track! "},{"Title":"This movie needs a sequel","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" SPOILERS HEREI have to say, when I first heard about this movie being made, I wasn't too convinced. A plague of dragons in a future, post-apocalyptic England? Sounded far-fetched, and indeed it is, but the good news is that, once the premise is presented in the movie (with clever touches like the dragons being responsible for the mysterious mass-extinction of dinosaurs), it also begins to sound like tremendous fun. Also the visual idea in the poster, with swarms of fire-breathing dragons fighting against formations of military helicopters, looked like the movie could have cracking action sequences. (I enjoyed Godzilla a lot, you know)But sadly, the film doesn't live up to this expectation. Bowman keeps things quite grim and low-key throughout, which works at first, when the tension is building, but ends being disappointing somewhat. The effects and the final battle are more or less satisfying, but it is inevitable to feel that this idea had potential for a much bigger, bolder, and more entertaining film. There is just ONE helicopter, for chrissakes. The impression is that the movie probably suffered budgetary constraints which kept it from realizing its full potential. That's why I say This movie needs a sequel. The idea is just too good. It's a bit like the first Mad Max; it was an interesting film, but it wasn't until the sequel (The Road Warrior for yanks, plain Mad Max 2 for us Europeans, but I think most will agree that it is better than the original) that the concept was explored to its enormously fun extremes. I hope that the modest success of Reign of Fire will be enough for someone to give Bowman the cash to make a movie that really does the idea justice. "},{"Title":"What I would classify as a good B Grade movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I walked into the Cinema expecting to see a movie with dragons, violence and a plot about as strong as toilet paper.  I wasn't disappointed.  If you are looking for a movie that will make you think about the important issues in life then I suggest you stay well away from this film.  If on the other hand you want to see a movie with a silly plot that is guaranteed to entertain then this could be your movie.The plot basically is that Dragons have suddenly appeared after thousands of years and are destroying the earth with there fire.  The major cities around the world are destroyed and only a few humans are left alive.  Quinn is the leader of a group of humans that have managed to survive so far against the Dragons.  One day he meets up with this American called Van Dam who has this plan for destroying the dragons.This movie, while not believable is definitely fun. If you love action and special effects and haven't yet seen this movie, I recommend that you do so.7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Puff the tragic dragon","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only redeeming feature about this grey, bland, dull, uninspiring and sleep-provoking excuse for a film, is that... hmm... sorry, my mistake. There is none. Oh, nice-looking dragons. Pity you had to pad it out to more than twelve minutes and try passing it off as a film. And hey - If you liked this you might want to look at Frequency(2000) - what's *that* about? Frequency is Oscar-material compared to this bloated sea-goose. Avoid, avoid and avoid. "},{"Title":"Nice idea, good effects... but the rest won't get an Oscar for sure.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay. The movie is based on a good idea - dragons in the futuristic world - that is something original. Still, it was the end of the ideas for this movie - the rest of the plot is a typical kill the big baddie movie the heroes come in, they get their butts kicked, then the last remaining heroes go and valiantly kick the butt of the big baddie in return. Usually it's some mafia boss or a big bad alien, and this time it's a dragon. The movie is like a mixture between Jurassic Park and Mad Max, just it lacks some suspense in the tense moments.There are some plotholes, and even a lot of them, but they are not very disturbing (well, except one - *spoiler* what happened to the rest of the female dragons? Did they starve? *end of spoiler*).Overall, the movie was not bad. But I'd rather watch it on TV, without paying for it. Still, I don't feel cheated in any way. The movie promised dragons, flames and typical action, and it gave it all. I just expected more... spirit, I guess, as it was boring sometimes. It's ok in its own category though. I'll give it 5 of 10. It's somewhat much in terms of its plot, but the movie didn't promise to be something it was not and the dragon designs were well done. "},{"Title":"An average and old-fashioned adventure","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Eletric, tongue in cheek adventure about a future where the dragons come back to life and destroy almost all the world with its breath of fire. A group of survivors led by Quinn (Bale) tries to survive in this devastated world but a bunch of American soldiers under the ruthless comand of Van Zan (MC Conaughey) want to fight back the monsters. Average and old fashoined adventure has its moments but the story is too simple and predictable. A good fun in a rainy afternoon. I give this a 5 (five).  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, some would try to look at this movie as if it was trying to take cinematography and well, the whole film industry in general, and turn it all around. Well this movie doesn't do that, shouldn't be expected to do that, and couldn't do that if it tried. What this movie does do is entertain. I loved it. Christian Bale does a good job as the leader of a small camp of people trying to survive. Matt McConaughey is awesome! This cat's always impressed me with his versatility and this role is no different.  As for their accents, GET OVER IT! Everyone sounds different! You can't expect everyone trying to play a brit to sound like James Bond. Overall, I thought the movie was awesome, starting at the appropriate place and ending exactly where it should have. It didn't drag itself through the mud trying to draw a conclusion. It was short, simple and to the point, using what it had well and completely convincing the audience of the events that are transpiring.  A great 'fairy tale' that did their dragons 100 times better than the lame D&D movie and DragonHeart combined. It was more along the lines of the classic flick DragonSlayer. "},{"Title":"Utter tosh","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Had to watch this one three times on a flight back to the UK.  Life can be hard sometimes it really can.Well I won't comment on the script (credit for this must go to Miss Jenkins alpha class, Springfield Elementary), or the acting (Little Marston amateur players). Ill just comment on the mechanism that our brave american heros have devised for killing these dragons.Who in their tiny minds expects an intelligent audience to accept that the only way to nail them is for one man to freefall out of a helicopter and act as bait, while two more jumpers follow behind with a net ?  I mean really. No, I mean REALLY ?!!  What must have been in the pizza the night they came up with that?  Extraordinary.It raises just a few tiny little questionattes in the old grey matter.  For instance, how could a relatively slow moving helicopter survive against these dragons?  Where do they get fuel for it?  Shell station perhaps?  Perhaps not.  And if by a miracle someone hurtling to earth at 200+ miles an hour hit the dragon with a net this would last how long exactly under a dragon blow torch?Yes I know.  It's fantasy.  No such things as dragons.  No such things as intelligent script/ plots in Holywood.  I should enter into the spirit of the thing....yah de yahde yah.ps.  Net time you see a 12 year boy in school uniform walk into a building site - just wave him through.  He knows what he's doing - and in any case his mum will look after him.  He may even get his hair ruffled affectionately by a foreman while he's down the mine...    "},{"Title":"Not reign of dire but reign of vaguely mundane","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Aptly described as `Mad Max with dragons', this movie is set in a post-Apocalyptic world, circa 2020, where the earth has been decimated by dragons, unleashed from a cave. Now small bands of people eke out a living in remote areas, hoping for the dragons to die out (as they are unable to find a sustainable food supply for their huge numbers). One of these bands is led by Quinn (Christian Bale). Food is running low and he's only barely managing to keep it together. when along comes a group of American fighters, led by Van Zan (a very beefed up Matthew McConaughey). He wants to take out the dragons. but is this a great plan or the ideas of a mad man?You don't expect much from a movie like this so I was not really that disappointed. The script here. is passable. The reason for the dragon's existence is never revealed nor does it need to be - I was happy to accept the scenario. There've been some complaints about the pacing of the movie, with a leaden middle section. This is somewhat true - the movie contained less action than I might have expected and the characters are not quite strong enough, nor the dialogue, to push it along. It's all a bit contrived but, as I did not expect intelligence. I did not feel let down when I did not get it (although a pleasant surprise would have been good). The climatic ending. is a decent action piece. Most of the action pieces are fairly accomplished, with enough tension to get you involved (even if the outcome, and the `who loves, who dies' is quite predictable).Acting. is nothing amazing. I did not find Bale's accent quite as jarring as other reviewers seem to have but I did not feel it was especially brilliant either. He's not got much of a character to work with here, like he did in `American Psycho' and instead it's the more cardboard cut-out action guy (trying to add dimension via a few moments of brooding). McConaughey seems to have more fun in his role as swaggering, beefy hardcore-military man - you just know he wants to have a cigar clasped between his lips. All the rest are too dimensionless to register with you (including the love interest, Alex, via Izabella Scorupco) but hey - I never expected any more.The SFX generally hold up well and the fire breathing scenes do not appear to be the stream of computer bytes that they actually are. Director Rob Bowman directs these action sequences well, with enough edginess (from his work on `The X-Files') to make you sit up on your seat. He doesn't attempt anything outside of his skill, but perhaps should have attempted some more judicious editing in certain areas (such as pointless `character building' moments). Still I've no complaints with him otherwise, and he makes nice use of the Irish location and the tools he's presented with.`Reign of Fire' should be taken with a pinch of salt and a laid-back attitude. It's a bit dumb but a bit fun. It's certainly the best dragon movie ever. but that's not saying much. Brainless entertainment that lacks repeat value. 5.8/10. "},{"Title":"There's only one thing worse than dragons. Americans!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign Of Fire is full of gung-ho, pointless nonsense with maybe three scenes which make you sit up and take notice. Christian Bale (the schoolboy actor from Empire Of The Sun and The Newsboys) plays the English hero who crosses swords with a shaven headed Matthew McConaughey, the American hero. It's the year 2020 and there are loads of dragons to killNo-one wants to explain where they came from, and no-one wants to explain why the world looks as though my kids were allowed to wreck it one Sunday afternoonAll I can say is I'm glad I managed to see it for free. I'd have hated to waste my money "},{"Title":"Cult Classic in the Making","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading people thoughts in here about Reign of Fire, my hopes were fairly low, when I pushed my self to the big screen and watched this. I feel ashamed for even listening to most of the comments in here. I feel so sad for people, no longer able to lose themselves in an adventure, just as they did when they were children, just as they did when they watched SW, Tron, Quest for fire or someother Cult Classic of your choice, for the first time.Dont let your critical mind or other people thoughts, ruin great times and great movies for yourself.Im not saying Reign of Fire is a masterpiece, far from. But it is original in its way of potraying mans struggle for survival. It developped through and through as Independence Day should have, just like Terminator in the Years after Skynet screwed up did, man against its own doom, fighting the fight of evolution.Spare me the details, spare me the realism-critisism and show me some faith.You may not see it now, but this movie is a cult classic. baaah whatever. The world has turned into a pop-seudo-intellectual-plastic-kiddie-bib-bib-happy-happy-go-lucky bubble of ignorance... Yeah im losing it, but its not my fault... "},{"Title":"Mad Max on Wings and Fire !","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     I'm a post apocalyptic stories fan and my opinion could be biased... but the fact is that I went to see this movie with relatively low expectations and I was very pleasantly surprised. The background story is pretty solid and gives the correct dark and moody atmosphere to the film. The existence of the Dragons and their modus operandi is believable and not at all silly as many claimed.    The characters are very likeable and pretty solid. McConaughey's crusader like attitude stands out as more than just your regular macho bull, he plays the tough guy you can admire and hate at the same time very well. Christian Bale differently makes the leader of the desperate role well and the anti-hero too.    Some more dragon scenes would have made this an even better film for sure. Budget considerations ? The Mad Max like, post apocalypse visual part is great. You really get into the story. The castle they use added to the film too. When that Dragon starts breathing fire the whole theatre gasped ! Some dragon scenes were beautiful...     So it's no oscar winning production. It could have been better with some small changes. More dragons and more acting too. Who cares about logic too ? Yet overall a very fun film... neat story and some suspense and fear too. The scene where they act out stories for the kids was very very funny ! Not to be taken too seriously of course.As an action-fun movie 9 in 10. IMDB standards ? 8 in 10. "},{"Title":"A fiery action-packed hit!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In a summer packed with blockbuster hits (i.e. SPIDER-MAN; MINORITY REPORT), REIGN OF FIRE is another that's likely to garner some attention. Unlike any other creature film, this one fuses a medieval past with a post-apocalyptic future (Touchstone Pictures), making for an adventurous tale of courage and struggle. This isn't just a movie about how dragons bring about the destruction of the planet. It is also about how mankind has suffered as a result of the devestation brought on by these creatures, and how crucial it is that the survivors learn to work as a team if they are to take back the Earth that was stolen from them by the beast. Director Rob Bowman claims that what is so great about the movie is that it provides a very realistic scenario for a very fantastic notion. He wanted to present audiences with something that was realistic, something that would ground them in reality. He hopes that by displaying the characters as real people dealing with real problems, and then revealing that it's because of the dragons, the people in the audience will be as afraid as the characters are. The opening scene of the film is set in present day London. Twelve-year-old English lad, Quinn, while exploring his mother's construction site, awakens a fire-breathing, gargantuan dragon, that, unbeknownst to the world, has been asleep below the surface for many hundreds of years. Twenty-years later, mankind has been brought to its knees by the dragon's many offspring. The now grown-up Quinn (Christian Bale) is a fire chief who's job is to keep a small community alive as they try to ward off the creatures, desperate to cling to whatever is left of their world. Bowman says, The thing about Quinn is that even if he does take a defensive position, he's not weak about it. He is one of the last few people alive out of six billion, so there has got to be something special about him. Hope comes along in the form of a gung-ho American named Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey), a man who tells Quinn that he is a dragonslayer. He and his men come to Quinn because they are in need of new recruits for a mission. They are on this mission to find the one and only male dragon that Van Zan believes to be source of fertilization for all the other female dragons. The dragon that they have been searching for is in London. This is the same dragon that Quinn had seen twenty years ago when it had killed his mother. Quinn believes that Van Zan is insane and that this plan of his isn't going to work. However, after he is forced to confront that inner demon that has plagued him ever since his mother's tragic demise, he changes his mind and decides that the time has come to fight back and destroy the creature, once and for all. Probably the most appealing thing about the movie is its originality. When was the last time you saw an action movie where dragons were matched against modern artillery? Never. The only action film (that I can recall) that took place in modern times with a creature that was anything dragon-like was GODZILLA. Thank god this film wasn't made by the same people who produced that piece of garbage. Despite what the film might lack script-wise and in character development, it more than makes up for with its superb blend of exciting action and amazing effects. Popcorn-movie buffs who get thrills from such slam-bang, tough-guy actioners as WATERWORLD and MAD MAX won't want to miss a single minute of this tally-ho, action-packed hit that producer Gary Barber claims is like nothing you've ever seen before. Rating 3 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"Story was weak, but the main dragon was awesome. Warning - spoiler","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Story didn't add up. They made it seem like the dragons had taken over the world, and they are all female dragons, except one. The way that the dragon supposedly reproduces is by flying by and spreading it's seed to impregnate the females.So, is this single dragon like Santa Clause and he flies around the world spreading his joy, then returns to the North Pole, which in this case is London, England.It was almost as if whoever wrote this story, thought that England was the entire planet or something.The posters and the trailers were deceiving as hell. I expected this movie to have armies of people in helicopters and stuff, fighting hundreds of dragons. Instead, I get a small group of people, one helicopter, a couple of tanks, and except for one scene in London, only one or two dragons. When I saw the trailer, I couldn't wait to see the movie, because it seemed like an interesting twist on apocolypic-style movies, not to mention, I love dragons. Man, was I dissappointed.BTW. The dragon(s) did look really cool, especially when the big one was breathing fire into the castle. I gave this film a 6/10 for dragon content, but a 1/10 for story.Chris "},{"Title":"Bale and McConaughey save a fairly silly story and plot!*Spoilers*","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS< you've been warned)Rob Bowman, director of 'The X Files' movie, tackles a futuristic earth inhabited and ruled by dragons in 'Reign of Fire'. Christian Bale plays Quinn, leader of a community who may be the last of the human race. They eventually meet the American military led by Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) who has managed to slay some of the dragons with his expert crew. Conflict arises between Quinn and Van Zan in establishing how to defeat the race of dragons, but both must eventually work together.This is a fairly decent action film, with very nice cinematography and some well-executed action sequences. What is really impressive about this this film are the two lead characters and the actors who play them. Matthew McConaughey is almost unrecognisable as the mean shaven-headed Van Zan who is a tough as nails. Christian Bale performs well playing the conflicted Quinn, who will do anything to save his people. When Quinn and Van Zan go head to head, it is a fiery scene and played well by both actors. Izabella Scorupco (I last saw her in Goldeneye) is okay, but doesn't really add that much and has a forgettable character.Unfortunately, with the exception of McConaughey, Bale and some of the effects, the plot is really bad and full of predictable outcomes. The expository dialogue is in full force as the hero seemingly find an easily solution to the problem, that of course fully relates to Quinn's inner turmoil. *SPOILER* For instance, to kill the entire species the rule the earth off- our heros must target the one male dragon which happens to be the sole gender of that species. A little too easy, after-all, the entire world has been taken over by dragons. *END SPOILER* Things like that just seem a little too contrived for my liking, plus there was other scenes just as contrived rather than going out for a realistic science-fiction fantasy crossbreed, and also there is a few plot-holes! However, there is a clever scene with a film reference which I won't spoil, but it adds to the desolate futuristic atmosphere of life after society has been destroyed. Oh, and another thing- these dragons look cool but they are not scary. Not scary at all! And Bowman doesn't quite manage to create the fear involved in this kind of future. Let's hope they don't make a sequel, cause 'Reign of Fire' is not bad on it's own but certainly unsatisfactory in parts and in the overall plot- which lowers it's overall score. Just above average and worthwhile popcorn entertainment! *** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Good action/fantasy movie","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS....But the ending had me puzzled. What happened to all the other female dragons? THAT, and a few other things prevented this from becoming a really great film. Like how Matthew MaConahey died so simply and easily when he was supposed to be one of the main characters. And the acting wasn't up to scratch, either.But the dragons were so real looking, and I loved the action sequencers. And although the movie heavily relies on the special effects, I really enjoyed it. A good B movie.74% "},{"Title":"worth checking out","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was a little more limited in scope than I was expecting or had hoped for. However, what it did attempt was achieved with a fair degree of skill and flair. Overall it was enjoyable, is worth seeing and McConaughey's performance, while limited (it is a plot driven piece after all), was certainly impressive. 6 to 8 out of 10, worth checking out. "},{"Title":"An entertaining fantasy action adventure","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While being nothing remotely ground-breaking, this film is entertaining enough. The characters are pretty cliched, but Christian Bale is likeable, and Matthew McConagheuy is always interesting to watch. The special effects are great, and the acting is competent. Enjoyable action sequences also don't hurt. Nothing exceptional,but if you like this type of film, you'll probably love it. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"would be better if the dragons had an english accent..","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  But they didn't ... they were boring.. and so was the movie. It looked cool on the trailers, but in reality it really dissapointed me. I mean I didnt't expect much of a great script/story but I did expect to be blown away and entertained for short two hours by napalm spewing dragons...well I wasnt quite blown away ... it did have some dragons (obviously) but the wind was more like a gentle breeze and it all amounted to a void as the credits started rolling and I got up from my seat. The movie has an average score of 6... make that 5.. and then ask yourself do I really wanna see yet another mediocre boring action flick? "},{"Title":"Fight fire with fire!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A good movie, indeed... When I watched the trailer, I've thought to myself...Another Jurassic type movie.... but no! There is a good story line behind it, like the Dragons being the cause for the dinosaurs extinction. The f/x are also good! The gigantic male dragon really rules, especially in the scenes where he burns the castle! Another good thing to see is that the action occurs in Europe, instead of the USA. For the first time, they're not the center of the universe. Not a master piece, but good entertainment. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"This is a great movie within its genre","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie. Granted Im a big fantasy/scifi fan so I can understand that people who arent mock this movie, but come on?If you just cant sit down and enjoy an hour and a half of entertainment in the form of some maybe unrealistic story then why do you go to a movie like this one?Yes its about dragons, yes dragons dont exist in real life...so what?Its a movie!Of course theres some holes in the background story and a few facts that just doesnt make sense, but if you disregard that and just sit back and relax this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"A slightly different action movie.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes you will go out to see a movie wanting to be inspired and enriched as a new way of looking at life is opened up to you on celluloid. And other times you just want to see dragons eating people.Reign of Fire falls very solidly into the brainless action film. Parts of the film make sense and there are some very cute moments watching a post-apocalyptical society struggle to survive against terrifying odds. Other parts of the film make no sense at all and there are plot holes big enough to drive a tank through. The quality of the acting is very good with all of the characters looking and behaving like they belong in a ruined world - Christian Bale does a particularly good job. It is also good to see an action film where the heroes are outgunned and outnumbered from the very start (and know it) rather than being able to beat the snot out of anything that comes their way.The mad science aspects of the film (where the characters try to explain what is happening) is pretty weak, but then it is mad science. I mean, if you put enough scientific-sounding words in an explanation it is bound to make some kind of sense, right? But then again, you don't go to Reign of Fire for a science lesson - you go there to be entertained. It has been a while since dragons have been up on the big screen and it is good to see them back and wreaking havoc.So turn your brain off and enjoy a slightly different type of action movie. It won't win any awards, but it is original enough to stand out from the spy theme that dominate recent action movies. "},{"Title":"We've got to work togethaaaaah","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've often mused about the idea of dragons coming back to life, although the type I was thinking about were like the one in 'Pete's Dragon'. Aw man, that would have been really cool.Unfortunately for Christian Bale, the dragons that come back to life here are more like the ones in 'Dragon Slayer'. Now as you would expect, that doesn't bode well for mankind, and everything kind of goes wrong. Most of the planet is scorched by dragon flame and we end up living in a horrible, grey burned world. On the plus side, there aren't any mimes, and there's no evidence of pyramid selling schemes. But the cons generally outweigh the pros.Now, Mr Bale and a group of other people, live in a funny looking castle thing, up in the North of England and are quite happy to sit around, being miserable and generally minding their own business when a group of American Marines show up and start doing typically American things; Jumping out of helicopters, blowing things up, screeching around on motorbikes and firing massive harpoons at things. Matthew McConaughey, plays a bald and rather aggressive marine colonel, who decides that the best course of action is not to sit around being miserable but to kick some serpentine butt.As you can imagine, this annoys Christian, who was enjoying the dull misery of his life and is not about to let some slap-headed American tell him what to do. So they have a fight and as an indirect result things get blown up and there's lot's of shouting.If you like big, mean dragons that breath napalm and don't befriend little boys then Reign of Fire should be at the top of your list.In the new marking system that I've just invented, I give it 17 stars, which is quite a good score. "}{"Title":"You got to be kidding me!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok. I expected a LOT more of the movie. I couldn't stop thinking when watching the movie that the director couldn't have been serious when doing the movie. I don't think it was supposed to be scary, dramatic or anything. Van Zan was a closet case, really!!! I bursted to a hysteric laugh when he came in to the last human refuge sitting on a tank or whatever with a large gun between his legs. My friend who sat next to me said Do you think he might be compensating for something? I wonder.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and thrilling","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's easy to knock this movie for not bringing the thrills that the poster promises, but when you get over the initial disappointment Reign of Fire quickly turns out to be quite an interesting movie. Admitted, it has it's flaws, but the entertainment value of this movie is high enough to make you forget the plot holes that are big enough for ten male dragons to fly through. Actually this movie is worth the asking price alone for the laugh you will get when you see Matthew McConaughey for the first time. He does a pretty good job in this movie, but with a look like this I think he could have killed those dragons by just letting them have a look at him.And somebody needs to tell him that cigars are not for chewing on, but for smoking.(7/10) "},{"Title":"A truly respectable fireball of artistic excitement!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To walk into a movie and be elevated to that level of enthralling excitment and respect for those who worked on this film is so gratifying. Rod Bowman you deserve congratulations for a truly great job! I certainly recommend this movie to everyone and will happily relive the journey over again. Well done!!! "},{"Title":"As believable as a movie about fire-breathing dragons can be!","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like I said in my summary, this movie is as believable as a movie can be about fire-breathing dragons.  However there are a lot of holes here Quinn wakes up one male dragon.  Where did (any) of the females come from, like a male can't re-produce by himself?, These things would have been killed by air-to-air fighters or other methods once the threat they caused was realized, and it seems survivors would have gone underground, to survive, build hydroponic gardens etc.  Like another reviewer mentioned, the movie would have been more effective it it had shown more of what had happened right after the dragon escaped its underground lair.  Also, the the movie trailer I saw said this was all set in 2086 or so, ...Oh well, so much for continuity!!..At the end it is mentioned they haven't seen any dragons for over six months, What happened to them?...Another thing that bothered me...Where did they get all their gas for their vehicles, as it has supposedly been 20 years since civilized society has been wiped out!...None-the-less I really enjoyed this flick...Could have been better..Kind of wondering what scenes were edited out! "},{"Title":"Missing","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As I started watching this film, I thought I have turned up 1 hour late as the film goes straight into the middle of any other action film. Missing out the background, the plot, as it doesn't tell you anything about where these Dragons come from and why there destroying planet Earth. Other than that its a good film 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fire has its moments but ultimately goes up in smoke","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this latest entry into the Independence Day-style post-apocalyptic genre, nearly the entire world has been destroyed by an army of fire-breathing dragons. It all started twenty years earlier, when one was accidentally disturbed from a long sleep by underground construction workers. Now, almost all of mankind is extinct, save for a small makeshift community somewhere in England, led by Quinn (Christian Bale), who has the unenviable task of protecting this small village from the flying beasts. Help eventually arrives in the form of an American army led by a tattooed, militaristic, redneck dragon-hunter, Van Zant (Matthew McConaughey, complete with bulging muscles and a shaved pate), who claims to have an efficient way to kill off the dragons once and for all. Just forget about the flat storyline, McConaughey's unintentionally hilarious scenery-chewing (which complements his smeared black tattoos), and the plot holes that could fill a Dunkin' Donuts box, and you have a marginally entertaining picture that barely avoids becoming a complete joke thanks to Bale's reluctant-hero performance. In the same vein, Izabella Scorupco, as Alex, Van Zant's computer-nerd assistant, is thankfully spared the damsel-in-distress routine as she helps our male heroes fight off the dragons. Don't go to this picture expecting anything extraordinary, for this Reign can definitely be stopped.  5/10  "},{"Title":"100 minutes of fun","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  From the start, Reign of fire is action packed till the end. There is no kissing or love scene, no part where two characters sit down and talk for a long time, and quite frankly no part that isn't without action and tension in it. This doesn't sound like a good movie, but I'd like to say that there are two kinds of movies the kind that aims to win an oscar and place its mark in history while wowing the audience, and the kind that just wants to entertain the audience without trying to bore them. Reign of Fire is the latter; there is some drama in it but its mainly an action movie get that in your head before you diss it. There is are a lot of pyrotechnics involved, obviously, and I think this film uses them to the greatest potential. The pyrotechnics and special effects are fantastic and very realistic, with direction that captures its destruction perfectly. There is no gore in the movie either; while characters do get eaten by the dragon, the director made the smart move to just show them getting swiped away by the dragon and thats it. Like I said, this movie is meant to entertain the audience, not gross them out(though some individuals like myself don't mind a bit of gore here and there). I would have liked the movie to have the apache choppers in the posters featured, but not in the manner Godzilla did but sadly they aren't there. The movie, as I figured, isn't about characters loading up on weapons to blow the dragons away. Its about how they used their courage, their strategic options and sacrifice to defeat their enemies. It is an action movie, yes, but not the kind where the characters are like Rambo. The acting is good too Bale plays Quinn terrifically as the hot headed leader of the castle who's temper is the result of his desperation to protect his people. The guy who plays Van Zann is cool, too. He is a character who has continuously changing moods who really loses it once he gets excited. The female character was also good, for a change, and thank goodness she and Quinn don't kiss or anything like that. The world in Reign of Fire is terrific there isn't a single tree, nor a single blade of grass. Its just one gigantic field of ash and rubble. The city that was london is good too; if you thought stalingrad was a mess, boy should you see this one. Overall a good movie that is a welcome watch as long as you don't expect any high standards in the drama and plot department.   "},{"Title":"Good, if your not expecting great things...","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, preconceptions. as i look at the reviews for this movie, I see a lot of people ranting about how theyWanted to see places getting destroyed, and big explosions!well, wake up. that isnt what the movie is about. The Dragons, whilst the baddies of the peice, arent the main characters. the main highlight of the film is the rivalry between Quinn and Van Zan. these two characters are at the opposite end of the spectrum. Van Zan is the typical american Action Guy! running around, shooting the living hell out of everything.Quinn, on the other hand, is a British guy. not the typical american movie british guy, Oh no. he's a man whose had to lead a group of people in trying to survive in a world that has been taken over by creatures that can destroy them easilly.(wow, a British Hero. Who'da thunk?)I liked this movie. it wasnt big, it wasnt groundbreaking, but it was fun. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was just as I expected...good action sequences, good special effects, but I left the movie thinking Well, that was a good (not a great) movie. And nothing more.  I only paid $0.50 to see it at a local cheap movie theater, and I'll see just about any movie at that price.  I would've been disappointed if I'd spent $4 on renting the DVD. "},{"Title":"It had some good scenes but sadly wasn't what I expected. Could have been made better.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overall, I rate this one below Godzilla, and way below the first Jurassic Park. At least Godzilla came through with the cheap thrills.One of Reign of Fire's faults IMHO is that it tried to be too realistic. I expected better action scenes (This wasn't expecting an Oscar after all.). The first dragon-slaying sequence was good enough, but after that the thrill pretty much disappeared. Also, the posters showed gunship helicopters, which were nonexistent in this movie (Alex's chopper didn't have offensive capabilities). (I also vaguely remember seeing fighter planes firing missiles in the trailer, but then again, I'm not sure.)One thing the movie was able to do well was to express the fear-laden situation the survivors were in. The overall atmosphere and the dreary living conditions showed the once-proud humans cowering in fear of the new dominant species.Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey were good and credible in their respective roles. Izabella Scorupco also did well as a support character. "}{"Title":"Noooo!!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was at the sneak-preview of this movie where Izabella Scorupco guested...First of all, DO NOT go see this movie!!Second, this is whyThe movie seems cool at trailers and stuff, but that is not even cool when in the film! The whole film takes place at a castle where a dragon sits on top and shoots fire from his mouth....kind of..It is NOT exciting. It is NOT impressive. It IS a good way to fall to sleep.I was VERY dissapointed at this movie, luckily I didn't pay to see it since it was a sneak-preview.. If I had, this criticism would have been even worse..Conclusion Do NOT see it at the theatre. Do NOT rent it. Wait until it shows on TV instead. "},{"Title":"I really must stop letting my boyfriend drag me to films like this....","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The film begins in modern day London where as a school boy, Quinn has an encounter with a dragon which is responsible for his mother's death.  Years pass accompanied by montages featuring newspaper clippings, magazine covers and archive documentary footage describing the world domination by flying fire-breathing dragons to when Quinn, as an adult (Christian Bale) is leader of a small community fighting for their survival!  The running of the community is interrupted by the arrival of Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) who manages to persuade Quinn to join forces with him to put an end to the &#145;reign of fire'.I am still left pondering over why I agreed to go and see this movie.  I guess I'd seen the trailer which looked quite exciting and promised a jaw-dropping spectacle of fire-breathing dragons causing mass destruction.  However, I soon found the dragons concept uninteresting &#150;once you've seen one dragon, you've seen them all.  The picture is often grey in tone but the sound effects are impressive giving the dragons more of a presence. The two male leads give competent performances.  One feels that the single female character has just been thrown in to a predominantly male cast to make the film more appealing to any females in the audience.  Unfortunately, this is no big-budget movie and it shows -the end-product is overall a disappointment and the ending is abrupt but nevertheless welcome.  "},{"Title":"Fabulously entertaining, just leave your brain at home","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a fabulous piece of entertainment.  No prizes for plot - you know exactly how it's all going to end up, and it's hard to suspend disbelief on some of the logistical issues they face (particularly refuelling the helicopter ... and the tank... and the trucks... etc etc etc etc etc...!) - but the action sequences are amazing - and you know what, they have just about exactly enough dragons.  I thought I'd want more (ever since I saw the poster I've been saying to myself Dragons and helicopters! this is MY movie!), but they judged it really well - left us wanting more, if you know what I mean?  And MAN... that first kill was brilliantly staged - the earth moved for me ;)The potential for a sequel is there (e.g. you never see Quinn actually destroy the egg...) but I wonder if they'll get enough money to make a decent one?  They WILL need more dragons in any sequel, and - let's be honest - a decent plot.  Here's hoping, eh. "},{"Title":"If only they sticked to the concept...","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay the film has a wonderful idea. So dragons are real, terminated the dinosaurs and now they're alive and kicking. So why does this turn out to be a kind of Mad Max with only a few survivors running for their lives? Wouldn't it be a lot more exciting to see the fight of civilization against a new original of threat? Wouldn't it be great to see dogfights of copters vs. dragons? This turns the poster into the biggest bluff of the movie. It could use a kind of independence day formula and be original with it but sadly it falls into the easy formula of the clich and the result is almost two hours of fire and more fire, action sequence after action sequence. Thus, I award it a 5, it wasn't at all disappointing - Christian Bale gives this much-needed class, and his head-to-head with a souped-up McConaughey's Van Zan provides more tension than the occasional dragon threat. But it doesn't really make the viewer feel totally satisfied. And please no sequels! "},{"Title":"Good Movie..Not enough Depth.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire has all the makings of a great film. Great cast, special effects and original story line, but the one thing it's lacks is 'Depth'. The movie is set in the future, which dormant Dragons have raised from the Earth to reclaim the land. Matthew Mc Conaughey is excellent as the typical loud American fearless hero, Van Zan, and Christian Bale is equally as good as Quinn, the leader of survivors, just trying to survive. I don't want to give much away but what I mean by Depth is that the movie rushed past the destruction of Earth as we know it. It would have made a much more filled out movie if it shows the major cities getting destroyed. And if this was done the main characters in the movie. i.e Bale and Mc Conaughey would have a feeling of history which would make the viewer more attached to them. All in all, this is a fun movie, which you don't have to think about, but wait for video! "},{"Title":"Excellent Nonsense","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very odd film this, but I was pleasantly surprised. It looked great, was set in England (and English people weren't the baddies for once!) and glamourised places like Northumbria and Norwich! This instantly made me warm to the film (pun intended). We did need to be saved by the Americans, but this is a Hollywood film I suppose (interesting parallels with the current war on terror perhaps, but probably unintentional.) The plot was bog-standard and often implausible but good peerformances all round and some interesting characterisation raised this film above other summer fare (it's a lot better than Resident Evil). Star Trek fans will be pleasantly surprised to see Alice Krige (Borg Queen) at the beginning and Alexander Siddig (Bashir from DS9) as a bit-part radio operator, not exactly a glorious role but nice to see him again. What did annoy me about the film were the accents. We're in Northumbria, but the castle is populated by (Dick van Dyke style) cockneys. Why? Why weren't there any North-Eastern accents? Does Hollywood only understand two British accents cockney and posh? And we seemed to hop over to London like it was next door, when London is around 400 miles away. Other plot improbabilities include the weakness of the dragons that leads to their downfall, the fact the dragons thrive on ash yet seem to want to eat people, the fact that the castle population were starving yet they could have easily grown mushrooms/fungi and other produce underground, the fact that the castle occupants had an arsenal of weaponry yet civilians don't have access to guns in the UK (OK maybe they took them from military installations but the weapons weren't British standard issue). All in all a fair bit of nonsense, with some odd homo-erotic fights and stares by the two male leads. "},{"Title":"Visually fantastic, plotline pathetic","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When the movie boffins got together and decided to make a film about dragons, they really had a good idea. I mean, dragons! Think of the possibilities! But over the course of this movie, they manage to turn the dragon into a one-dimensional character. With a mythological beast, you can add whatever twists you want really, who's to say you're wrong? So really the possibilities were endless. Somehow these guys have managed to put an end to it. The plot is thus Quinn (portrayed rather well, i thought, by Christian Bale) is the leader of one of the few remaining human colonies left on earth after the resurgence of dragons earlier in the century. A survivor of a dragon attack himself, he tries to keep his people alive but hopes are slim. Enter Matthew McConaughey, as Van Zan, a 'dragon hunter', whose band of mercenaries had been attacked landing in England and need to take shelter in the colony. Cue clash of egos, much dragon fighting and human casualties and masses of special effects. As far as scenery goes, this film is aesthetically pleasing, beautiful landscapes, even in the fire swept cities. And the animation on the dragons is nothing short of spectacular. But all this shine can't hide the fact tha the plotline is wafer thin at best, and only Bale's character managed to convince me that this man had seen hell and come back from it. It's a shame, because with more thought, this film had potential. "},{"Title":"'Dont believe the Hype'","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am tired of reading reviews of this film with the words 'oh dear the potential'' or some rubbish like that. I mean have you ever thought that maybe some of us did not want a brain dead Summer Blockbuster with 'franchise potential' mass destruction Id4 type movie and would prefer a well made ,well acted character based film instead? Yes, you may blame the Posters, the Trailers and the hype that precedented this movie I think they actually did intend to dupe you into thinking it would be a sort of Apocalypse Now with Dragons and stuff ,but there are people like myself who were pleasantly surprised that it was not, OK it was'nt the best movie ever made but it was certainly the best dragon movie I've seen. With good performances from all involved, A grown up Christian Bale and the underrated Matthew McConaughey,his character Van Zan is one of the baddest mofo's in film for a long time. So take my advice people 'dont believe the hype'. "},{"Title":"Rated PG-13 for Pretty Good if You're 13","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film does seem to be fit for early teens. This film's dragons are pretty real-looking although they were not nearly seen enough. I find it hard to believe that in 2020, the world will be taken over by fire-breathing beasts. This movie also has some plot holes like most movies do. For instance, where do Van Zan and his crew fuel up? The action scenes were exciting and fun. This movie stars Christian Bale (American Psycho) and Matthew McConaughey (The Wedding Planner). Izabella Scorupco(Vertical Limit) stars as a dragon-slaying helicopter pilot. We know so much more about Bale's character, Quinn, than we do about McConaughey's character, Van Zan. We know enough about Quinn to sympathize with him. Van Zan is another story. Christian Bale's performance was good, including getting his butt kicked in the fight scene. Matthew McConaughey did not deliver his best performance when his lines come out so breathy that you crack up right there in the theater. I give this movie's special effects an A. I personally like this movie because I like action movies. Go see this movie for the action scenes but don't expect much else.  "},{"Title":"There be Dragons Amongst Us More's the Pity","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To be totally honest I felt there was so much backbiting and infighting that in the end, one realizes this what ultimately destroyed the Castle for the simple fact it's leaders could not even agree to disagree. Had the leaders been able to agree to settle there petty differences until the current crises was over... then they might have rid themselves of the beasts even sooner.As the story goes, everyone spends entirely too much time running around like chickens with their heads cut off just content with trying to survive until the very end when everything comes to a screeching halt. As it was... there's just too much defense, and not enough offense. The dreaded beasts themselves were great. Much like one might expect for a dragon to appear... wish I could say the same for the writing, as I left the theater feeling I should have waited for the film on home video. "}{"Title":"Is that Dave Hedgehog?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If anyone out there watches either Bottom or the Young Ones, you may get Quinn (Christian Bale) confused with Dave Hedgehog in this.It's a very basic film, following all the traditional Hollywood cliches. It looks good and sounds great, but the acting is wooden, the plot is extremely thin and it's not the sort of film you can provide artistic analysis of. "},{"Title":"ashes to ashes","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  REIGN OF FIRE is an average to good apocalyptic drama with an original plot twenty years after a dragon-attack (awakened after some million years of sleep when they made the dinosaurs extinct) survivors have trouble to hold their ground. Due to time and production limits the full potential of the story couldn't be reached.  That doesn't mean that REIGN OF FIRE looks crappy.  Not at all! The special effects are very nice and not overdone, but I've got the feeling this could have become a great epic adventure with a profound list of characters and storylines if they had 2 hours more.  But time is money and director/producer Bowman did a fine job all in all.I like the way REIGN OF FIRE has a certain realism and there are moments when the setting (moisty and foggy UK) gives the film an independent look. Everything isn't as shiny and polished as most Hollywood special FX apocalyptic crap.  This film is serious and doesn't overdo the use of dragons and special effects to raise the action.  Not every dragon attack is as impressive as the other, but the psychology between the main characters can save some moments.  REIGN OF FIRE deserves a 6/10.On a personal note, I think it's a pitty that Christian Bale plays the main role, because I have troubles watching that man play after I've seen the terrible movie that is American Psycho. "},{"Title":"This is far away from the dragons of the Apocalypse","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You can see that this screenplay has been made by five writers; it does not come out of the imagination of one human being.  So the plot goes in all directions.  Are we afraid of the dragon?  There is one great scene the one with the helicopter and the flying angels trying to put a net and Quinn (Christian Bale) on his horse attracting the dragon. I wonder why this movie is in an old castle in Northumberland (in reality in Ireland) with saints on the walls to give a more apocalyptic impression?  When Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) says to Quinn I am from Coffeyville, the town from which the habitants killed the Dalton-brothers this is very funny.  It is unimaginable that they come from there to England to fight the dragon.  Oh, yes, the dragon is in the shield of England.  Why does the big dragon not kill Quinn?  Has it something to do with the beginning when he receives some spittle in his face?  This movie lacks terror to be frightening.  It is a mixture of England and US, science-fiction and horror and Mad Max but it is not strong enough to have its own personality.  You even ask yourself if this is a movie for children or for adults.  The introduction is childish like in a comic of superman and does not convince of the great danger for the planet.  And where is the American Air-Force? "},{"Title":"The film that falls before its poster!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first thing I saw about Reign of fire was the poster at Marylebone underground station.  I was impressed, dragons burning down London. I can think of few, better things to see in a movie.  But there is one small problem and that seems to be that they forgot to add that bit to the film.  We see London before it gets torched and then nothing until the end of the movie.  Where we see the remains of London somewhere in between the film has lost something, which is a shame because it could have turned, what is a better than average film in a big blockbuster.  The film seems to have been set up for the burning city scenes but then sadly for the audience news paper and news footage seems to have been used instead.  I can only assume that it must come down to budgetary problems and stupid exec's but I do not know.As for the rest of the film.  Well the film starts off very stupidly. with a kid being able to go down a into some underground construction works which is a very bad sign but after that it does get a lot better.  The story is basic but that is what a person who is going to see the film is going to expect.  The acting for the most part is ok with the Christian Bale is about the only person giving much of a character.  Given some good dialogue Matthew McConaughey would have made a good Quint character obsessed with catching the evil beasts and whilst his actions do go some way to promoting this image but his character just comes over as a grumpy American with a gun most of the time.  Izabella Scorupco is ok but again is left to be the love interest.  The directing is good ok though a bit lazy at times.  What stand in the movie though is the mise-en-scene which fits the film and sets the mood perfectly.  The CGI at times is great but at other times seems to have been rushed which is a real pity.  The score for the film is ok and never becomes over powering.  Most of the sound effects are good but at one point I am sure that one of the dragons is making the same noise as a helecopter as it flies.Overall, its a good fun film in the same way that the Scorpion King is a good fun film.  Don't expect Lord of the Rings or what you see on the poster!  "},{"Title":"This is too much! Boring, nonsensical, stupid.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is only ONE reason for which I didn't fell asleep during this film uncomfortable seats. Boy, this is boring! A movie with no plot at all, with horrible acting, cliched, etc. What a waste of time... Dragons appear for no reason at all and they destroy the whole world. And it's long long long long! I felt like it was four hours long, and I've seen four-hours-long movies which are a lot more entertaining to watch. The only line wich gave me a good laugh There's only one thing worse than dragons, americans "},{"Title":"Mad Matt Scores A Scorcher","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first half of the film sets the mood brilliantly and introduces a refreshingly new concept on Armageddon, not from nukes or mad funny moustached dictators with a badly concealed chemical warfare plants, but from Napalm breathing Dragons. I must admit from the start I was hooked and, yes, although the acting and plot does have a few holes, they weren't serious enough to get in the way of a decent story and some first class CG. The dragons are excellent and have just the right measure of menace to give the right level of tension. There's a decent cast of Brits but the show is easily stolen by Mad Matt Mc Conaughey's double well 'ard character with a magnificent slap-head, steel wool beard and accompanying well 'ard tattoos. Cool but obviously driven a bit bonkers mad by his obsession to kill all Dragons. Definitely worth a look, I read about this in my regular SF magazine this time last year and had high hopes for it, thankfully it wasn't a disappointment.  "},{"Title":"not enough dragons; dodgy cockney accents.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting this movie to be a bit of a no-brainer, and it was. Unfortunatly, the problem was it seemed that the writers seemed unsure as to what kind of film they were trying to make. Not enough action for an action movie, not enough character development for a 'survival' movie. Plus some of the plot holes seemes so glaring it hurtHow come they assumed there was only one male dragon? Why did he spend most of his time being antisocial until they just happen to be looking for him? How come he keeps changing size?More importantly, though, large sections of this film were pretty boring, and the dialogue lacked emotional gravitas. The conversation scenes would not have been boring were they well written and clever; and so it was hard to care for the character's predicaments, which as clearly the intention of those scenes!However, the big daddy dragon was pretty cool, and I do think dragons are pretty cool. As far as movies about dragons go, it beats Pete's Dragon and Dragonheart. "},{"Title":"Nice but could have been even better","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent movie with great medieval type dragon slayer story set in a post-apocalyptic setting in England. Don't let the negative reviews put you off - this is a great movie despite some its shortcomings in plot and acting.Dragon special effects ranged from excellent to sub-Jurassic Park and Dragonheart.------------- SPOILERS -------------Also, what's up with the helicopter and heavy artillery pulling up with Van Zan? Not once was a dragon shot down using the big tank! No gunship helicopters (as falsely hinted on all print posters!), no rocket propelled grenades or snipers taking down dragons. Instead the whole military units gets fried in one single dragon fly-by! From that perspective it is pretty low tech.In the same way that Aliens I was innovative but a bit slow on the effects, Aliens II made up for it all. Likewise, maybe there can be a Reign of Fire part II with all action modern weaponry versus the firebreathing monsters!  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  &#145;Reign of Fire' has been keenly awaited by the Hamilton camp. I have been reading articles, interviews etc since the primary shooting wrapped some four or five months ago. This seemed to be everything I have been waiting for in film. Which is usually a bad omen!Construction workers in the heart of London unearth a Dragon and bang goes the neighbourhood. Before you know it there's thousands of the buggers, who live on ASH?, so you can imagine what the little tinkers get up to. To make matters worse, us humans in an effort to deal with the problem only cause more destruction. Fast forward twelve years and the few humans that are left gather together in encampments to try and stay alive. Quinn (Christian Bale), is our hero. He leads his group who see the protection of the children as the only way to keep the human race going. Then along come the guys that are going to sort the problem, i.e. the Americans. It then becomes a question of whether the Dragons will kill the two communities&#133;before they kill each other.Like I said, I've read an awful lot about this film before I saw it. The interviews with the Director Rob Bowman (The X-Files Fight the Future) really painted a picture of three-dimensional characters in a rich, weighty and action packed story. I am sorry to say that that might have been in the script and may if fact lie on the editing room floor, but it certainly is not in evidence on the screen. The story and characters all seem very thin and clichd. The destruction of the world is glossed over, we spend precious little time with the communities to see how bad their lives are, and the Yanks are the weapon packing, strong, silent, great fighters, who know no fear types. Oh dear!!! To compound the problem the film is short, around 1 hr 40 mins, so there is no chance to ever gain an affinity with the characters.The actors themselves do their best. Christian Bale (Empire of the Sun) does quite well with the script he is given. Matthew McConaughey (Contact, Amistad), looking beefed up, really does very well not to laugh on camera what some of the American patriotic bullshit that he is asked to spout. Izabella Scorupco (Vertical Limit) looks too damn lovely to be one of the &#145;survivors'. Harsh criticism I know, the woman can't help being beautiful, she plays the final few scenes well but still just looks out of place amongst the ugliness and destruction.I didn't like The X-Files Fight the Future because, guess what, it felt thin and lacking substance. So I am going to have this down to Rob Bowman. There are some fantastic visuals in this film but a good film requires more than fancy graphics, so maybe it is time for Rob to go back to Television direction until he works out how to tell a story in the movies.I cannot express how disappointed I am in this film. Don't get me wrong; it is not a terrible film. What disappoints me is that in the hands of a good director this could have been a great film and it certainly is a far cry from being that.  "},{"Title":"Loaded with Fire","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this movie it showed a totally new concept of dragons. These are creatures that have outscared dinosaurs, and Godzilla in many ways. The story is set around 2010-2020 A.D., where dragons are roaming the world for years and years. They are unstoppable, extremely intelligent and very powerful. They can destroy cities in seconds. More intelligent than velociraptors, speed about at 1000 mph, and weight at least 50,000 pounds!!! They can see 100 times better than humans in daylight and 10x better in night. They live on ashes and the dead. The most scary creatures since Jurassic Park. Dragons used to be funny and stupid in fairytales. But in this movie, they are hardcore fire-breathing hellraisers. The special and visual effects were just off-the-charts. The story of the survival of mankind is quite amazing and how they gave a realistic view of all the countries in the world destroyed. If you love scary monsters then this is a must-see. Heart-pounding action, bone-crunching monsters, and spine-tingling effects. I just have to say this is a really great movie with the cast of 'tough' Simon McConaughey and a great performance by Christian Bale. "}{"Title":"A SCORCHER !","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If this film has only done one thing, it has shown that half the blatherscites who bemoan the use of effects in the place of storytelling, dont recognise what they cry out for when they get it.This films use of effects shots was extremeley restrained for a summer movie, and yet still told a cohesive, imaginative story, the dragons appeared when the story required, not to bolster a flagging pace, or distract from a non-existant plot, the characterisation was ample for a film of its genre, and through this and a notable job on the part of Rob Bowman ,the director, a palpable sense of jeopardy surrounded the characters situation.Any person with an ounce of common sense could see that this is film ,not unlike LORD OF THE RINGS, which knows how to use special effects, to assist story telling, not become the story, and therefore cut down on the excessive flab which is ruining films today. "},{"Title":"Probably the best dragon movie to date, but still disappointing","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!! I'm a huge fan of Christian Bale's &#150; I thought his work in AMERICAN PSYCHO was one of the greatest and most faithful performances of any book-to-film character translation ever witnessed. He WAS Patrick Bateman. Is. Whatever. While the film might not have been totally flawless &#150; let's face it, most of the book was unfilmable, and I think they did a great job overall &#150; Bale was untouchable as Bateman. Especially with the voice.Ironic, then, that it's that very thing &#150; his voice, or rather his accent &#150; that really lets REIGN OF FIRE down. It's certainly not the only thing, but it goes a long way to making this film come across as totally ludicrous.OK &#150; I know what you're thinking. `This is a film about dragons, mate! Of course it's ludicrous&#133;' and yeah, I concur. But the problem is that any time a film that is pure fantasy has an element within that is unintentional comedy you tend to find that the entire piece is left somewhat farcical. I do tend to natter a bit during movies anyway (not loud enough to a problem to anyone apart from whomsoever is sitting next to me) but I found myself cracking joke after joke every time there was a pause after Bale's character spoke `Cor blimey Mary Poppins!', `Love a duck, apples and pairs, three for a pound!' etc etc. I couldn't help myself. The accent was that bad; straight out of Dick van Dyke school of British stereotypes.The movie begins in present-day London. Twelve-year old Quinn (Ben Thornton) pays a visit to his mother, a construction engineer, as her team work on improvements to the London Underground. Quinn watches on in horror as the team accidentally wake a huge, dormant dragon from an endless sleep. The dragon goes on a terrible rampage and the young Quinn is the only survivor. Over the next two decades, the world has been ravaged by thousands of dragons that have virtually wiped out humanity. We learn through the safe but somewhat tiresome format of press clippings (from TIME, and other publications) how the dragons have destroyed all of the world's major landmarks and that mankind is virtually on the brink of extinction.Fast forward to 2020, and the older Quinn is now the leader of a small group of survivors, who eke out a humble existence in Northumberland. Quinn, still haunted by the death of his mother, does his best to maintain a community of adults and children within the ruins of a castle. Their only source of food is a once-a-year apple harvest, and the crop is thinning. Folks are getting hungry, and some of the camp want to take what they can from the harvest now, ahead of time, but Quinn is adamant that they should wait until the crop is fully ripened, and can be re-harvested. When a team of dissidents decide to take matters into their own hands and grab some apples early, half of the crop, and one of the party, is destroyed by one of the dragons. We learn that the dragons basically live on death &#150; their food source is the ash from burnt human and animal remains. Due to the wipeout of mankind, the dragons are also on the verge of starvation, and their numbers have thinned. However, because of their eternal hunger, they have become more dangerous than ever. Quinn has become stuck somewhere between a castle and a hard place &#150; what to do, stay and starve, or move on and risk everyone being killed?Matters are made somewhat more complex by the arrival of Van Zan (a very buffed Matthew McConaughey, who clearly spent many hours down the gym for this role.), an emotionless, tough, focused military type who brands himself as a `dragonslayer'. Quinn dislikes Van Zan on site, but when Van Zan and his team of assorted militia take out a large female dragon (using all kinds of fancy equipment, plus a helicopter) he grudgingly gives his respect.Quinn meets Alex Jansen (played by Polish actress Izabella Scorupco, whose best known previous appearance was in VERTICAL LIMIT), Van Zan's helicopter pilot, and receives two key pieces of information firstly, that the dragons' eyesight, while superior to mans, is questionable during times of low light (i.e., dusk). And secondly, and most importantly, we learn that all of the dragons, bar one, are female. The male, who has never been seen by Van Zan or his team, fertilises all the thousands of females while remaining in an area of relative safety &#150; Van Zan believes that the male is still in London, the location of the first attack. Quinn realises that the male is the first dragon he ever saw &#150; the one who killed his mother.Van Zan then tips his hand &#150; he wants to use some of Quinn's men to lead a team into London to kill the male, thus effectively securing the termination of the species. Quinn goes ballastic, and the two engage in a spot of violent slap &#145;n tickle. Quinn is no match for Van Zan's physical toughness, however, and soon it becomes apparent that his battle with Van Zan is a lost cause &#150; half a dozen of Quinn's people volunteer on their own free will. Believing the attack to be a suicide mission, Quinn refuses to go, and Van Zan and his team set off alone.It transpires that Quinn's fear was well-grounded when all of Van Zan's team, bar Alex, are wiped out by a single attack from the male, who then traces their tracks back to the castle, effectively destroying it and dozens of Quinn's people. Quinn realises that if any of them are going to survive, they are going to have to take on the male and kill it. Together, Quinn, Van Zan and Alex head back to London in a desperate bid to save humanity.Gasp. Okay &#150; that's pretty much the movie in a nutshell, sans the final battle, and I'm not going to spoil that for you. I've already ratted heavily on Bale's accent in this film &#150; it truly is one of the worst you will have ever heard &#150; and Van Zan's Southern American hick-speak didn't exactly add much to the film either. Now, when you throw in Izabella Scorupco's Polish flavourings in there as well, you have a bizarre, and somewhat comical, little mixture. The acting, too, is surprisingly weak considering the strength of the male leads &#150; Bale appears to be very much going through the motions, and while McConaughey's character is physically impressive, he plays the role way too much over the top for my tastes, and is a bit too one-dimensional. Scorupco is basically there to offer a hint of potential romance for Quinn, and didn't really add anything to the movie or the plot.The movie did have some good stuff, though; throughout, the SFX are superb, and this is arguably the greatest visualisation of dragons that Hollywood has yet produced. The beasts, particularly the impressive male, are an example of CGI at its best, and it's only on occasion that you find yourself questioning them, but for a movie that is specifically about dragons they are criminally underused. For a world that has been ravaged by thousands of dragons, we only really get to see them in action on three occasions &#150; once, when the crop is destroyed, a second time when Van Zan and his team kill one, and finally in the battle with the male at the end. There is a major cop out when Quinn and Van Zan arrive in London to see the male's fortress protected by hundreds of females, only for all of the beasts to fly off when the male decides to eat one of them for lunch. Not only does this make Quinn's dragonslaying mission a hell of a lot easier, it denies us what the movie's poster promised but the film failed to deliver &#150; a massive battle between humans and dragons, as opposed to a smaller melee between three humans and one (albeit very large) male. I saw this movie with several friends and we all agreed that on this count it fell short &#150; you felt completely cheated and it was very much a case of a story that had great potential but didn't really know how to give the audience what they wanted.It probably would have been a better film if instead of skipping twenty years of dragons we'd have joined the movie a couple of years in; that is, right in the prime of the dragons' attack on mankind and the planet.Oh yeah &#150; look out for a very amusing STAR WARS parody in the first half of the movie. That was probably the highlight for me (well, aside from the trailer for RED DRAGON that preceded the film &#150; now that's a film I'm really looking forward to!)Overall, certainly not a bad film, but very much a wasted opportunity. Box office so far has been reasonable but I don't think a sequel is likely, which is probably a good and a bad thing. With a bigger budget, and a better understanding of what the public expects, a sequel could have maybe delivered something that Hollywood, nor REIGN OF FIRE, despite amazing CGI, cannot seem able to do &#150; produce the definitive dragon flick.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Critics just seem to keep piling on... Don't be too quick to follow the herd -- take a look at Elvis Michell's take in the NY Times. This picture has terrific energy, and touches a lot of good-old-fashioned archetypal chords. The acting is far from nuanced, but nuance would have just gotten buried, and Bale hits all the right notes as the guilt-ridden protector.Pictures like this do not stand or fall on plausibility, and there's little of that, here, but the human notes ring true. And boy, do those dragons look great. "},{"Title":"Hey nice looking dragons!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film had a bad script that was totally improbable and nonsensicalA London that was seemed entirly occupied with actors with very dodgy cockney accents <rolls eyes> It has some nice acting sincerely deleivering those dodgy linesMatthew McConi....peddling some damn fine pecs!!Christain Bale.....peddling some damn fine pecs!!Damn cool dragons!!Fine action sequences that were genuinely thrilling!All in all a mixed, daft and enjoyable bag!5/10 )Lord I loved those dragons! D  "},{"Title":"From all the special effects there is not much story","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had 3 reasons why go see this movie.. 1. Dragons 2. Special effects 3. Maybe it got a storyThe only thing i saw there was 1 special effect (Dragons) but where is the story? the movie begins ok..we see the little boy discovers the dragon nest, but then it get a time pushing by like 20 years, in this time push the directors put the story of the movie in (for my opinion bosnia war pictures) with involving of piece of news papers. here i think the directors should of put some special effects videos of the dragons and how they kill the world resources.Another thing i was disappointed about was that the story is too short, the male dragon gets killed too much fast with no complications. And please...Matthew McConaughey could of avoid the dragon's bite in van zen words(it's the magic hour, use it against the dragons) this dragon was looking pretty accurate for a dragon in Magic hoursThere were many more things wrong and right in this movie..but i have no power to write it all.So for the comment summary Go see this movie only if you want to see big dragons get killed by humans, some dragons\dragons fire special effects and some good sound effects (ONLY if in surround systems).  "},{"Title":"One word Wow!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I saw the movie I thought it would be some standard That-was-nice-now-forget-about-it-Action-Movie. But after the opening sequence I've been really impressed - the movie is visually extremely powerful, from the beginning to the end. Something that was even more astonishing The picture isn't as ironic as other Action-Movies. But because of that the distance between the public and the happenings on the screen is far more close. The apocalyptic future world which is shown is far more realistic and frightening than in any other movie I have ever seen! Very good The picture doesn't use all the cliches you know out of other movies - there are no cool jests in the most dangerous situations, there is no lovestory, no heroic music etc.Because of that, Reign of Fire is one of the best action-movies I have seen in the last years - intensive, exciting and really amazing. Just Wow! "},{"Title":"Apocalypse now for dragonslayers is surprisingly drab for a summer monster movie.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's always a shame when a big-budget is applied to a genre project like this; invariably, monster movies of this kind seem almost always to benefit from the creative energy and freedom that low budgets seem to inspire.  For the record, this one's a meandering view of a burnt-out future and how a bunch of rag-tag survivalists battle against rapidly reproducing dragons.  The dragon animation is only par and merely follows in the tradition of DRAGONSLAYER and DRAGONHEART.  The performances are routine and the two leads, Bale and McConnaughy, are a little too subdued in the macho department.  Matthew makes a failed attempt at toughness (a bald head, beard and tattooed body can't even cover up his girl-next-door persona).  Bale makes a brief buff appearance but gets very little action save a headbutt in an all too brief fight sequence.  Scorupco is totally wasted as a female protagonist and supposed love interest.   The whole thing is predictably victimized by the dreaded confines of the commercially imposed PG-13 rating.  The whole thing is by no means bad, but it ain't all that good, either.  "},{"Title":"The New Dragon Slayers","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found Reign of Fire to be okay.  I've seen better, I've seen worse.  They did use some good digital effects on the dragons.  But I suppose the story and acting left a little to be desired.  Still, at least this movie was considerably better than the likes of Godzilla and Dungeons & Dragons. "},{"Title":"Fire burns out after first time.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was an ok film.When I mean ok I mean good the first time,but after that it wouldn't be worth it.It has good action.The acting isn't bad I guess.If I had written this right after the time I had seen it, I would have recommended for people to see it on video.If you want a really good action movie to see on the big screen go see XXX.It is a hell ofa lot better.Reign of Fire=6 out of ten.   2 and a half out of five. "},{"Title":"good, but not great","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has a good concept dragons as actual animals instead of mystical sorts of creatures that go bump in the night. It also had good special effects, and alright acting. This is not the most amazing action/adventure mvoie  I have ever seen, however, there are some really good moments (some really funny ones even) and it's just generaly speaking alot of fun. It's out of theaters now, but, i think it's defently worth checking out at the video store. Not amazing, but, worth a look 7/10. "}{"Title":"Lots of soot -- SPOILERS","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is mostly a piece of apocalyptic fluff with an interesting premise. About the most enjoyable thing in it is Christian Bale's facial bone structure. Matthew McConaughey's appearances on-screen elicited a laugh nearly every time. He was trying to play nuts, but the bulging eyes and shaved head seemed terribly contrived. I'm thankful for the lack of sappy romance. I thought the plot got tied up a bit too neatly (boy who wakes up Poppa Dragon--thus causing the Apocalypse--is the One who kills aforesaid Big Daddy? And the Old Coot is the SINGLE key to freedom? Gimme a break. Lay it on a bit thick, won't ya...) Visually, some pretty nice stuff. I liked the touches of post-apocalyptic culture, derivative from what we know today. Wished they'd thought of bringing haircuts along, too. Lots of mops and soot. Oh, and huge plot holes. Giant ones. And meaningless deaths. Did I mention the lack of personal hygiene? ) It's a fun movie, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Great mix of action and story","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When you walk into this film just expecting some action and some story-telling, then you can't be disappointed. I'm a fellow Texan so I am admittedly biased towards Matthew McConaughey and this performance proved once again, how versatile he can be. His eyes were so intense, leaving me to be convinced that he WAS Van Zan. And if you've seen Amelie, then you know how important acting with the eyes is (Within the same week I saw him Frailty at the Fantasy Film Festival here). Christian Bale was also good (last saw him in American Psycho--ugh) and this model, turned actress Izabella something-or-other proved she could hold her own. I wished the film were a bit longer so as to accommodate more action sequences, but all in all I enjoyed this movie. It was definitely popcorn entertainment at its finest.  "},{"Title":"Well atleast the acting was good","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK here it is, Reign of Fire a special effects and dragon lovers dream finally hitting the big screen, right.  I mean how many people have been waiting to see what modern special effects could have done for Dragon Slayer???  Enough; but we also wanted a plot that made sense. This movie has above average special effects, cool dragons and great acting, so why are so many people disapointed PLOT!!!   Its hard to buy the fact that there are Dragon Slayers out there that are somewhat successful, but the US military has fallen to these beasts.  Not only that, but scientists without much equipment, seem to have done a better job analyzing these creatures then during the height of early 21st century science.  Hard to swallow.  And the methods they do use to kill dragons seem a little silly. Try mounting 20mm guns on the helicopter, Morons.   OK the next item list might imply some spoilers so turn back now, or proceed forward, save $9 and rent the movie later on in life.1) Why didnt the Castle dwellers have deeper tunnels to prevent burning? They have been there mining for years and are barely below the surface of the castle.2) Whats with the harpoon? Im thinking rocket launcers are more accurate and do more damage.3) Didnt the commercial state the creatures are Smarter than man Yeah that's why they attack alone, eat up their own food supplies and fall for the helicopter trap instead of just smoking it up.  They eat ash, why not just toast it first???4) If these people are starving, why didnt they celebrate the victory over the first dragon with a dragon steak barbeque?  How come they are surrounded by water and dont have fishing poles? again, Morons.WEAK PLOT.  GOOD ACTING. GOOD EFFECTS. "},{"Title":"A new twist on the Apocalypse!!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the fact that the movie had a fresh story line, one I hadn't seen before.  This is a good date movie, not too much blood and guts, action for the guys and eye candy for the ladies, in the forms of Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale.  The story moved along nicely, though I would've liked to see a bit more action at the end.  All and all, an entertaining time. "},{"Title":"A Very Grim Movie","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was very, grim, dark, dirty and depressing.  So why did I like it as much as I did?Well, the performances were excellent. I was especially impressed with Gerard Butler in his supporting role (is that his real accent?).  I've been watching for him ever since seeing his performance in Attila; his eyes are some of the most mesmerizing I've ever seen on screen (and that's no small feat when it's the small screen you see them on).  And if I ever doubted that Matthew McConaughey was a great actor I don't now I went through the whole movie not realizing that HE played Van Zan (of course, that could be just stupidity on my part).  And Christian Bale sure has....matured.  After seeing this movie I went home and watched Newsies again just to see if it was the same person.And the effects were excellent.  There was just enough to tease, and not go overboard, and then, towards the end, there was a payoff that gave some satisfaction for us special effects junkies out here.Would I see this movie again? Yeah, maybe.  Would I go and rent the DVD as soon as it came out? Absolutely.  Would I buy the DVD?  Probably.  So I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"An earnest popcorn film to munch on while waiting on the Two Towers","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The leads are sufficiently over-the-top when appropriate.  McCaughey, Bale and Scorpuco do the job that the script and genre require.  (Scorpuco, by the way, is a Michelle Pfeiffer clone in some scenes---she made me think back to Ladyhawke).  There are, of course, questions.  Why the dragons ruled the air except for the air that a certain helicopter must have been flying in (for years).  That type of thing.  But, otherwise, it's a nice treat of a movie.  The Star Wars reenactment is what puts the film a notch above for me. "},{"Title":"Fun as long as you don't expect too much","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for the same reasons that I enjoyed Jet Li's The One a couple of months ago.  I had a tough week, was tired, and basically just wanted to be entertained for 2 hours without having to do too much thinking. Because I went into this movie with the right expectations, I enjoyed what I saw and didn't bother myself with trying to analyze or figure out the plot.After reading a handful of reviews of this movie, I pretty much knew what to expect and what not to expect Some cool dragon scenes, some laughable dragon scenes, some people getting toasted, a crazed, post-apocalypse Matthew McConaughey, and some major plot gaps and inconsistencies.  All things considered though, it was fun.As long as you don't expect a plot that makes a lot of sense (i.e. accepting that McConaughey's army never has to worry about fuel problems for its tanks and helicopter), the only real knock on the movie is that there just isn't enough dragon action.  The few dragon scenes were definitely entertaining (save one, where the dragon looks like a water-colored cartoon), but on a planet overrun by the creatures we should have been treated to more people/buildings/anything getting roasted and eaten.  Thus, the only let down for me was that I wanted the dragons to be my favorite part of the movie, and unfortunately they weren't.That being said, for me anyway, McConaughey's character did a lot to make up for lost expectations.  While the role won't win Matt any awards, he really did a great job with it.  The new tatted-up, bald-headed look works well, and he brings the Van Zan character to life with equal zeal and psychotic-ness.  Not to mention that McConaughey's packing of hundreds of hours into the gym surely paid off when he drops his sleeve-less flight jacket and proceeds, via head-butts and all, to thrash Christian Bale's character.  I was most impressed, especially with his performance towards the end of the movie, with how well McConaughey played such a bad-a** character.All in all, I was not disappointed.  The caveat, however, was that I didn't go to this movie with high expectations.Finally, I'll say this Don't take your girlfriend to go see this movie, but if you have just finished one heck of a draining week, physically or mentally, its definitely worth an afternoon showing.  Entertainment value-wise, I'd compare it to Renny Harlin's Deep Blue Sea, but with cooler characters.Just don't waste too much energy trying to figure anything out, and just have fun with what you get. "},{"Title":"Goes up in smoke at room temperature","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire was disappointing on many levels, but none more so than in the gap between what was promised, and what was delivered.  Admittedly, this is largely the fault of marketing and advertising, and not the film-makers.  After all, it was the posters and the trailers that gave us images of mankind's greatest cities being decimated by vast herds of dragons.  Still, a bit more ambition on the part of the film-makers would have been appreciated.After a nice opening sequence, we're given the fall of human civilization in a five-minute narrated montage of newspaper headlines and magazine covers.  This has got to be the most underwhelming end-of-the-world sequence ever filmed.  If the film settled into a good story after this major mis-step, it would be forgivable, but sadly, this does not happen.Watch for minor spoilers aheadThe writers should have been made to understand that they could not have it both ways.  They make it a point to tell us repeatedly that dragons are not magical creatures, that they are flesh and blood, that they follow biological rules like any other species.  They then present us with the fact that dragons live on ash (why are they starving, by the way?  There seems to be plenty of ash), and that the entire planet's population of millions is propigated by a single male.The story flaws are legion, the most grevious of which is the ease with which the final solution comes together.  The plot falls prey to the lynchpin phenomenon, meaning that a rather simple act will bring the entire threat to its knees.  In other words, the writers painted themselves into a corner by making the problem insurmountable, and had to bull their way out of it.  This is not helped by the fact that the hero does not have to earn the information; it is simply dropped into his lap by another character who has already studied the problem.  The solution itself is idiotically simple.  We are told that the dragons stood up to every weapon conceived by man, including nuclear missiles.  Given the finale, this seems doubtful.The actors do their level best to elevate their material, but they're pushing water uphill.  Matthew McConaughey in particular is saddled with the very definition of a one-dimensional character, a caricature of American machismo who has nary a single line that is not a cliche.Add to this the fact that the only action sequence that creates any kind of tension makes no sense whatsoever (sky-diving to lure the dragons to the ground?  They don't seem to have any trouble approaching the ground at any other time), and you have a film whose potential goes completely unrealized. "},{"Title":"Godzilla Redux","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could have been so much better given the talent involved. A little more Mad Max - a little more sex - and those dragons - they are almost invisible - you only get a glimpse or two - very unsatisfying. The best scene was the fight scene between Christian & Matthew with Matthew showing off his buff tattooed torso - the movie needed more of that. I can tolerate the scene chewing if the scenes are interesting enough. Unfortunately there will be no sequel to this one. "},{"Title":"For the love of God.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I know that if you have read my previous submissions you will be wondering Why does this jerk go see these movies if they are so terrible? It is for the sole fact to keep virgin eyes from being defiled once they witness this craptacular cinematic event. The plot? It seems as if it was written by six year olds who hadn't taken their daily dose of ritalin. And believe me folks, it takes that kind of audience to witness this visual smorgasboard/abomination. It is a simple fact that this movie blew more than its numerous explosions. Christian Bale and Matthew McWhatever-his-name have turned this would be straight to video release into a theatrical farce. The plot (which is a term that any sane person would use loosely) centers around Dragons killing people in the future. The big bad men (Bale and company)come to stop the dragons and the entire film results in an absolute mockery of science fiction. To be honest, a better ending would involve Randy Quaid (of Independence Day fame) crashing an old crop duster into the writers, producers, and director of this film. (forgive the spelling errors) "}{"Title":"I expected a unintelligent monster movie, but was greatly surprised","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to Reign of Fire because all the current releases that interested me I had already seen. This was a last resort, and I was expecting a very stupid movie, with a horrible plot. However, R. of F. had a little bit of a far fetched plot, it worked, and I thought the cast was perfect. It is worth seeing if your in the mood for a decent action movie, with not much thought involved. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Summer Movie Action Package","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Every summer, a movie comes to theaters that is the action film of the summer. 'Reign of fire' is this summer's movie. It has heart pounding action and edge of your seat entertainment. This movie reveals a terrifying world under the reign of the most frightening creatures one could imagine. 'Reign of Fire' is The action movie of the summer! "},{"Title":"More dragons less drama, please.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went into this movie with fairly low expectations for the plot and high expectations for the special effects and the action.  I was more than a little disappointed to find that the biggest conflict in the film was between Quinn and himself.  Quinn (Christian Bale) turned out to be a very weak character he wanted the dragons dead but was unwilling to do anything about it himself.  Matthew McConaughey (Van Zan) is the flip side of the card, a tough anti-hero who has a singular purpose of destroying the dragons.  Izabella Scorupco (as helicopter pilot Alex Jensen) is the glue that binds the two together, and she gives an emotional and convincing performance as Van Zan's sidekick.  Alexander Siddig and Alice Krige put in appearances in bit parts.  As for the rest of the cast, never have so many done so little for so long.  Alex, Quinn, and Van Zan might as well have been the last three people on earth, and that might have been an interesting twist.There are only two real dragon-fighting scenes.  Mostly, it is just dragons torching unarmed civilians.  It makes Jurassic Park (1993) look like a fair fight.  It would have been nice to see someone else putting up a fight before the arrival of Van Zan.Much of the setting was advanced by a Time magazine article and flashing headlines that showed 20 years of destruction in text and still photographs.  They might as well have had someone walk across the screen with a sign that said And Time Passes.  The future was too bleak and desolate to dismiss the fall of mankind with a few flashed headlines.  The reign of fire happened too easily, and it seems the entire human race caved in to the dragons just as Quinn did.Other points (like Where's the oxygen coming from? and How do the dragons metabolize ash?) go unanswered and would have been less nagging if the plot didn't drag quite so badly between the action scenes. "},{"Title":"Best CGI Dragons ever","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The dragons are really cool and look real, certainly better than the computer creatures in AOTC. How this movie gets better computer animals than Episode II, I don't know. But, there should have been more dragons in ROF. There are supposedly millions of them, but we only get to see a few.  The story was OK, but certain elements were missing. (SPOILERS) They should have shown how the dragons destroyed all the cities. And how could they have known there was only 1 male dragon. Rather silly. And at the end, all the female dragons just drop dead because they killed the male dragon?  I mean, the reign of dragons should have lasted many more decades because the millions of dragons left would have still have had to die out.ROF could have used a little more humor. The only funny lines were during the Star Wars skit.  None of the characters were great.  Matthew McConaughey's Van Zan was OK, but I was expecting more crazy stunts from him.  I didn't care for how he died either. Sure he was doing something crazy by jumping like that, but I would rather had seen him skydiving going right after one of the dragons.   And why didn't the male dragon roast Christian Bale when it had the chance. I thought all the dragons were starving, so why didn't it just eat him when he stood right in front of it.(END OF SPOILERS)Since this is a summer action movie, I was not expecting a great plot or acting. So, I think it was OK for what it was set up to be.FINAL VERDICT  Cool dragons, a lot of plot holes.  And don't be misled by the poster. The one helicopter really doesn't have a lot to do with killing the dragons. I saw this for the matinee price.  It probably isn't worth full price. "},{"Title":"A very bad movie","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a very big movie buff and I have to say that this movie is horrible and I don't how anyone would see this movie.  I mean i saw it because my friend James forced me to go and it was a slap in the face of filmmaking.  There was one scene in the movie that I really liked was a scene where Matthew McConaghey was talking to the people of a fortress about being grateful of pride and honor.  The whole plot is about fire breathing dragons that take over the world and the populus of the world is forced to live in warfare.  The people only live on one objective and that is to run and hide.  Christian Bale is a British commander of a fortress meant to give shelter to innocent families and orphans.  Until one day, Van Zan(Matthew McConaghey), a soldier who hunts and kills dragons for a living alongside an army troop that hunts with him.  There's also an interesting way of hunting dragons that they use in which skydiving daredevils, called ArchAngels, jumps from a chopper and chases the dragons leading the dragons into a position where the troops can hunt them down.  The only way they can stop the dragons from spreading is to kill the only male dragon in the dragon's populus and they didn't have to worry about anything else about the dragons.  Really, the writers didn't think this movie out and they didn't use logic for anything. I give this movie a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"All Special Effects","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked the special effects, but after awhile aren't we going to get tired of this stuff if there isn't something else to go with it?Acting, character development, really caring about or wondering about what will happen next? "},{"Title":"A fun and personal new take on the post-apocalyptic storyline.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Solid performances, interesting what if story, top notch cinematograghy. Definitely worth a theater viewing, though lacking in some of the story elements we'd wish in a dragons in modern times type tale.  On the other hand, that lack is made up for in a more personal story line told as well with words as the cinematography.  Gritty, emotional, and funny in the right places. "},{"Title":"Watch Out. They're Back!!!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Basically a pretty good movie, that I feel is no better, no worse than a lot of stuff produced these days. The plot has been told already, but here goes. Dragons come back, wipe out most of the life on earth. Survivors finally forced to end it one way or the other. Go see it to find out who wins. I like the acting in the movie. Mcconaghey was just right for a desperate, partially insane survivor. You live for 12 years in that hell and lets see how well adjusted you would be. Bale was believable as the leader of what he felt might be the only people left on Earth, and he wanted to lay low and live. Now about the nit-picking mentioned so far...1. Fuel was probably carried on board the C-5 Van Zan used to come to England. Thats a big plane folks. (Big!!!) Probably salvaged some in England too.2. They salvaged a lot of equipment in England when they arrived. How do I know. Most of the vehicles and weapons were British. (Yeah, I know the film was made in England, thats what was available. Exactly, that would be what was available if you did the same thing as Van Zan did.3. Why didnt they use anti-tank missiles and anti-air missiles on the dragons? Good idea. They probably killed millions of dragons. After 12 years of apocalyptic-level war, how many of those weapons would be left. Not to mention fighters, tank, soldiers to use them. Remember, the factories are above ground, the work force is above ground. You try to produce weapons when the factory is being destroyed around you.4. Radiation. There have been hundreds of nuclear tests in Nevada since the first atom bomb in 1945. Doesnt look nuked to me.5. The one male Dragon idea. Lots of animals in nature drive away/kill competing males so that they can have all the females look how competitive many human males are at a bar on ladies night)(. He probably killed any at birth he found. Maybe his aerosol-like sperm is all X (as in XX vs. XY chromosome).6. How did they know how to find him. One comment mentioned satellite imagery. okay. Since he is about ten times as big as the females that would tend to show up I think. Spy satellites (KY-11 etc... would be able to tell that much easily.)Anyway my point is this, A lot of the things in this movie are feasible. If you suspend your disbelief.Isnt that what a fantasy/science fictions story asks in the first place. "},{"Title":"One giant big plot hole","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm wondering how a movie about a global war between humansand dragons could be so boring.From the incredible misleading poster, one would assume thatthere would be some good action and battles in the movie. thereare but not like you think. spoilers-No helicopters versus dragons. A dragon does attack ahelicopter briefly. No tanks versus dragons. Mostly humans versusdragons. Or rather humans versus one or two dragons.Most of the movie is spent setting up why dragons attack or whatwhat happened after the prologue and before the main section ofthe story takes place. What is really does is set up giant plot holesthat make the story look like a dragon sized slice of wafer thinswiss cheese.The acting is good, but so what , it is in service to nothing. There isalso no humor at all. So it's hard to like anyone, because they areare all so damn serious. No humor or tongue in cheek in a movieabout earth vs. dragons? A serious misfire.It would be one thing to take the tone completely serious if it isgonna be serious non-stop brutal action. But they don't do that,there is very little action. Actually with the exception of the movielooking big it seems like some low budget b-movie without themoney to do what the premise needs it to do.Very disappointing. Lots of missed potential. It feels like it wasover-edited and re-worked because of bad first screenings.Someone chopped this movie into a big mess.  "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire isn't going to win any Oscars, but that's ok, because it's not trying.  What it is trying to be is a good-ol' monster movie and it works.  It doesn't try to be anything more than what it is and therein lies its strength.Sure, much of it doesn't make sense, like where did Van Zan et al. gas up the chopper & tanks and keep supplied with ammo? But if you can buy a movie with dragons then such questions shouldn't bother you.There are no great plot twists - the story os pretty straight forward.  You should be able to predict who's going to die based solely on the trailer (and you'd be right) but that's ok, too.  This isn't Dragon's Sixth Sense or The Usual Dragon Suspects or even Dragonfly (groan, OK, sorry), so twists aren't needed, just nasty dragons, lots of fire and some good battle scenes, and that is what you get.This is a perfect summer matinee, the kind of movie popcorn was invented for.  If you want dragon fun, then this is it.  "}{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When it comes to fantasy/sci-fi type films, there's many different takes on the subject matter. How much of it is believable, how much is too over the top. How effective are the visual effects used and whether the material is taken too seriously or played for jokes.My personal approach to this particular genre is-Do the actors do credit to their roles_Are we looking at nothing but 2 hours of special effects or is their actually something called a story involved._Is it entertaining.These three guidelines, if you will, is how I measure A good film from a bad one. The last one being the real deciding factor.Reign of Fire has many flaws, details are obviously overlooked that could have been explained with better screenwriting, but despite this, the movie is still entertaining.  I preferred Christian Bale's performance over Matthew McConauhey's, personally it was more believable, but it doesn't harm the film to the point where I can't still enjoy it. The scenes with the dragons were well done, especially the scene with a whole flock of them circling London, another, when it's perched on the old castle. The plot wasn't very detailed or thought out. But it had enough to keep some interest. I agree with some other commenters that the dragon was taken out a bit too soon, but was relieved that it did not stay around too long and keep coming after them no matter how many shots it had taken.(It's not a cyborg). One of the better aspects of this film was the feeling of suspense that builds when anticipating the arrival of the dragon(s).Overall it was entertaining and I refuse to pick it apart with alot of details. It's a fantasy story. I leave that critique to the dramas and action films. Good film for the monster lovers and not a bad flick for a Saturday afternoon at the movies.  "},{"Title":"cool effects, bad plot","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  More and more these days I see a preview of a movie, and decide to go and see it just for the special effects in it. This can be one of those movies. The movie had everything necessary to make it a good movie, it just never quite made it. "},{"Title":"Good but...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movie, but I did have problems with it. I really think they could have done a much better job with the script. The dragons were very well done, and it was an interesting premise. But...Where did Van Zan get the fuel for his vehicles and the helicopter? Why did Quinn have fire suits for his people, but Van Zan didn't for his? Why should there be only one male dragon to fertilize all the eggs? Etc...One stupid scene - Van Zan and Quinn fighting each other. That's a great time in the movie for a restroom trip.One great scene - London with the dragons flying around.Otherwise, wait for the dvd and rent it. IMHO. "},{"Title":"Decent Sci-Fi","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're a Sci-Fi fan, go see this movie, you won't be disappointed.If you're not a Sci-Fi fan, skip it, you will feel like you wasted $5.This movie is not brilliant, nor genre-twisting, nor particularly memorable, but it is entertaining, and well-made, and you really can't ask for much more from a movie these days.I suppose the nicest thing, for me, was that the special effects didn't dominate the film, unlike Minorty Report and Episode Two.  The story is decent, the acting is fairly good, and it moves along without really dragging down.  There are some very funny lines scattered throughout, and of course, the dragons are fun to watch.6/10 "},{"Title":"Short on substance, but effects are worth seeing...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had me on the edge of my seat with its breathtaking special effects and breakneck pace.  However, be prepared to leave your desire for a tight storyline and interesting dialog at home.  After a railroad crew accidentally unearths a dragon's lair, Quinn, the young son of a railroad engineer, unwittingly wakes the sleeping dragon, who then promptly escapes its underground prison to breed at an unfathomable rate.  The dragons then proceed to unleash a reign of terror and fire upon the land.The living creatures on planet Earth are decimated almost to extinction in a matter of years not only by the dragons, but also through the stupidity of the various governments of the world, who in the end try to nuke the reptiles to death but only succeed in creating a virtual all-you-can-eat buffet of the very ash that the dragons apparently need to eat in order to survive.  Oh, and please don't ask how the planet escaped any kind of nuclear winter or radiation poisoning.Cut to 18 years later and we find our little Quinn has survived into adulthood, a man who speaks worse English as a man than he did as a boy. Played by the talented Christian Bale, Quinn is now just a pale, hollow-faced husk of a man in charge of a quasi-fortress in a Northern England castle filled with survivors intent on outliving the damnable beasts.  There's a wonderful moment of levity early on where Quinn and his friend Creedy act out the infamous lightsaber fight between Luke and Darth Vader at the end of Empire Strikes Back for a gasping and transfixed audience of children.Enter the ugly American, played by an over-the-top Matthew McConaughey, who literally grunts through most of the movie as Denton, a pumped-up, tattooed George C. Scott on steroids (Patton cigar and all), who arrives by tank with a small militia of dragon slayers to save the day.  His female sidekick, Alex, commands a helicopter and crew of bolo men (a gladiator term from ancient Rome) called Archangels, whose job it is to skydive at an alarming speed and net the wings of the dragon who would fall to earth and be blown to bits by Denton's rocket launcher.  Sound like fun?  Well, given that their life expectancy is 17 seconds after they leave the chopper, I would say Nay.The dragons were really the stars of this picture.  Incredible animation and special effects truly bring these frightening creatures to life, Jurassic Park style.  All in all, an entertaining film, albeit short on substance. I give it a solid B.  "},{"Title":"Christian Bale and the dragons were great!!!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christian Bale was terrific...  the film would've been even better without the over-acting of matthew mcconaughey, indeed he was badly miscast in this and shouldn't have been in it at all. The rest of the cast was fine. The best dragons since Dragonslayer. "},{"Title":"So much fun!!!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a well known fact among my friends that although I may be fearless when it comes to certain things (like riding my teeny brained, speed of light horse across hither and also yon) when it comes to a) spiders and b) creature movies I am a gianormous wimp. The only thing that got me through the theater door for Reign of Fire was the fact that it was about dragons, not insects, Rob Bowman (X-Files Fight the Future) was directing, and that Matthew McConaughey seemed to spend a great deal of time displaying his muscles. I thought I would be OK. After all, dragons aren't flapping about anywhere right now, so I thought the dismay factor would be slim to none. Little did I realize that Anthony Hopkins was lurking in the trailers waiting to scare me to death.  The idea of watching dragons demonstrate their new landscaping plans for earth (basic ash black) may not frighten you, but the trailer for Red Dragon that comes before the movie is enough to petrify even the most stoic of slasher film veterans. I love Sir Anthony `Homicidal Loon' Hopkins dearly, but if I ever run into him on the street, I'm going to flee cartoon style in the opposite direction until I manage to put several time zones between us. How that man ever chances to leave his house without having droves of people passing out in terror upon spotting him I really don't know.Reign of Fire, completely defying my less than stellar expectations, is one of the most fun movies I've seen so far this summer. Set in 2020, the earth has become a ruin, having been ravaged by dragons. Human survivors are few and far between, and those who have managed to elude the winged creatures are in hiding. It is in one of the last remaining outposts that we find the two unlikely heroes of the story; Quinn, the group's fire chief, and Van Zan, the dragon slayer to lead them into battle. Christian Bale (American Psycho, Swing Kids) stars as the aloof leader, Quinn. Bale spends his on screen time (quite unlike his fluffy summer movie counterparts) taking his role seriously, which definitely helps the audience to do the same. Though at times his role does take a leap into the realm of silliness, the good far outweighs the bad. Bale's eyes are absolutely haunted in spots, and his incarnation of the tortured young boy who first saw the beasts that would bring about the end of the world who grows into the peaceful leader is affable, intelligent and strong. I am quite impressed by his ability to a) sit on a horse, and b) pour half a bottle of iodine into an open wound without his head exploding. Matthew McConaughey (A Time to Kill, Dazed and Confused) stars as dragon slayer Van Zan (aka Commander Fruit Loop) and has totally sunk his teeth into this larger than life role. McConaughey plays Van Zan as a slightly more psychotic version of R. Lee Ermey (Full Metal Jacket) His mood swings make for a slightly cartoonish character, but he's so much fun to watch that you never really mind. If Bale's Quinn could be imagined running through Dragonheart, McConaughey's Van Zan is the Mad Max element to the story. His grittiness, and energies are perfect summer movie fare.Though Reign of Fire does offer its share of incredibly predictable moments (i.e. the cannon-fodder scene where a group of men decide to go spelunking down a tunnel that a little boy has just come careening out of, bleeding out his eyes, screaming that `there's something down there!!') it does show a remarkable amount of stylish smarts. Everything from the dragon ravaged London, to my amusement at realizing that once again, though the rest of the world may be destroyed by fanciful creatures Canada has been left alone (like in ID4) adds to the bite of this film. It's usually the case that I am the absolute worst person to have with you when watching a creature movie of any kind. Outside the theatre, I am completely hip, inside a shrieking ninny, watching from behind my hands. I find most of these movies to be frightening beyond belief. Reign of Fire doesn't fall into that type of movie though, being all about the people, the survivor's spirits, rather than displaying how many humans a dragon can consume in 90 minutes. Rob Bowman has done a great job here, refusing to let this fantastic tale be overwhelmed by the heat of the beasts contained within it's borders. A must see.       "},{"Title":"Dragons were cool - but monotonous presentation","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While Reign of Fire is a well mounted mish-mash of Road Warrior visuals and Dragonslayer story telling - the end result feels oppressive and hollow.The problems I have with the film remain mainly with the humorless directing and the self-serious scripting.  At no point did I ever believe that dragons could be responsible for the destrution of so much of the earth. I couldn't buy the premise (and believe me I wanted to)  If one actor had made a comment about how ridiculous the idea of skydiving past a dragon to draw it's fire was - I would've enjoyed much more of this film.  Instead everyone recites their lines is the same tough as nails style - which got old fast.It's not the performer's fault - McConaughey fares well as an ex-soldier turned dragon slayer.  However, there are very few character qualities for the audience to hold on to.A great deal of work ha been put into the dragons - and they are frightening beasts - but they are also one note creatures.  Their only purpose is to pop-up every so often in the film and barbeque another actor.I give it a final rating of Five.  The actors try and the effects are good. The film is well shot and and edited effectively- but in the end I didn't have much fun with this film - and it really should have been. "},{"Title":"This is, simply put, an AWESOME movie!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  From the looks of it, this movie is crashing and burning at the box office - and I really don't understand that at all. This is one of the best movies I've seen all year, and I've seen most of the ones out there! I guess it depends on your taste, of course, but I love good action movies and I really love character studies and this is what Reign Of Fire is really all about. The dragons are, obviously, the catalyst for what's going on, but the real meat of the picture is Christian Bale's performance as the passive armageddon survivor intent on keeping his community safe at all costs. He's challenged on all sides; members of his own family question the wisdom of his decision to lay low and avoid confrontations with the fire-breathers, and the newcomers led by McConaughey try to rally Bale's followers to his own cause - to take on the dragons. This conflict, and seeing how it plays out, was what captured my imagination about this film. The fact that the special effects were incredible and that the action scenes rocked were just icing on the cake! AWESOME movie! "},{"Title":"great visuals, disappointingly short","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was too short, I left the theatre feeling as if I hadn't watched a movie at all. The visuals were great, I loved seeing the dragons, but the story itself fell short here and there. For instance, they rush off to find the dragon's lair and kill it, and get immediately toasted. What an anti-climax! At the end of the movie we're left with so many unanswered questions. We barely even find out that the dragons eat ash - it's only hinted at and not even said outright.I would recommend seeing the movie for what it offers, but plan on seeing another movie that day or you will not have a good theatre experience. "}{"Title":"Where are all the dragons?","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, with a movie like Reign of Fire, you can't possibly expect an oscar caliber movie, especially one that has such a B-Movie look to it.  But, I still paid to see it, since it looked like it had promise, and a good Mad Max ripoff.  I wish, like so many other reviewers on this site, that I had waited until this had come out on video.First, I will list the good qualities.  The setting, though bleak, is really interesting.  The survivors are holding out in a modified castle, and are rebuilding their lives away from the dragons that live in the remnants of the World's big cities (Paris, London, etc...).  This concept in itself is just cool, and in a way, very believable (Two of the leaders even act out a scene from The Empire Strikes Back to the children, since there is no TV or radio anymore...What a cool idea!) but that's where the believability stops. Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey were excellent in this film, giving very believable performances.  The believability with the movie itself however, (besides the acceptance of dragons taking over the world, and our great militaries having been defeated) drops when Van Zan and his troops come in the picture.  This is where the movie begins to fall flat.  I will say the paratrooper scene was exciting and very original, though, it amazes me how they said they killed so many dragons with this technique when the survival rate is 17 seconds?!?  Where did they get the endless supply of soldiers?  Oh wait, this goes into the negative part of the review.The negatives, unfortunately, far outweight the positives.  Though most people on this site have mentioned this, I will mention it b\c it frustrated the hell out of me during the whole movie.  Where did they get the gasoline to fuel all of their tanks and the helicopter?  How did all of the soldiers survive for so long, with what looked like maybe two truckloads of supplies? How do the two main leads look so ripped and physically in great shape when their food supply is next to nothing?  Oh, these and many more quesitons arise when watching this movie...oh, and they are so frustrating too...it is usually easy to overlook certain inaccuracies in a movie, but a movie about survival that has huge inaccuracies about survival?  That's a big problem, indeed.Another problem I had is the action, or lack there of.  Another reviewer hit the nail on the head, where were all the dragons?  I was really mad to see that one dragon was capable of destroying entire populations of people, and that the people's weapons had no impact on them whatsoever.  I wanted to see humans fighting off hordes of dragons in huge melees, tearing them to pieces with automatic weapons and whatnot.  Of the few dragons they actually do come in contact with (you can count them with less than the fingers on one of your hands) they sure get their butts kicked, even with great weaponry. And even so, I don't want to see a picture where we, as humans fighting for survival, get toasted continuously, I want to see some a$$ kicking, you know like soldiers going nuts and tearing the dragons (whom, after all the destruction, one grows to dispise very quickly) to pieces.  I mean, if for anything, how about for pleasing the crowd?  I went into this film thinking that dragons as the villains was not the best idea, and this was constantly confirmed as the film dragged on.  There are a few good scenes, but from an action standpoint, it reminded me a lot of the flop, Godzilla, where hundreds of bullets are flying and not harming the average looking CGI at all...it's like, what's the point in having guns at all if they are not going to at least make a dent in the dragons?  We as the audience thrive for those thrills, especially when man overcomes huge obstacles and comes out on top.  There really aren't any crowd pleasing scenes from a summer action flick...that is disappointing.Overall, this was an okay movie, it actually defines mediocre.  I believe this movie could have been ten times better with, and I hate to say this, less about the people and more with the dragons (I hate to sacrifice plot development, but hey, this is a summer action flick afterall).  I'll give this one a 5 out of 10 for an interesting plot, good acting and a great and appropriate, dreary setting.  The other five stars would have been alotted for thrills, suspense and fun...however, Reign of Fire has very few of any of those qualities.  Wait until it comes out on video and you've seen everything else. 5/10. "},{"Title":"i came out happy, thats always a good thing.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i liked this movie, usually the post apocalyptic thing bothers me, but it was alrigh this time. alot cool ideas went into this movie and was fun. i didnt know what to expect from this movie but i came out happy, thats always a good thing. it would have been better as a war movie instead of a struggle for survival one.  more guns, less kids. and thats all i have to say about that "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Concept...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is very different and very interesting.  It has a concept that, as far as I know, has never been exploited on the silver screen before.  The movie has excellent execution of story and the acting was superb.   The concept that dragons are sleeping in the bowels of the earth waiting for life to replenish itself thus replenishing the food supply for this ancient life form.  Then awakened by man's digging and drilling, they reemerge to gorge themselves on flesh and burn the world to ash (which is also necessary for their survival).  20 to 30 years later they remaining humans fight a desperate battle to survive.  A very dark film with a bright ending. "},{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll admit that the only reason i saw this movie was because Christian Bale was in it. Once again Christian is brilliant. The movie wasn't that bad. The story line could of been a little bit better and they could of showed the dragons a lot more.  "},{"Title":"Great special effects, reasonable acting but the story-line & plot are a bit thin.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has some truly AWE-INSPIRING special effects, I found the dragons EXTREMELY believable. Their ability to breathe fire was dealt with quite well. I felt that most of the acting was at a high standard. I was able to experience the depth of the characters personalities with only a little effort. It is a pity that the plot elements are not up to par with both the acting and the scale of production.The greatest difficulty I had was that I could not become completely absorbed in the experience of the movie. It was almost as if I kept being reminded by the lack of depth in the plot Well this is only a movie and they don't have time to deal with this. Having said that, the plot leans quite heavily on action & suspense to carry itself, and several times had me on the edge of my seat. A note of caution for Americans - this movie has very strong British accents with most of the characters, I'm a Kiwi so it didn't phase me, but it sure might affect an Americans overall experience.All in all, A movie you can be entertained by, but don't expect too much or you'll likely be disappointed. "},{"Title":"too much draggin' and not enough dragons","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think there is about three minutes of dragon footage, total, in this excuse for a movie.  The rest is shots of gray landscapes and shirtless men arguing.  The shirtless men must be a nice sight for the ladies but, alas, they did nothing for me.I always think that post-apocalyptic movies are going to be great, but rarely do they ever create a compelling universe for their characters to live in.  Life in this movie consists of running, hiding, digging, and arguing about when the best time is to harvest the tomatoes.  I was not deeply involved.  Director Rob Bowman seems to be in love with vehicles; this film worships tanks, trucks, helicopters, etc.  It's a shame that more time couldn't be spent on people instead of hunks of metal.  And the vehicles don't even do anything cool.  I kept waiting, and waiting, for the big tank to fight a dragon.  Didn't happen.  The whole film is gray and dull, just like Bowman's previous work on The X-Files.  And while I don't expect logic from a sci-fi movie, this plot is so hole-ridden it defies description.  Suffice to say that the origin of the dragons is silly and contrived, and so is their final defeat.The most important question to ask about a film like this is was it more fun than the alternative, sitting at home?  Nope.  To quote an oft-used criticism of this film - too much draggin' and not enough dragons.  "},{"Title":"Steaming pile of dragon turd","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I wasted $5.25 and two hours of my time on this steaming pile of dragon turd. From the previews it looked like it had so much potential to be a really cool film.The special effects were nothing special. Acting was average. Plot was full of holes so big you could fly a dragon through them. Started out with just 1. No explanation of how the opposite sex came into being. I guess after Jurassic Park we all just assume that a single sex can become males and females.Really faulty presumption that there is only one male dragon. If that's true, and if you consider the previous assumption about sexual generation, if you kill the male, one of the females will become male.There was so much potential to make it a more interesting film. Instead it was just Dragonslayer, Jaws and about a dozen other men against beast films all over again.  "},{"Title":"Very good flick - well worth admission","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes you walk into a theatre not knowing much about the movie you're about to see except for the barest of bones of a plot. Sometimes you walk out wishing you could have your three hours back. Othertimes, you walk out thinking the experience was *much* better than you'd hoped.That's how I felt after seeing Reign of Fire. It's a rare occurance; Matrix and the original Die Hard were two movies I walked into thinking they would be so-so and they turned out to greatly surprise me. That's a wonderful experience, if you ask me. A tremendous feeling of satisfaction, like you earned the money you spent. You probably know by now the plot of this movie. It's a visualization of numerous science-fiction novels from past decades, where the modern world is thrown kicking and screaming back into the Dark Ages. In this instance, it's a large male dragon unleashed by unsuspecting British construction workers. The dragons breed like locusts, so fast that most of us can't comprehend the extent of the numbers until it's too late.The movie is set in England, another plus. Too many times these movies are spent in America and I think it's nice to transport the movies to other world locales. Britain is the perfect setting because humans, once again, find themselves holed up in castle fortresses, about the only thing that are keeping the dragon hordes at bay. Inside the castle is a refreshing mix of modern technology and 16th Century living, where modern-day gadgets rub shoulders with tales of fantasy, fairy-tale and the supernatural. This is one of the few movies that captures what is can normally be told in the pages of a books, and it's this blending of ages - and an almost intoxicating gritty, dirty atmosphere that blankets this movie from start to end - that makes Reign of Fire work so well.The British are a tough people. They always have been. Probably always will be. And inside their castles that dot the Isle, the scattered remains of the once great British Empire are found struggling and making ends meet even as dragons buzz bomb them from the skies, much like the Nazis did to London and surrounding countryside during the early days of World War II.Down the road in a cloud of dust comes the Americans, making one Britian quip, The one thing worst than a dragon are Americans. Well, as an American, I didn't mind seeing the Americans in this movie portrayed as warriors pure and pure. After all, it seems to be America's legacy to bail Europe and its people time and time again out of trouble, and we don't fail this legacy in this movie. What should keep the Europeans from screaming Americanism at the top of their lungs, however, is that this movie is essentially about Europeans - Britians in general - and how a Britain (SPOILER ALERT) eventually is the one that brings down the baddie. But like in World War 1, World War II, etc, etc, etc, the British people would not have been able to survive without the aid of their longtime upstart colonists, the good 'ol U.S of A.There are some good action sequences throughout the movie, as well as some good shocking moments with the dragons, particularly in the tomato field and when the male dragon was prepping for his attack on the American armored column. Great stuff. The sky-driving dragon bait part, however unrealistic, was at the very least entertaining. Although I think we could have come up with a better way to lure the dragons to the guns... (shrug)In a movie of this type, I kept expecting your typical 'Hollywood' cliches to pop up throughout the movie - but they never occurred. There were no cheesy one-liners or no smiles and puns spoken during the heat of battle. The music, directing, and screenplay were all top-notch. And again, I loved it seeing a man in an American M-1 battle tank with a crossbow in his hands and battle axe slung over his shoulder. Those shots alone would make a great movie poster for the wall.And who can fault dragons? Not since the days of Dragonslayer have seen dragons take to the sky and spit forth fire down on the heads of humans hunting them. This is no CGI Godzilla or mind-controlled dragons from the dredge that was Dungeons and Dragons. These dragons are smart, stalk their play and, like cats with mice, even stalk and play with their human prey. Rejoice!Although the subject matter was fantastical, the movie never did step into that area. For that - and for the great, midievil atmosphere and to see a helicopter taking on a flying dragon, I give this movie 8.2 of 10.Go see it. It's better than a rental from Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"would be amazing if not for one VERY large flaw","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, when I saw the trailer for Reign Of Fire, I really wanted to see it (I have a soft spot for dragon movies).  So I finally saw this movie tonight, and my friend and I discussed it, and here's what I came up withThe film itself was beautiful.  It was a pleasure to watch, the colors used are awesome greys and blues and really give you the drab post-apocalyptic feel, the cinematography is superb... it was just really easy on the eyes, I think the Rob Bowman did a superior job (WITH WHAT HE WAS GIVEN).The special effects were flawless, although I would have liked to seen the dragons a little bit more in detail a la Jurassic Park, it seems they are always far away, but still great special effects.  The music fits perfectly, really a treat to listen to all the way through.The acting was pretty good, McConaughey is really good as badass Van Zan, and Bale provides a dead on British accent as Quinn.  Scorupco didn't have much depth, but aside from her the cast did well (WITH WHAT THEY WERE GIVEN).Now as to what they were given, there was not a whole lot.  In my opinion, anything conatined in the script for this movie was garbage.  The dialogue was absurd at many times, with lines like, We can do this two ways the easy way, or the very easy way, which make you want to stand up and say, What the hell was that supposed to mean?  Aside from the dialogue, the plot has more holes than the clothing in this film.  Soooooooo many things happen where you wonder where the hell things came from, just like Waterworld.  Apparently when 3 million dragons take over the entire planet and burn everything in existence to a crisp, people still have computers, electricity, fuel, fire extinguishers, and satellites.I thought visually this movie was a real treat to watch, but there is one flaw, the script.  Reign Of Fire had real potential... it could have been a 10 for me had the script been halfway decent, but it isn't, so i gave it a 5 based on the visual alone. "},{"Title":"I have one question...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How did the dragons beat the fighter jets such as the Mig-29s, F-16s, and F-18s???The fighter jets mentioned above move 100x faster than the dragons, can go much higher in altitude than the dragons, and shoot missiles from a mile away!A regular guy with a grenade crossbow can kill a dragon, but the most sophisticated and technologically advanced jets couldn't beat them?It was also very absurd how there could be only ONE male dragon...  I guess it gave the director an easy way to conclude the movie.Only good thing about this movie  cool-looking dragons. "}{"Title":"If you love Dragons, you must see this!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. The trailers just don't do it justice. I use to play D&D, and dragons were always my favorite monsters. This movie did not disappoint me.This movie, although it is technically a sci-fi, lives up to the myths and legends of dragons in the context of real creatures that have been dormant since the age of the dinosaurs. The first scene where the young Quinn runs into the first of these beasts truly gave me the chills. It reminded me of the first time you see the queen alien in Aliens, except there's MORE to come! This movie also has a wonderful music score that heightens the fear on screen. Though there are some plot holes which will become obvious (like why didn't they ever use heat-seeking missiles to blow these puppies out of the sky?), they don't distract you from the story.I recommend you see this in the biggest movie theater you can, because these dragons have a serious mean streak that deserves the best projection and sound available. "},{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok. let's get to the point1. Dragons do not exist.. so how do you know there can't be just one male to populate all the females.2. Dragons do not exist so how do you know how they would react to what3. Dragons do not exist so why should you expect this movie to be REALISTIC?????????????????/4. that  was the MOST Realistic dragon I HAVE EVER SEEN in any movie I have ever watchedThe acting and the characters in this movie were great contrary to what most of the other people here seem to think. Just pay close attention to van zeen and his emotions. Without saying much you can tell in his demeanor and his actions and his facial expressions about how much this man has had to endure over the years and the hard choices he has had to make.Where did the gas come from .. hmm well let's see we have underground bunkers here that are suppose to be able to survive nuclear attack.. hmmm silly me do you think me might actually keep supplies of fuel under there??? OH NO don't tell the Russians.old ships could have very easily taken the men over there from America.. maybe the helicopter was not FLOWN from America... maybe it was carried on a ship.. or perhaps ... oh no .. here is a big stretch of the imagination.. it seems to me that we have bases in Europe.. you don't think we might have underground stuff stored there too do you??? oh man.. that would explain the fuel canisters I saw on the back of the helicopter..oh yeah.. we still probably have satellites.. saw nothing to me to suggest these dragons can survive in outer space..I went to this movie to have fun and enjoy it not pick out every little pot flaw that you could find in any movie you wanted to. It's SCIENCE FICTION People not SCIENCE FACT enjoy the movie and stop trying to rationalize everything ) just have fun )  "},{"Title":"entertaining thrill ride","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this may contain spoilers so be warned. Actually by this time you should have already seen the movie. this movie was very enjoyable, and anyone making picky quirks/problems still does not know how to enjoy a sci-fi. The writing for the actors could be questionable but not the content. There was never any indication that this was a big budget film, so of course the few dragon shots are less than perfect, but who cares. one of the main focuses of a sci-fi is to never take it seriously whereas I should go see the film, watch the good action sequences and walk away entertained. Anyone who goes into the movie looking for imperfections may be disappointed, so whats the point in going? The movie offered everything one saw in the trailers.  No more no less. Reign of Fire was worth the price of a ticket and, as far as action goes, beat out the other sci-fi movie this summer Attack of the clones. "},{"Title":"grimy oily grey dismal eye-smearing","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not 'gray' but 'grey.'  I figure I saw less than half the film, because so much of it was telephoto shots zoomed-in on fast action in dim light; super-fast cutting between scenes, many cuts so fast I couldn't really tell what was going on.  I wonder if today's young movie-goer is able to see any more detail than I do, or if they simply accept this type of rapid scene cutting as 'cutting edge' and think it's wonderful just because it is the fashion?  I liked Mad Max, but this film seemed too bent on duplicating it in a different setting.  What a waste of good actors; good-looking actors who are hidden behind oily grimy grey makeup.  Supposedly McConaughey & Bale toned up their bodies for these roles, but I think the previews showed more of them than was seen in the film itself.  I wish I had waited to see this on video, because it sure was a waste of time getting to the theater, not to mention not worth the matinee price I paid to get in. "},{"Title":"A fabulous b-movie romp","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderfully over the top with Matthew Mconoughy ripping off his shirt at the drop of a hat.  If that wasn't enough, a beautifully homoerotic fight scene with an equally gorgeous Christian Bale.  Dialogue, plot, and characters are b-movie style with a-rate stars and effects.  Utterly and fantastically over the top action scenes.  Shot in Cinemascope to accomodate the fights with dragons which are plenty suspenseful without being too involving.  Above all, doesn't try to be anything that it's not. "},{"Title":"More Postman than Road Warrior","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie got off to a slow start, but it soon began to drag, and eventually came to a long-awaited anticlimax.  The thought processes behind the movie's cinematography were pretty transparent, and the characterizations quite shallow.  Oh, there was one scary bit when the vague shadows at the beginning of the movie resolved themselves into pigeons taking flight in a city square.  It was scary because I was worried that I had spent my money in vain.  Matthew McConaughey came off as more of a wanna-be than the stereotypical troubled hero he was trying to portray.  The fact that the dragons were severely weakened by the time the movie's final battle rolled around was pretty lame.  Apparently, humanity survived only because its nemesis wasn't very adept at staying alive. "},{"Title":"Hot boys with glorious accents!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christian Bale and Gerard Butler are exquisite.  I love the accents.  The storyline falls a bit short, but that's not really important.  It has enough of the qualities of a fun and exciting adventure story with stars to match.  I enjoyed this one and I plan to purchase it when it comes to DVD. "},{"Title":"This movie could be summed up in one phrase Eh","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I decided to see this movie I wasn't expecting to see a great film.  I wasn't even expecting to see a great action film.  I went into the theater expecting to see an OK film for the Man vs. Beast genre.  But as I was watching this film, I found my self praying that my shoe laces would be long enough for me to hang myself when I returned home.  True, this movie had the big flashing lights and loud noises that makes an action flick and action flick, but where was the danger? Where was the suspense? Where was the friggin story?  For a world that was supposedly ravaged by thousands of dragons, there was a serious lack of dragonage going on.  I mean the protagonist (Christian Bale  `Quinn Abercromby')  and his group or refuges, also including Matthew McConaughey's character (`Denton Van Zan' 'Dragon Slayer)  and his American  militia, only come in real contact with like 3 dragons.  I mean come on! I paid good money to get me some mad dragon death here! I PAID FOR BLOOD!  This movie has so many horrible short comings it made me want to roll over and vomit.  Where do they get their fuel? I mean you have these American dudes driving around in tanks and other assault vehicles and flying around in a helicopter.  I don't know, maybe helicopters CAN fly around all day without refueling. Plus what are the odds that of all the eggs that the ONE male fertilized, that there wouldn't ever be another Male dragon?...I want my eyes to explode.In closing I would advise people to either see this at the cheap times or wait for it to come out on video.  I beg everyone to lower their expectations to an inhuman degree.  I still have a look of disgust on my face and I saw this thing like 3 days ago.  You try thanking some one for letting you use their bathroom with that kind of a face and see how they react!  "},{"Title":"Great Action - Gorgeous Dragons - Gerard Butler's Smile","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  That's enough to hold my attention!  A major testosterone rush combined with dragons that are breathtaking (which made you wish they had given them more screen time) this is a real adrenaline pump.  If you are looking for an intellectual challenge, or brain teaser forget it.  After being disappointed by Tomb Raider and Spiderman as thrill rides, this one really did it for me.  Simple plot, lots of macho action and finally a dragon who really looks like a bad ass reptile.  All that and Gerard Butler actually smiling - what a treat.  A great night of fun in my book. "},{"Title":"Poor Story and Too Brief SFX","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie would have probably been a lot better with a rewrite and a slightly bigger FX budget.  Instead,  I was left with my head scratching from the very first scene.  A young boy (Quinn),  walks into a work zone and waltzes underground to visit his Mom.  Everyone along the way is working hard with heavy machinery and wearing hard hats.  But not the boy.  This is a movie, so he can wander wherever he pleases.  He even crawls into an unknown cavern by himself without a flashlight.  What a great Mom he has.   Well,  then there's a dragon that makes thousands of more dragons that take over the Earth.  Alas,  because of a thrifty FX budget,  the movie tries to awe the audience by showing the destruction of Earth with &#150; magazine clippings!   Another rewrite would put a little more cohesiveness to the story.  There is one good scene,  where kids are gathered around their leader, dressed in blue,  reciting the rules of survival.     The script is so weak that it seems like the screenwriters regurgitated the exact same scene later in the movie, milking it for what it's worth.   The rest of the movie mostly deals with meaningless squabbles.  What is missing is any meaningful screen time for the dragons.   Almost all shots of the dragons last a couple seconds,  too short to get scared or excited.  Frankly most of the effects looked cheap.  Near the end of the movie the story loses all sense of coherence,  and I just didn't care what happened.   For the fun of it, I'll list a few more lame story highlights (Spoilers)- The leader and strategist for the remaining humans is the boy who survived the initial Dragon attack.  Even though he has no background for such a thing and survived by sheer luck. - The Earth is destroyed but electricity, fuel, and water are plentiful.  - An outdoor garden grows unscathed by the Dragons. - Only one male dragon exists,  despite many years and thousands of dragons being spawned.- This one male dragon stays put in London,  even though he's supposed to be zinging around the planet making more dragons.- Men are drafted to be Ark Angels,  despite the fact that there are plenty of soldiers left that arrived from America. - Dragons own the sky, but the lady in the helicopter flies anywhere she wants.- The lady helicopter pilot changes accents with every scene.- Thrill as an entire warning system is thwarted when a 5 story dragon sneaks up on the castle!  Yes, really, he creeps up on his tippy toes!- You can only kill a dragon during sunset,  but they launch an attack during the day.  - Dragons need to eat humans to survive,  they in fact are so starved that they are eating each other.  But they are quick to kill everyone in an armoured convoy,  or in the castle.    "}{"Title":"   Another Self serious post apocalyptic actioner...great effects, dull script, stiff performances.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Potent possibility of depicting man's inadvertent ressurection of the dragon species millions of years after they decimated the dinosaurs ends up pretty ashen do to dense and lifeless plotting.  Like too many modern matinee hokums this forgets to be fun and has no apparent interest in functioning as entertainment.  The two lead performances could serve as contrasting examples of bad boy brattiness  with Christian Bale's wirey British beefiness winning out over Matthew McConahey's bald tattoo emporium refugee if only because Bale seems to have some spark of genuine charisma. Oh well the real stars should be the Dragons...and I am happy to say that their appearances are generally stellar, with the final showdown with the only male Dragon being quite incendiary.  But as is too often the case the effects sequences are kept to a bare minimum and their impact is muted by lack of sympathy for their human foe (and Fodder).  All in all a rather sadly sodden revisitation to Dragonville...not the return to the glory days ofQ the Flying Serpentor Dragonslayer.s "},{"Title":"Decent action but grossly inconsistent","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had read some mixed reviews before going to see that movie... and now I can understand why. The movie isn't as bad as some say there's some good action, nice special effects and overall a decent thrill. The first 20-30 minutes or so are quite good. Then things turn bad. You get an overdose of the Americans are the kings of the earth stereotype with the background music and all, and a pretty stupid and predictable plot. At some point it gets so stupid you want to laugh... but the problem is that the movie doesn't try to be funny (unlike, say, independence day). And damn... I still don't see how we're supposed to not notice they still have fuel to run an helicopter, tanks, trucks, etc when they've barely had food to eat for years. This is probably a common thing through the whole movie they always have exactly what they need on hand (I noticed horses pop up here and there). The movie could also have used a few extra minutes to develop the characters better. Regardless, it's an entertaining movie to watch... but I wish I had waited to rent it instead of seeing it in theaters. "},{"Title":"Predictable, derivative time waster.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beautiful special effects, about three minutes worth, spread sparingly, one shot at a time. The rest of the movie is very low-budget, with a story line as sparse as the effects. The initial concept is great, but we never see the world ravaged by dragons. Instead, a narrative exposition sets the stage, without the visuals. All this would be acceptable, without major plot-holes. First of all, the dragon's motivation in killing people, is strictly to feed. Most of the humans killed are incinerated, not eaten. Where is the fuel supply for the military vehicles ? Dragons survived underground for 65 million years. Last but worst, thousands of dragons, only one male. Suspension of disbelief is essential for a film like this, but we're fresh out before the climax.  "},{"Title":"Finally, sci-fi dragons instead of fantasy ones&#133;","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The dragons were beautifully done. With the motions of a vampire bat, chemical drool, and the decrepit look of its wings, these dragons seemed very real.The movie, however, would have stood a better chance as a trilogy, with the first part focusing on the destruction of the world as opposed o glossing over it. Maybe then Reign of Fire could have been followed by The Humans Strike Back, pardon the pun for the parody in the movie.And parents, there isn't much that a fourth or fifth grader couldn't see, a few bad words and dragon body parts aside. There is absolutely nothing sexual; the closest the movie gets to any show of affection is the lead hugging his son.Dragonheart eat yours out&#133; "},{"Title":"Style Without Substance - What a surprise!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In these times of blockbuster titles with big name stars, I find that I am reluctant to get excited about much that comes out, until I have actually seen it.  I have fallen for hype of up and coming movies more times than I would like to admit.  Reign of Fire was a movie that seemed to be coming in under the radar and that had me wondering why.First let me say that I am a sci-fi fan to the extreme.  Dragons being re-awakened and destroying the earth, pushing man kind the very brink of extinction!?  This, to me, was mouth watering to say the least!First let me say that the special effects in Reign were top notch.  The dragons were terrifying and believable and as the title suggests, there was fire-o-plenty.  I was really impressed with the attention to detail that was given to the special effects.The characters were potentially interesting, but beyond Matthew McConaughey's Dragon Slayer, Denton Van Zan and the dragons, there was little to hold my interest.  Christian Bale did a good job at portraying his love for the people that had come to depend on him, but in no time at all was wearing his heart on his sleeve.  I was more taken by his likeness to a young James Brolin than I was by his character.  The rest of the characters in the story were throwaways.  Izabella Scorupco was beautiful but flat. I kept thinking how clean and lovely her lips were, no matter how dirty her face got.The movie's plot is laid out in the beginning, after the initial introduction to the dragon and the rest is a downhill ride to the ending. No surprises, just a lot of fire power and testosterone.Overall I was entertained and I really did enjoy the experience.  I just left the movie feeling that Rob Bowman could have done a better job on the flow and storyline.  "},{"Title":"Too many plot holes, poor characters, and not enough substance.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  `Reign of Fire' has a good concept.  It's a post-modern dragon-slaying story once reserved for knights of King Arthur's court. However, this one is set in the year 2020, 18 years from present and the knights have been moved aside and replaced by a 21st century American vigilante, and his team of worn soldiers.The story opens in modern day, at a London underground (subway) construction site.  A school-boy, Quinn, is visiting his mother, the fore-woman of the site. While visiting, Quinn goes down into the tunnel that is being dug and uncovers something fierce and ancient.  That something is a dragon, that's been underground for centuries, lying dormant, and is now awakened.  The dragon surfaces&#133; and the movie begins  We are then narrated (as opening credits role) the next 18 years&#133; as we learn that the dragons (there are more than one?) have populated to an alarming rate causing mass destruction on a global-apocalyptic scale.  Why we were only narrated this, and now shown it, is a mystery to me.  What's left come 2020 is a small community, that has been able to thrive in a castle on their own. Quinn (played by Christian Bale) has grown into a commanding father-figure of this community, and shortly, they receive guests&#133; the US army led by vigilante, Matthew McConaughey, who claims he and his team are skilled and know how to slay dragons.What bugs me about this whole movie is that the best parts, the dragons spree in devastating Earth, is the story they should have been showing us.  Instead, they narrated that portion to us in only a few minutes, and instead tried to show us a couple of would-be heroes trying to slay dragons with very little resources.The characters don't even seem real.  They seem to be here only because the movie requires them to be, but not because they are interesting or might be able to contribute to the story.  As such, I have no feeling for these characters, and no feeling for what happens to them&#133; live or die.  In fact, I really didn't care if they succeeded in killing the dragons or not&#133; I would have been as interested to see the dragons win, to be quite honest.As for the dragons&#133; they're apparently a threat.  But the majority of the ones we encounter wind up dead.  If they're this easy to kill off&#133; how come they weren't wiped out when there was only a handful&#133; or one, for that matter?  **Spoiler alert** Speaking of &#145;one' &#150; there apparently is only ONE male of the thousands upon thousands of dragons that have populated the past 18 years&#133; Yup, believe it, ONE male spawned thousands of offspring.  This, we are told, is the same dragon Quinn found as a boy.  Somehow that one male, was able to populate, and spawn thousands of only-females. (?!) That in itself is a tad hard to grasp, but we are also led to believe that the characters have figured this out on their own&#133; that there is only ONE male on the planet&#133; AND they figure out where he is, and how to kill him. ***********The visual effects of the dragons and their interacting with the scenery and the actors are equally impressive.  However, 10 minutes of special effects doesn't quite carry the movie, I'm afraid.The final 2 minutes of the final battle scene is quite well done, but again, it doesn't carry the movie and isn't worth the price of admission.I went into this movie with zero expectations, and got exactly what I expected&#133; nothing. Don't waste your money&#133; it's not even on the wait-for-video list.  "},{"Title":"Very exciting film for action sci-fi fans","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was not the best movie of the summer but it was a very good one. The action scenes and special effects are great. Bale and McConaughey both do great jobs and have great 1 liners to each other which are really funny. If you are in the mood to sit back and enjoy an action movie this is the one. "},{"Title":"Where's the positivity?","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"       Just saw this movie last night, and, contrary to what many think here, I thought it was a pretty entertaining movie.  Let's get one thing straight, though.  I walk into a movie expecting to be ENTERTAINED, and that's about it.  If a movie does that, well then it's a job well done.  Are there some plot holes?  Sure.  Is this the best acting and special effects EVER?  No.  Did I walk into this movie expecting to see an epic 10 star movie that will span the annuls of time (Godfather, Braveheart, etc.)?  Nope.  Did this movie keep me awake and excited to see what happens next?  SURE.  All I can say is go and expect to be entertained by a movie that has some beautiful scenery, above-average special effects, and above average acting (Christian and Matt did a fine job).  Sure, you may forget this movie a year from now, but it's still money well spent.  7/10 stars...  "},{"Title":"GO HUMANITY!!!!!!! HOORAH!!!!!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh, This is a GOOD movie!!! I was cheering all through the end and the battle scenes!!! The end had me wanting to jump up and shout YES!! YES!!! GO TO @%^^ YOU SON-OF-A-@%%^^!!!!!! A great movie for patriotic nuts like me who enjoy a happy movie!! rather predictable, but still fun. I liked the characters and the small love story between Alex and Quin. the other main characters were cool and fun so I was interested in seeing who would die. and some times I wanted to shout out I LIKED that guy!! Do NOT miss. great movie!!!! "},{"Title":"A promising start but.....","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoiler Alert .........Just got back tonight after seeing this movie and was rather disappointed. The movie looks good in previews but falls way short . It starts in a not too distant future in the city of london. A young boy goes to see his mother who is working drilling a railroad tunnel far beneath the city. A cave is unearthed and the dragons are released , the boy survives but his mother is killed. Very spooky and works but thats about the only good part of his movie. Now we skip to the future around 10 or 15 yrs.The world has been overrun and destroyed pretty much by the dragons and the young boy from the beginning is now 20 something and the leader of a ragtag band of survivors in an old castle in england somewhere.This is where the movie totally goes unbelievable ,we are led to believe that with all our resources the dragons have defeated our armies and taken over.There arent any scenes of this just flashes of old magazines that show destruction and news articles.Problems with plot holes, mad max lookalike feel. where does matthew mcconahey come from, they roll in on tanks and a helicopter ,surely there are other troops that survived if they did.and what do they use for fuel?. the dragons look good but are hardly seen but for a few glimpses and when its closeup look fake. and christian bale looks like a model more than a soldier and why does he insist that they stay holed up in a place that could obviously be burned up anyways.And the far fetched ending , figuring if they kill off the male that will stop the procreation of dragons . well what about the thousands that are already out there. and what about it being the only male , thats ridiculous. why in the past hadnt they just gone into london and bombed the nest.So at the end what we have are three people armed with just crossbows and a machine gun to do the job millions couldnt do before. come on get real. some of the special effects are good but overall the movie drags in between action scenes and i found myself fighting to keep awake. this movie could have been so much better , why didnt they show how the world was taken over instead of just skipping 15 yrs into the future. at least they could have made it feasible to show why the dragons were able to overcome us. in reality i think we would have wiped them out ,i mean in the movie matthew mcconahey kills a dragon with a harpoon cannon which isnt that big a weapon. we have stuff that could knock down the eiffel tower ,,im sure we could have blown away these dragons ,,we have jet planes that can fly a hell of a lot faster than the dragons could and with heat seeking missiles wipe them out..  there are too many unbelievable plot holes and the ending to me is unresolved , like what does quinn do with the dragon egg he gets from the dead female dragon and what about the gillions of other dragons still alive. this has sequel written on it ,i hope its not true..  i dont recommend this movie , if you must see it ,,go when its been out awhile and playing at the 2 dollar movie theater.    see you at the movies "}{"Title":"Great film, but...(semi-spoiler)","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for 'Reign of Fire', my first thought was, I must see this! The second time I thought, Why haven't I seen this yet? Now that I've seen it, I must say that it is one of the best human vs. creature films I've seen since 'Jurassic Park'.I only had two problems with the film (1) If the chopper pilot was able to scan for dragons for 30 miles before landing, then why were they so surprised when it snuck up on them later while flying? (2) How does the lack of genetic diversity NOT catch up with the dragons? Millions of females and ONE male??Of course, I realize that this is a rather nit-picky problem and it certainly does not take away from how good I thought the movie was. It was money well spent and I'll be looking for it when it comes out on DVD! "},{"Title":"Best dragon movie ever","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, Reign of Fire, though not as completely good a film as Road to Perdition, is the one of the two that has to be seen in theaters (I may even see it again) and I'm willing to go as far as to say that it's the best dragon movie I've ever seen.  It's better than Dragonheart, which never really took itself seriously enough to be fascinating (and which I own on DVD because it came free with my player).  It's better than Dragonslayer, which was (and still is) impressive in it's own right, but again included too much humor for it's own good, as if it didn't trust itself to be a good adventure.  That's not to say that Reign of Fire didn't have humor, but it wasn't included in order to lighten the mood.  It allowed itself to be serious, to really explore the social ramifications of the existence of these creatures, these forces of nature.  The performances are solid, and the effects are incredible.  It also, amazingly, managed to avoid all the action/monster movie cliches that we've actually come to expect from a summer blockbuster.  The children in the movie are used sparingly and effectively, as are the monsters themselves (which could have been CGI, but were most likely real dragons).  If you haven't seen MIIB yet, don't bother, and spend your money on these memorable modern classics instead. "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY Disappointing","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I made a mistake before going to see this movie I had high expectations and hopes for it. Maybe if I had went in expecting crap, I would be more hesitant to give it a bad review. I understand this is fantasy and should be taken lightly, but even ignoring the insane plot holes and discontinuity it still is really boring. The effects in the 10 minutes of great movie are spectacular, but the other 110 minutes are filled with overly dramatic acting from characters with as much character as wheat toast. The story drags along so slowly that I was forced to check my watch at least 6 times. You never see the dragons. For crying out loud, Dragonslayer had more on-screen dragon time! Do not waste your money on this film. "},{"Title":"Overall good story idea, but not put together well.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This story, based on the legend of dragons, puts an interesting twist on the current thought of post-apocalyptic horror. The concept is good- how would humans fight back against this awesome threat- but the movie is put together very sloppy. It's almost as if the writers decided to take turns seeing who could come up with the best action while forgetting to check with each other for continuity. What we get is 90 minutes of choppy action sequences mixed in with a little exposition and little explanation of the basics. For instance, the Brits fight to keep their garden growing and in one attack by the dragons, it's gone. How could they keep it going so long out in the open like that with the dragons all around? Then the Americans show up, beat up Quinn, conscript soldiers, go to what's left of London, and get turned into toast with only Van San surviving. And to top it all off, when the trio of 'heroes' get to London again, how does a Kentucky Redneck grunt know so much about a town square he's never been to; and wouldn't a bull dragon have something better to do than fly a predictable pattern over this square? Hardly... I guess my main point is the story is good, however it looks as though novices were given their first chance to write action and their enthusiasm went unchecked. Hollywood has done better. They should have sent this movie back for a few more rewrites instead of rushing it through production. "},{"Title":"Two Wings Down.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Two wings down.  Period.  The entire movie was so blooming -vague- that you really couldn't follow the plot that well.  It was, what?  Eighty...five? Seven?  Minutes long?  Had they made it an easy one-twenty, they could have added in enough storyline fillers to make it just -that- much more interesting.  There were too many holes in the plot, then just that much more herky-jerky scene-splitting what-the-heck-just-happened-there sort of rummaging.  Quite frankly, that could confuse some people.  Like me.The soldiers.  Everyone thus far seems to have liked the soldiers.  What soldiers?  There's...four...five...six?  Maybe?  Listening to Van Zam's grunted out orders to go suicide arch angel diving out of a helicopter before or after a thirty-odd foot beast hell-bent on turning them into a mid-flight snack?  I don't -think- so.Reviews say that the dragons are the best part.  Ooookidokie.  Exactly -what- dragons?  You see...two.  And only split-second shots of them.  For the length of seventeen seconds.  Otherwise they're dead or blown up. Riiiight.This movie, via the hardcorse AD&D folks, ranks right up there with DragonSlayer.  Except that one was better.  Some reviewers ranked it next to the movie Dungeons & Dragons.  No.  A piece of sci-fi highschool drama-class...whatever that was like this can not be ranked next to a movie based on...well...something actually -viable- and believable.  (Right, elves and magic are believable.  Riiiight.  Of course they are--someone thought of those a -long- time ago!  And people -enjoyed- that!)Huge fan of dragon movies.  Love the fantasy flicks.  But whoever decided to cross DragonSlayer with The Terminator and splash in a bit of When Harry Met Sally really needs to get their head examined.  "},{"Title":"Decent popcorn flick; could have been great","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfortunately, it has become the norm for a movie to have a great look and a paper-thin story.  This movie is certainly an example of this trend.  The special effects and set design were top notch, and the actors were very good with the material they had to work with.  However, the premise hardly worked, and the holes in the story were too numerous to count.  I hated having the feeling that Christian Bale was trudging along, not really having an idea what he was doing in this movie.  It had all the elements of the typical Hollywood movie the hero you identify with (Christian Bale), the wise-cracking sidekick (Gerard Butler), the heroine/eye-candy who's just there for the ride (Isabella Scorupco), the semi-bad guy who turns good (Matthew McConaughey), and the villain (the dragon).The movie definitely had its moments, especially with a helicopter/skydiving scene that equally measured Hollywood action with fantastic thrills.  However, the movie was simply action scene pieced together with action scene and nothing in between.  With a little more thought put into the story, the movie could have been great.  I truly felt that this movie wasn't limited by its premise by any means. "},{"Title":"Good Summer Fun!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Relax, turn off your cynical, critical, jaundiced brain and just have a good time. What I don't understand is why people will go to this movie knowing what they are in store for and then can't wait to get home so they can trash it. If you like rollercoaster rides you will enjoy the movie. If you want an art film, stay home and rent something. I enjoyed this movie because I knew it was going to be a monster flick; nothing more, nothing less. The apocalyptic visions were cool, and I have to give props to anybody who can act against a bunch of nothing as the antagonists are all special effects to be piped in later. Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey were entertaining as hell, and Izabella Scorupco is as delicious a piece of eye candy as you will see this summer. I must admit that seeing someone like Scorupco (who looks like she just came from a model shoot, not from slaying dragons) look so gorgeous in a post nuclear dragon flamed scorched earth, that it does tend to sort of ruin your ability to suspend disbelief in order to be able to enjoy the movie; however, I did read that the makeup crew had a very difficult time trying to make Izabella look raggedy and unkempt. I almost fell into the trap of talking myself out of my enjoyment of this flick when I started to think about the implausibilities of the science in the script, but slapped myself in short order and said it's only a movie. Have a good time on a hot day, get into an air conditioned theatre, get some candy, popcorn, beer; whatever, and enjoy this movie "},{"Title":"Creedy and the children were delightful.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was totally charmed by the children cast in this movie.  Creedy (Gerard Butler) won't be doing this kind of buddy movie for long, he outshines Van Zant(a very over-the-top testosterone-laden Matthew McConnaghey)and Quinn(Christine Bale)as all male-and didn't need a tattoo. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but disappointing. Review contains spoilers.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the year 2020, Dragons have re-awakened and have burnt the Earth to ash, which is what the feed on.  Along comes an American Dragonslayer to England, their home, to wipe them out at the root.While a great concept it lets you down.  Van Zant is an American Dragonslayer, who loaded up an old Air National Guard C-5 cargo plane and flew his private army over to England to fight the dragons on their home turf.  Alas, despite the poster & previews, this doesn't exactly happen.  When you first see Van Zant ride up on a tank, the first thing that popped into my head was anticipation when he fires a round from the tank's massive cannon right into the heart of a dragon.  Sadly, it never happens.Their are some bizarre tactics, like the Arch-Angels, when an Apache gunship would seem a more lethal choice, or having the ground troops use .50 M82A1 rifles & Stinger anti-air missles as opposed to shotguns and assault rifles.The CGI dragons are fantastic and only one time do they look a bit dodgy, during the night convoy attack.Frankly, I was hoping for an all-out war of humans vs. dragons, not a low-key hunt with a small band of humans hunting the King dragon.Maybe if this does well, a sequel (or even better, a prequel) with a bigger budget will accomplish it. "},{"Title":"The critics have no idea!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an awesome movie.  I just went to see it for something to do and had a wonderful surprise.  Christian Bale was amazing.The idea of mixing past and future made this movie quite fantastical.  There was humour, suspense, action and terrific special effects.  For anyone interested in genre like Bladerunner or Mad Max, it's a must see. "}{"Title":"misleading posters","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire may have enormous plot holes, but it was still a pretty cool way to spend two air-conditioned hours on the hottest day of the summer. But it could have been so, so much better. SPOILER ALERT I've been seeing posters in the megaplex for months, and the same poster in the newspaper ads --- while I was well aware I was going to see a post-apocalyptic film, that poster led me to believe that (presumably early in the film) there would be an effects-laden air battle over London between RAF helicopters and hordes of dragons. As previous reviewers have noted, we seem to have gone down to defeat pretty easily. But at least all those survivalists who would have been about six years old when the dragons reawakened were able to master technology and learn to fly helicopters amid the rubble. And like those Z-grade post-apocalypse movies so prevalent after Mad Max, everything was scarce except mascara and ammunition for automatic weapons. "},{"Title":"A lukewarm reception to Reign of Fire","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christian Bale & Matthew McConaughey take second place to the CGI dragons in the latest piece of..film...to spew forth from Hollywood, aka Reign of Fire. The plot is familiar; humans are at their lowest and must uprise against the enemy.  It's been done before; Battlefield Earth, Staw Wars(which, interestingly enough, this movie pays tribute to), etc.When I first saw the Dragon vision I thought the SFX team had produced a sloppy blue screen effect.  Maybe that's how they pulled it off.  For me, I wouldn't mind to see this movie plummet from the Box Office charts like the big-bad ugly dragon does at the movie's finale(if it can be called that). "},{"Title":"Blowing smoke, and I do mean blow","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire aspires to be Mad Max Meets Godzilla, but instead is nearly two hours of no fun gray, drab, dreary, depressing, and gloomy, with very few action scenes.  Our heroes, Matthew McConaughey (buff, tattooed, bearded, and shaven-headed) and Christian Bale (late of American Psycho and, in his youth, Henry V), mostly just stand around getting in each other's face and dispensing hard-ass attitude.The movie starts out like Reptilicus with a budget an industrial drilling crew stumbles upon an unexpected cave, the lair of the last surviving dragon.  My BS alarm sounded off immediately as IF a 10-year-old kid would be allowed to dittybop through a hazardous hardhat work environment as casually (Hi, Quinn) as a stroll down the block!  As IF one of the crew would toss Quinn a flashlight ('scuse me, a torch, since this is in London) and encourage him to explore the newly-discovered cave!  Do these people live in a universe where the very concept of liability doesn't exist? (Look quick for Alice Krige in this sequence; don't blink.)After this dragon breaks loose, there follows a montage of somebody writing in a journal as a voice-over tells how, over the next few years, the dragon population exploded and they burnt the world to the ground.  THIS is the movie that should've been made (for a taste of what might have been, check out the short story, The Day of the Dragon, by Guy Endore).  Instead, we cut to about 20 years later, when Quinn (Bale) is now head of a band of survivors, hidden in a hilltop castle!  In what way, exactly, is a conspicuous fortress a hiding place?Spoilers ahead... American commandoes show up, in tanks and transports and a helicopter, all with no visible means of fuel supply.  Van Zan (McConaughey) announces that they're on their way to London to kill Big Daddy, the only flying tomcat in a sky full of dragonettes.  To make a dull story short although we were told in the earlier montage that not even nukes could stop these things, Big Daddy is killed with an explosive crossbow bolt!Good dragon FX, for what that's worth, but not nearly enough scenes featuring them.  Nor are the dragon FX any particular improvement over those seen in the still very grim but much more enjoyable Dragonslayer (1981), still the very best dragon movie ever made.  Reign, by contrast, is unpleasant, tedious, and unbelievable even on its own terms. "},{"Title":"Out of this world!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, i really have no words for this film more than Bad Ass, thats a great description for it,the movie is cool and the dragons rule, Mathew Mcconaghey have not dome something decent since that jodie foster movie Contact, i loved it, cool action scenes, cool dragon cgi stuff, great special effects, what else do you need. go see it..its worth it.  "},{"Title":"WHAT in this job involves SAFETY?****","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For anyone who went to the 750 show of Reign of Fire at Cineplex Odeon Wisconsin Ave. I was the guy cheering when Quinn grabbed the horse to get the third Triangular.  This movie kicked ass.  I've heard reviewers take it down, and friends say it'll just be a knockoff of other sci-fi movies playing up FX over story.  They're right, but it's still a damn good time. Audiences cheered at the end.I for one could not BELIEVE the helicopter sequence.  There was something so surreal and otherworldly about the whole process (with something out of Mad Max in the tanks and motorcycles heading to battle), with maybe the most entertaining sci-fi wizardry I've seen since the Jurassic Park creatures. Of course, there were other great sequences, (SPOILERS) the attack of the dragon on the convoy or the castle, the escape from the harvest fields, or the final sequence.  All of them were put together with a fine pace and a fine cast.The script isn't weak and thin, just QUICK.  The story gets across the basic primal elements it desired too, how a group goes from hiding from the beast to taking them out.  Bale, McConaughey, Scorpuco, and DR. BASHIR FROM DS9(!) all do a fine job at balancing a bit of comedy with some good drama and thirst for action.Actually, this script was FAR smarter and less cliched than that for Spider Man or Star Wars Episode 2 in its dialogue.  Three essential questions What do we do when we sleep?  What do we do when we wake? What do we do when we see him?  It had probably more enticing and SURPRISING effects to boot and great cinematography.  (With its liberation from the depths, beast fighting, and burnt-out imagery, it actually reminded me a lot of ALIEN3.)  Thus, until something better comes along, (SIGNS?), this is definitely the sci-fi pic for summer '02. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Frankly I'm a bit surprised this visually entertainingsci-fi/Fantasy extravaganza only received a rating of 6 onthe IMDB. It deserves more than that. If you like fantasy, adventure, science fiction, excellent filmmaking, superb  SFX, great visuals, decent score and outstanding sounddesign you will enjoy this film. At least as much as Lordof the Rings or Minority Report. This is high quality work, not monotonous tripe or  mediocrity. Some really good things in this picture, and aspecial mention to Adrian Biddle's superb cinematography.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has a great idea  Modern-day tunnelers uncover a nest of ancient dragon-eggs.  The eggs hatch, dragons breed out of control, and the world is engulfed in flame.  Governments collapse, leaving only a handful of rag-tag Englishmen and some American military types to uncover the reptiles' secret breeding spot and destroy them in the nick of time before the world goes to hell in a handbasket.It's too bad that the film is so poorly written.  From the very beginning, the film staggers into unbelievability, with numerous plot holes, errors, goofs and stumbles.  Story exposition, which is essential in a fantasy film that takes some time in the future, is almost completely lacking.  The characters' motivations are poorly limned, and star McConaughey delivers a lackluster performance. Christian Bale tries very hard to give depth and emotional weight to a role that is a not well-written, and only partly succeeds in making it work. Watch for an animated, energetic performance by Izabella Scorupco (who should have been listed more prominently in the title credits as one of the film's stars) and young Scott Moutter (whose role as Bale's protege and surrogate son is strong, well-acted and emotional).  And the special effects are really good, especially the two final scenes with the bull dragon (attacking the castle and in the final battle in London).The basic plot -- McConaughey has discovered the dragons' two weaknesses, which he is going to exploit to destroy the bull dragon that is making all the baby dragons while Bale, who is too emotionally disturbed by all he's been through to help him -- is inventive.  But the film's glaring plot problems make you groan in pain.  Any good fantasy film has one foot firmly in reality and the other in fantasy.  Unfortunately, Reign of Fire is so mis-handled by its first-time screenwriters (two out of the three writers are novices) that these problems fill your mind as you watch.  You forget to get involved in the movie.  And that's perhaps the most damning thing that can be said about a fantasy film.If you want a great dragon film, ignore Reign of Fire and go watch Dragonslayer again.  "},{"Title":"Desensitized??","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I read some of the other comments put in for this movie and I'm dismayed at the amount of bad reviews for this movie.I just watched this movie today because of Christian Bale and the dragons. I walked in a bit apprehensive at the thought of the possibility of the movie being ruined by swearing, excessive violence, excessive blood and gore.  I walked out, trying to relax from the intense scenes and feeling ecstatic at having seen this movie.  This movie does not have a lot of swearing, if any, no blood and gore, and the violence wasn't too bad.  I was just jubiliant because nowadays, there are so many movies that have all these things and ruins the movies for me.Yes, the plot may seem weak.  I wouldn't know since I'm deaf and can't hear half of what they were saying, but what I saw made sense to me.  I understood the story and why the people did what they did.  The special effects were pretty good.  Like that one guy said, it's a fun movie.  It's a highly enjoyable movie with many intense scenes that had me on the edge of my seat.  Go see it!  Enjoy a fantasy, see a world different from our own. Live someone else's life for two hours.  It's worth your money. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie looks good in the previews, but unless you like a lot of carnage and gore and a shirtless Matthew McConaughey (okay, maybe that's not so bad) ... go see Minority Report instead.  Reign of Fire is predictable, really poorly written (lots of cliches and hokey dialogue), and the story wasn't interesting enough to keep my mind from wandering all over the place.  If you've seen everything else playing and you want to see a movie, go ahead and see this one ... but it seems to me that almost any movie could outrank it. "},{"Title":"It's Jurassic Park meets Independence Day and Pitch Black mixed in.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this movie was nothing original. It was still good. It had great action, great suspence, great special effects, and some great acting also.  The year is 2020, fire breathing dragons have destroyed the earths cities. A few band of survivers led by Quinn(Christian Bale) try to survive the best way they know how. That all gets complicated with arrival of a half crazed dragonslayer named Van Zan(Matthew McConaughey, looking a little like Vin Diesal) and his troops, who are bent on destroying the dragons. A good film, although it's not as good has some of the good movies of the summer. It really pulls itself together. Christian Bale is great has Quinn, a man who will protect the survivers at any costs. Matthew McConaughey is also great has Van Zan, a man who seems to have an obsession with destroying these fire breathing dragons, like Captain Ahab had in Moby Dick. even the special effects of the fire breathing dragons are good. And for some viewers, I think this movie is to intense for kids under ten. "}{"Title":"Quick introduction, slow pace.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Few spoilers.Reign of Fire is one of those kinds of movies that sucks you in at the very beginning and instantly makes one beg for more.  A dragon appears right at the start which had me saying, More, more!  It was a magnificent, yet appalling and evil-looking creature, melded by an unsurpassed form of CGI.  Although Dragonheart's Draco is much more believable, these things do tend to come alive on the screen.However, I was saying More, more! and it seemed the film's creators were saying, Less, less!  The movie centers mostly around the group of English men, women, and children struggling for survival from starvation and boredom in a castle rather than the dragons themselves.  We see little of the dragons, which proves to be a major disappointment.  Especially for me, since I went into the theater today wanting nothing but the dragons.  I didn't care if there was a plot or a good story to back it up, I just wanted to see the dragons.  But the dragons are satisfying and have their great moments that simply enthralled me.It's a straight-forward, man against beast, survival film.  Not even the post-apocalyptic atmosphere gets in the way.  I first expected to see a movie like Waterworld, where people are going crazy constantly and everyone's wearing ragged clothes and humans have simply reverted to caveman-like appearances and actions.  But Reign of Fire is nothing like Waterworld or Mad Max.  The characters wear normal clothes and none are crazy (with the exception of maybe the dragonslayer, but he does have his reasons).  They are civilized and I was not at all diverted from the film's plot.And indeed, it does have a plot and story.  Some people argue that, in the end, there are still hundreds of dragons which is kind of an anti-climax.  But I say it could be a great introduction to a series of movies, leaving plenty of room for a sequel.As for action and intense scenes, I was greatly disappointed.  The few scenes in the movie involving dragons and their prey were hardly enough to satisfy my taste, most being too short to really get a chance to see the dragons in their full monstrosity.  The movie has a great climax, though, with an excellent central antagonist that is absolutely terrorizing and intense.The music, composed by Edward Shearmur, is not unlike Danny Elfman's militaristic approach to Planet of the Apes.  It also has a great percussion composition throughout the whole movie, and I was very surprised.  I had never heard of Shearmur and instantly thought the music would turn out to be a crummy spawn of James Newton Howard's Waterworld.The movie is above average, having some great scenes and excellent CGI.  It delves in deeply rather quickly, so one will need to pay close attention.  Some scenes are funny, too.  I won't go into detail, but let's just say one involves Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader.All in all, a great movie for dragon-lovers. "},{"Title":"Hiccups of Smoke","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had some good potenital.WARNING!! WARNING!! Something about the MOVIE More should have be spent on the theme between the animosity of the Dragons and man than dreary human interactions between the people involved. It was lagging for at least half the movie. More fighting between the dragons would have been more appropriate for this type of action movie. Acting was adequate and effects and dragon effects were nicely done. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw it at the drive-in.My opinion is that The movie was completely about plot. plotplotplotplotplot. That is it. Looking for emotion? Thats in the first... 3 minutes. Its Humor. Romance? There's was a hint of a hint at one point... but eh... nothing. Violence? A smidge.Look The dragons looked nice. Very smooth and realistic. The movie was grey and dirty, but not pretty and goth. Lots of smoke and dust. Wee.Attention Span About 2 hours into the movie, I was just wishing it would end.Conclusion Good if you're sleepy or bored... Kids will lose interest easily. I didn't *not* like it, it was just boring. I did appreciate the complete lack of emotion. It would have to take a lot of effort to be that boring.  "},{"Title":"McConnaughey makes the mighty leap to action hero....and makes it work.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, when you go into a movie with a name like Reign Of Fire, knowing full well it's about dragons taking over the world, you pretty much know from the get-go, what your opinion will be.  I, for one, had a blast with this one.  Seeing a buffed up Matthew McConnaughey get a chance to play the badass was well worth the price of admission and his lines make the movie worth seeing twice. You can tell he had a great time playing Van Zan.  I really got into his character and it's easy to see why he took the role. He's a hard guy to figure out.  Van Zan comes across as a total psychopath, but you can tell that there is a heart in there. I'm really not much on movies with a post-apocolyptic setting, but this one went down really well with me.  The concept, I thought, was really refreshing, and with a lesser director, this could have been another Battlefield Earth.  I'm happy to say that Rob Bowman pulled it off like an old pro and the Dragons are some of the most convincing CGI creations I've ever seen.  McConnaughey owns the movie, but Christian Bale did a fine job with his character and so does the rest of the cast.  My only real complaint was the ending.  I'm not going to spoil anything, but it all wrapped up just a little too quickly for me and I've got a feeling that there's going to be a sequel.  To me, the 101 minute running time just wasn't long enough.  I could have sat there for ten hours and not uttered one complaint.  I was really into it.  For a Summer action flick, this one really covered a lot of ground.  For the most part, it hit all the right buttons when it came to the drama, humor, action, and suspense.  There was a little bit of humor that I thought was misplaced (I'm referring to the opening scene), but that's forgiveable.   All in all my $7 was well spent and I WILL most definitely be catching it again before it leaves the theater.  If this one looks appealing to you, it's safe to say that you're going to love it.  Just wait till you see the sky-diving scene....talk about adrenaline!!! Check it out. "},{"Title":"I just returned from the theater","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe I should have waited for the dvd. When will there be a dragon movie that is about dragons? What dragons I saw, were good graphics, too bad the movie was detached. Too many unanswered ?s. Too much crap in the middle. Not enough dragon society depicted. My advice, see what the dvd has. Don't waste your money. Rent it. "},{"Title":"Fantasy novel on the big screen.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a long time fan of fantasy novels, it's wonderful to see dragons depicted in all their menacing glory, a la Smaug of Tolkien's The Hobbit. Big and bad and absolutely terrifying; there were quite a few moments during the film I found myself pressing back into the seat, trying to get away. The cgi effects are _fantastic_, communicating the dragons size, speed and ferocity as they wreak havoc and devastation. The movie plotline has some holes in it, but they sink in after the lights come up. And there were quite a few nice touches that reinforce the fantasy dragon/knight scenario -- a castle, a falcon, a war horse, battle axes and cross bows, threaded in with modern trappings and sophisticated weaponry. All the cast do a bang up job and hats off to McConaughey as the berserker warrior and Bale as the reluctant knight that proves his mettle. This is an excellent, fast paced movie that delivers the goods. Well worth the ticket price and more. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Alas, the poor dragons never have gotten their deserved respect in cinema but now they're taking names in this post-apocalyptic thriller. Bashed by critics simply for belonging to the fantasy genre but pay no attention to them (and they might go away! Yipee!). RoF has a b-movie style that has been tragically missed at the theaters (at least by me). Could have been a little better but a good movie overall. More dragon movies, please!For you dragon lovers I highly recommend Q The Winged Serpent and Dungeons and Dragons. "},{"Title":"OBNOXIOUS HUMANS and a STUPID PLOT. ROOT FOR THE DRAGONS!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept borders on the ludicrous a subway construction site in London (deeper than those in the U.S.) unearths a live DRAGON that spawns a multitude of other dragons who destroy London, and manage to virtually take over the earth despite nuclear weapons being used against them. Humanity is scattered to small communities.It gets more crazy. Two hundred soldiers can be quickly reduced to nothing but ashes, totally cremated, by the fire breathing dragon, but their leader is unharmed hiding under a tank - he should have been dry roasted by the heat.It gets crazier. To fight the dragon scourge humanity decides that if they kill the one male who is fertilizing that host of female egg-laying dragons no more baby dragons will appear and they will die out. One problem with that just because only one male animal fertilizes many females does NOT mean there are no other males! How many male trout, or other animals, die or are fought off by the dominant male, when trying to fertilize or mate with the female? A great many. So the method of defeating the dragons is ridiculous. It would never work.Even more ridiculous is Matthew McConaughey, leading the soon-to-be-cremated American army unit. He overacts so much he is almost laughable, while at the same time looking like he is undergoing Steroid Rage; he is so pumped up since the last time we saw him he must have been hitting the juice. Perhaps he thought Reign of Fire was a satire.Now for the good parts. The dragon FX are great. The dragons are fun. Burned out London reminds me of Stalingrad in World War Two from Enemy at the Gates. Very nicely done.The bottom line is that the humans were so stupid and obnoxious in this film I am very sorry the dragons didn't kill them all.BTW, if you like movies about London subway stations unearthing some sort of other-worldy horror, check out Quatermass and the Pit; it got a 7.0 on this site. "},{"Title":"Uhh...OK","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes you wonder why some movies get made, great script, wonderful actors, incredible special effects.  This movie had non of the above.  The concept I get.  A modern day knights tale of slaying the dragon, but this movie just lacked that special umpf! that would have made this an incredible film.  About half-way through the film, I totally lost interest in the characters and story and wondered how much longer.4/10 "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not the greatest action movie ever as one review I read said, but a great one at that.  For an action filled movie, Reign of Fire wasn't too gory. Interestingly enough, I don't think I noticed a single cuss word.  The movie has a good introduction, deceit from within, action, catharsis as the 2 main characters learn the error of their hubris, and an awesome conclusion, firefight and all.  Oh, yeah!  My wife also mentions Matthew McConaughey looks good when he's all sweaty.This one has it all. "}{"Title":"What a letdown","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (SPOILER-FILLED REVIEW - BEWARE) (SPOILER-FILLED REVIEW - BEWARE) (SPOILER-FILLED REVIEW - BEWARE)Ah, what it could have been. Leaving the theater disappointed didn't end my night well, but such is life.Quick plot outline Near future, London. A small boy enters a construction site (never being given a hard hat) to visit his mother who is a worker there. While at the site, he is sent to check out a cavern that's been found while excavating. (did the notion of child welfare even exist then?). Not surprisingly, he finds something in there a (hostile) dragon. While trying to escape together in an elevator, his mother dies but he survives. Fast forward a few years, after the dragons have scorched the world. That same boy, Quinn (Christian Bale), is now a man, heading a commune of survivors. There are some nice touches here, such as Quinn acting in a small play (recreating a famous Star Wars moment) for the children of the commune.One day, Quinn's group spots tanks moving on their compound. The visitors turn out to be headed by Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey), a stereotypical American right down to the half-chewed cigar and ballsy attitude. Also stereotypical is a quip by Quinn's friend Creedy (Gerard Butler), saying that Americans are the only things worse than dragons.Van Zan came to the British Isles to try to exterminate the dragons after examining their epidemiology, but lost a lot of men on the way and needed a place to rest and re-supply. It turns out Van Zan knows how to kill dragons and is the head of a high-tech military force that does the same task. Of course, the squad's helicopter pilot, Alex, is a drop-dead gorgeous chick (Izabella Scorupco). Why is it, as in Independence Day, that the Americans are always the ones who are ahead of everyone else in trying to stop a global threat?Van Zan tells Quinn of his mission to eradicate the dragons and wants to draft soldiers from Quinn's group. Quinn refuses saying it is suicide, arguing that they have a better chance of living in hiding. Van Zan argues that Quinn is just letting them die slower. This is one of the few neat points in the movie both end up gravitating toward one another after they both lose a lot of men (Van Zan through his arrogance, Quinn through his fear). I would have felt more sympathy for them had the movie focused more on this aspect but it felt rushed.Anyway, Quinn, Van Zan and the hottie pilot go to London in a mission to kill the only male dragon. Needless to say, they succeed with only Quinn and the hottie pilot surviving, and Quinn fires the fatal shot at the dragon (presumably the same one who killed his mum), getting some payback.The story couldn't be more cliche but, as I said, there are some nice touches, albeit a very few. The movie spends some time developing the espirit de corps of Quinn's group, and the dragons look pretty sweet. Also, Van Zan has this nostalgic looking dragon-slayer axe that he uses to deliver the death blow to a downed dragon. And Christian Bale is great you can see a lot of emotions underneath Quinn's exterior, like a volcano about to erupt. He is tough but you can tell it is difficult for him to keep his emotions in check.Aside from some neat touches, there's not much much else that differentiates this flick from many of the big budget blockbusters I've seen that bore the hell out of me. Without these good points I probably would've enjoyed the movie more because it would have felt that the movie was succeeding in being mostly a special-effects and explosion extravaganza.In retrospect, I don't think I would've even paid the matinee price for a ticket. All in all, it is a letdown. "},{"Title":"Another summer disappointment","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So far this summer only Minority Report has been worth seeing.  After getting my hopes up so many times after this it just doesn't seem worth it.  I thought, ok, big dragons, lots of fire, action, seeing the human soul as it is bared to meet a tragic outcome.  Good, right?  No, this movie WOULD have been good, if they would have spent a bit more time polishing out some horrible flaws, making the story a bit more original.   For god's sakes how many save the earth from monsters movies do we need?SPOILERS So how many serious flaws do we have?  WAY too many to make the movie watchable.  First of all, giving the history through cheesey flashbacks and little clips here and there were not enough to provide a real clue of where or why there were in the situation they were.  First of all, the clothes all look like dark-ages peasant clothing, but if they still had a TIME magazine wouldn't they have some jeans and t-shirts still around too?  Where did the dragons come from?  How can there only be one male?  Wouldn't there be a male hatchling among the eggs?  Where does the army get their electricity for their little computers and such, and where do they get gas for all the cars/tanks/helicopter?  I mean, they use their vehicles A LOT and if they can't find food where is the gas coming from?  When the first dragons came onto the scene, why couldn't the world deal with them then?  Don't you think a missile or tank shot would've shot the first few down, and it would've never escalated to that level?  WHY CAN THE DRAGONS KILL OFF ALMOST ALL THE WORLD AND THE ARMIES, BUT 3 PEOPLE WITH CROSSBOWS AND AXES CAN KILL THEM?????  Why do the rest of the dragons suddenly disappear just because the male is dead.  AND WHERE ARE ALL THE WOMEN IN THIS MOVIE????  Are they implying only one woman would live through a dragon infestation, or is it just some sex discrimination in the movie biz?  Women extras aren't THAT hard to come by!If you are too stupid to not question these huge holes, then you will probably be very entertained by this movie.  But for those who think while they watch, you will be nothing but disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great dragons, but shut off your brain","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually did enjoy this movie, and it even had some suspense in places. The dragons, and especially the first dragon kill are absolutely incredible. But.  Right off the bat, a what, 12 year old kid, wondering through a subway construction site on his own, without even a hardhat (when all the adults are wearing them)?  They're tunneling for a subway with a machine that that makes a hole too small to walk in?  How does the machine get through the hole?  How can what follows happen?  And that's just the first 5 minutes!  It doesn't get much better, it would be spoiler material to go on, but you have to eradicate all sense of plausibility to really enjoy the movie, and it's a real shame just because the movie's about dragons doesn't mean you should have to shut off your brain to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Exactly what I suspected","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire gave me exactly what I expected it to - some reasonable action, a hole-ridden plot, and lots of gratuitous explosions.  The acting was typical of a monster action movie (some actors very over the top, others flat and emotionless).  While the story had an interesting premise, the writers failed to explain several crucial plot points, instead making vague reference to them in the newspaper clipping/voice-over montage at the start of the film.  Thankfully, I had read an in-depth summary written by someone with access to the script ahead of time, and was able to explain to my companions what was going on. ***Warning - Spoilers!***First off, the dragons subsided on ash created when they burned things. The film didn't say this, and so the scene at the orchard made little sense. People were asking Why didn't the dragon eat them? and the only explanation that we were given was Quinn saying something like He doesn't want us, he only wants the ash from the plants. Secondly, we never found out how one male dragon was able to multiply into millions.  It was presumed that there may have been eggs also in hibernation, but this was never stated.  It also seemed strange that Van Zan would say that the male could fertilize 100 000 eggs, and yet not one of these 100 000 eggs would hatch another male.  Finally, it would seem that for the dragons to have taken over the entire planet, there would have to be hundreds, even thousands of other males from around the world.But those flaws aside, the movie was quite entertaining, although not a thinking person's film.  6/10   "},{"Title":"Good Flick, annoying problems tho","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Comments here have spoilers.The angels were cool, would have been much cooler if we had a chance to see them be successful.  Only time they are used, they die.  Makes em seem stupid, not cool.Why didnt they just put weapons on the dang helicopter?Anyone with an ounce of tactical sense knew exactly what was going to happen to the convoy as it headed into London and got bunched up.  One sweep and the dragon wipes out just about everyone.  As soon as I saw the column like that I knew it was going to happen.  The troops get out of the trucks and what do they do?  Like a bunch of idiots they stand next to the convoy rather than spread out.  These dragons wipe out human civilization and Van Zan cant figure out that his convoy can get toasted?  "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire better than Minority Report","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire was a much more engrossing film than Minority Report. The reason being is that you felt more for the characters involved than in the sci-fi movie. There aren't too many things in movie monsterdom and myth than the fire breathing dragon. Bringing a realistic fire breather to life on the screen was very well done. That was an impressive looking beast. And overwhelming in its capabilities. The task of surviving and defeating the dragons was really compelling.  Believing in the characters and caring about how they manage their lives in the face of overwhelming odds is really what the stuff of most movies are all about. Mathew's character was a bit over dramatic, what with ripping off of shirts and what not but still the star of the movie, the dragons were very cool to see and whether they were to be defeated by humans was something you wanted to see. You wanted to see the outcome. "},{"Title":"Top-notch FUN movie with Dragons will...","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Keep you on the edge of your seat- Wonderfully well-made & exhilarating...go go go...Frighteningly too realistic for comfort at times; considering its futuristic setting...Some amazing work on this film...Beats the hell out of so many films of its kind... "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been waiting so long for this movie to come out and when I finally watched it it turned out to be a complete waste of my time.  This movie is about dragons so where the smeg were all the friggin dragons?  I don't go to the theaters if I have to pay but I payed matinee price for this one when I could have seen it cheaper during the twilight specials.  I can't believe I payed to see yet another worthless piece of schlopp.  This is one of those movies that should have came out straight to video.  Why is it that when you have a bunch of powerhouse commandos/special unit, they kick A$$ in the beginning but after that they all get killed off.  You expect them to do some mega major damage But they get killed too friggin soon.  Hey, just wait for this one to come out on video and wait till it's an old release so you can rent it cheap.  Man, I should have seen Minority Report or Bourne Identity instead.  I want my money back and I want those two hours of my life back.  Reign of Fire my A$$!!!  It should be called Reign of the Lame. "},{"Title":"If we were to apply logic, we come to interesting conclusions.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ****WARNING!!! Some Spoilers ahead!!!****The first dragon we see is the male (the only one, according to the movie, all the rest are females we are told.) This leads us to some interesting thoughts, none of this may be held to truth if sequels come out, but nonetheless here I will ramble my own ideas.One male dragon, presumably in stasis since the end of the middle-ages (that's when the last of the dragon imagery that man has is done...Saint George and all that); this dragon is awakened, and within a year there are millions.That means eggs. Lots of eggs&#133;all in stasis as well. Preserved, just like he was, since the middle-ages.Who then is to say that there aren't going to be hidden clutches of eggs left after the remaining females are dead at the end of this movie's predictable timeline? That could be fun. But wait, no males mean the eggs are not fertilized, which means in turn that the eggs won't come alive. We're safe!Or are we?`Jurassic Park' taught us one thing there is at least one species of animal that can switch gender when there are no choices for successful mating. Who is to say that dragons can't do the same thing?That's why I said that evil word sequel earlier.Check this out At the end of the predictable timeline of this movie, after the successful elimination of the only male, there are only females. This means that they will eat each other (only females) until there is only one left. At that point, this female if it isn't killed outright by humans, will force a stasis on itself just to survive (of course this might all be done anyway once the food is gone); and this means that it will *know* that it is the only dragon left (or at least it will have a darn good idea.) During its stasis, it will morph/gender change, so that when it awakens it won't be female anymore, and thereby can fertilize the millions of eggs left by itself and its sisters.But that whole theory is beaten by the sheer fact that no known species on Earth does that. It would be odd, to say the least, at least as odd as the sheer idea of dragons in the first place, for nature/evolution to allow such a messed up system to come into being.Which leads me to the idea that there *are* other males out there, still sleeping. And those unfortunate Britons just happened to awaken one.That means more males to be found, that means more babies once awakened, that means&#133;.yup, there's that `sequel' word again.The idea can self-replicate. And if `Reign of Fire' does well enough at the box-office, and you know how Hollywood loves that cash-register sound, there will be plans for more (minus Matthew McConaughey of course.)This all leads me to my actual review (the above was just stuff I wanted to get off my chest.)    Matthew McConaughey reminded me of a `G.I.-Joe' character brought to life, he seemed to be acting too tough for his own good. Almost, but not quite, laughable.Other than that, it was an average film. Out of `10,' I give it a `5.' Solid average. If you like dragons, if you like Matthew McConaughey, if you like post-apocalyptic stories, then go see. But I do expect a sequel if the $$$ is high enough. We'll see if I'm close at that time. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but not bad at all","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Written by Gregg Cabot, Keven Peteka, Matt Greenberg and Gary Barber and directed by Rob Bowman(X-Files), Reign of Fire is Touchstone Pictures latest film.  It is an apocalyptic action/adventure film about the human struggle for survival. The story centers around Quinn(Christian Bale) who lives in a castle in the year 2020.  Several years before, he and his mother(Alice Krige), an engineer building an underground rail tunnel, happen onto a  cavern where a large dragon was in hybernation.  Quinn barely escapes with his life, but all others in the tunnel are killed including his mother.  Later Quinn becomes the leader of a group of survivors including stray adults who have no where to go and a large group of orphaned children.  With his best friend Creedy(Gerard Butler), he tries to teach them how to grow their own food and protect themselves from the dragons that have taken over Earth and decimated the population. The quiet world of the castle occupants is invaded by the arrival of Denton Van Zan(Matthew McConaughey) the leader of an assorted group of National Guard soldiers who he has enlisted to fight the dragons.  Van Zan shows his abilities when the castle is attacked by a dragon. He and Quinn work together to kill it.  Van Zan then decides the only way to kill the dragons is to go to London where the lead male dragon is located and kill him.  He tries to enlist several of the castle inhabitants, but when they don't volunteer, he drafts them.  On the way to London, the entire group is wiped out by the male except for Van Zan, his helicopter pilot Alex(Izabella Scorupco), and a wounded soldier. Meanwhile, back at the castle, the male has followed the scent of the soldiers back to the castle and is attacking it.  Quinn and Creedy are able to save most of the children and some of the adults, but in the process Creedy is killed.  Quinn locks himself and the survivors in a room deep in the castle to wait out the attack.  When it is finished, they are rescued by Van Zan and his party.  After this Quinn realizes that they have to go to London and kill the male dragon.  He leads Van Zan and Alex to the lair that he had discovered 18 years ago.  During the fight Van Zan is killed.  Quinn and Alex fight the dragon and in the final battle, Quinn shoots an explosive arrow down it's throat.  In the end, Quinn and Alex return to the castle where they find the young man, Jared(Scott Moutter) Quinn had raised from childhood caring for and protecting the survivors of the castle fire.  The community begins to enjoy peace again and Quinn realizes that Van Zan was right, that killing the male dragon would kill the species because they hadn't seen another dragon in over three months.This movie was formula.  I've seen the same story in other features such as Mad Max.  But this doesn't make this a bad movie.  In fact, the chemistry between McConaughey and Bale is a hi-lite to the movie as both actors play characters with diametrically opposed personalities.  Bale was excellent as Quinn, an intelligent, gentle man trying to rebuild a life for himself and the people under his charge.  McConaughey was good as the obnoxious and passionate Van Zan who allowed his desire to kill dragons take over and eventually kill his company. I was surprised and pleased by Izabella Scorupco's performance as Alex.  She portrayed Alex with strength and dignity as a helicopter pilot who was trust into a life she would not have chosen.  This is not often seen in Hollywood movies.  Butler gave good support as Quinns best friend, Creedy All the other actors in the film gave equal support, making this movie an ansemble film. Rob Bowman as the director was excellant as usual, but as a fan of the X-Files, I'm a bit partial.  He assisted the actors and the story's flow, bringing it together as a complete story.  The visuals were great, especially the aerial scenes. Overall, I enjoyed this film and would recommend it to anyone who wants two hours of escapism.  Although, I would recommend that parents with children under 13 not take them to this film.  Several children in the audience I was in were disturbed by the graphic violence and loud sounds.  "}{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire offers no pretenses to what it is. It is an action movie, I geeks dream. Dragons Vs. People, 20th century tech. And it accomplsihes what it sets out to do Be an awesome summer kick-ass film.Reign of Fire is set in the year 2020 A.D, when dragons have taken over the earth, expanding from a population of 1 to 1 million in less then year. After years of reigning over the earth, and torching everything site, people have begun to lose hope. However, Den Van Zan (McConaughey) offers hope to the nerve-racked english survivors, hiding in a castle.This movie is not big on story, or any particular theme. It's about one thing. Dragons. Dragons killing people, and people getting pissed off and killing dragons. And for that, it is great. The graphicas are very good, for most of the picture. At times (Especially at far-away or large encompassing shots of the male dragon) it becomes almost painfully apparent how fake it is, but those occasions are fairly well. The dialouge, though not all that important and hard to understand (Due to dialect) at times, is well written.A good geek film overall. If you've always wanted to see extremely kickass dragons that don't talk with cruddy scottish accents, watch this movie. if you want to see people jumping out of helicoptors trying to throw nets over dragons in mid flight, watch this film. Hell, if you like dragons in any way, shape, or form, check it out! They've never looked better or more evil! "},{"Title":"Slowly Burns out Like Candle","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess when I saw this movie I had High expectations. I am a fan of all forms of Post apocolyptic movies, so I just assumed this one would be just as good. I was wrong. The special effects are great, however sometimes the dragons seem too fake like a bad Power ranger episode. I liked Christian Bale in American Psycho, but this film definatly does not fit his mystique.On the Other hand I think this is probably the best job in a role that I have ever seen Matthew McConaughy play. I was scared to death of him. That is the only thing however that kept me watching the film.If you have nothing better to do on a Saturday Night This film will suit you, otherwise just rent it "},{"Title":"No plot, no characters, no story.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is distinctly lacking in....everything!  I liked it and I support it because I like fantasy and appreciate their take on dragon rendering.  Beyond that there is really nothing to discuss.  They will make their money back (and more)but not for creating anything really special. Both Dungeons and Dragons and Dragonheart were much better movies.  I would say wait for the DVD or tape, but I also like seeing movies on the big screen with an audience.  I could be more negative and critical but they were cool dragons. "},{"Title":"just don't ask any questions about the plot","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you just want to sit back and enjoy the CGI of the dragons, it's okay. But once you start questioning anything about the plot, the story starts to fall apart.  Very little about it makes any sense.  And the acting wasn't very good, either. "},{"Title":"A Monster Movie With Heart!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see Reign of Fire for three simple reasons dragons, post-apocalyptica, and Christian Bale.  I knew that, even if the rest of the movie was terrible, Christian would make it great.  And luckily, the rest of the movie WASN'T terrible.  In fact, it was very good!  Most monster movies focus too much on the monster, and not enough on the people who surround it.  This film doesn't make that mistake.  Rather than being a film about evil dragons who kill people and burn things, it's a movie about a man (Quinn, played by Christian Bale), and the life that man has known.  We see him go from a young boy who's been doing badly in school, and grow into a strong man and leader, who is willing to die to keep his enclave of survivors alive and safe from the dragons.  When Van Zan (McConaughey) arrives, Quinn sees the fragile grip he's had on these people's lives slipping away.  For a while, it drives him a little mad.  Then, it gives him new purpose.  Christian Bale is an amazing actor, and he gives the character depth that ISN'T just written into the script - it's the kind of thing that a lesser actor would have failed with, but which Christian Bale does marvelously.Lest you think Christian is the only fine actor of the bunch, let me assure you, he's not!  Matthew McConaughey also does a fantastic job as Van Zan, the rough American dragonslayer who shakes up Quinn's tremulous existence in Northumberland.  The character could have been a violent warmongerer, but McConaughey gives him enough emotion that you can believe there's a man inside that hard-as-steel physique.   Izabella Scorupco (Alex) does a wonderful job - she's not the damsel in distress, but she's also not the hard as nails ice queen so many of these movies like to foist on the audience.Another added bonus there's no swearing, no sex, and, to be honest, very little bloodshed, at least for a movie of this type. You only see a few people get eaten.  The rest is all implied.  So while it's certainly not a kiddie film, you don't have to worry about the gore you might tend to associate with this type of movie.If you want a monster movie with heart, you could certainly do worse than Reign of Fire. "},{"Title":"Better than average, but not the greatest.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very excited about seeing this movie before making my way to the theater, but was let down a little.  I guess part of it is that they portray an armageddon-like problem (the dragon scourge) that the militaries of the earth couldn't contain but 3 people single-handedly could.  It's also hard to imagine that a dragon would be buried under a city for millions of years without ANYONE knowing.  How did it get there?  Was there a way for it to get out?  How did it eat or even breathe?On the other hand, the special effects were done very well.  I've always been a dragon fanatic and to watch them fly and wreak havoc was exhilarating.  I remember having a similar feeling the first time I watched Dragonheart.  I have a haunting suspicion there will be a part two since Quinn pulled a dragon egg from one of the slain dragons.Anyway, if you still feel compelled to watch this movie then go to the matinee and save yourself a few bucks. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Summer Movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Reign of Fire' was neither great nor bad, but it was entertaining.  The film has a very 'Road Warrior'-esque feel, with dragons ruling the post-apocalyptic wasteland.  Christian Bale is convincing as the leader of the survivors, and Matthew McConaughey hams it up shamelessly as General Van Zan.  He walks around flexing the entire film, and appears to be enjoying the opportunity to overact so wildly.  There are certainly plot holes (where do they get fuel, batteries, etc.), but the conflict of man against dragon keeps the viewer interested. "},{"Title":"B-movie? Of course not.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're looking for a fun two hours, and the combination of dragons and mad max-like settings sounds appealing, look no further. Yes, this isn't a masterpiece. Yes, it has all the elements of a B-movie. But it isn't. It's actually very well made and, unless you just look at the poster and trailer and know this is not your kind of thing, you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Amazing Acting","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christian Bale does a beautiful Job as Quin the fire fighter.  Matthew McConaughey does well by His character Denton.  Dragon's seem to be able to fly awfully well for having so many holes in their wings...  It could have done without the love story between Alex and Quin. "},{"Title":"Rebirth of the monster movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Terribly good fun, with brilliant production design, and just the right mix of desperate situation and winking dialogue, Reign is survival horror as it hasn't been done since George Romero.The film's accomplishment is to take the gritty stacked odds of Romero's Dead trilogy and pair it with the iron-plated biological terror of the Aliens series.  Planet-wide agoraphobia!For genre fans, Reign has a deft way of appealing to both the thirteen and thirty-year old in you -- this is that elusive pop culture mastery, a casual kind of genius about pushing narrative buttons, tightrope walking between hokiness and plausibility, stacking up menace and delivering thrills.The script has some superb throwaway quips and the narrative a slower, more methodical pace than most contemporary junk (several nice detours for backstory and texture).  The cast delights with plenty of bug-eyed seething, stomping, and screaming.  And the dragons are hellish.  What superior pop crapola Reign is!  I wasn't displeased for a second. "}{"Title":"Lamebrained Waste of Time(Spoiler Alert)","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not one of those killjoys who tear apart every movie for its disloyalty to basic scientific principles. I'll willingly suspend my disbelief to permit giant flying fire-breathing dragons even though the aerodynamics would require them to having a wingspan about the size of Long Island.But what I cannot deal with are movies where the plotline is intensely stupid denying even the most basic reality. Let's see now. The dragons came up from the earth after hibernating for about 100 million years. I'll buy that. They commenced to burning up the entire planet in order to make it into ash so they could digest it. OKAY. The world's leaders decided that they didn't know how to get rid of the dragons, so they fired off nuclear weapons destroying civilization. No, I don't think so. Two decades later, a small band of survivors armed with crossbows and C4 explosives kill off the lead dragon. No way, Jose.The writers of this film have obviously never heard of either Afghanistan or Somalia. In both places, illiterate tribesmen essentially living in the Stone Age were able to bring down helicopter gunships belonging to the world's superpowers, the USSR and the US, using hand-held Stinger missiles about the size and weight of a bazooka. Thousands and thousands of Stingers were smuggled into Afghanistan during the Eighties. They are cheap to produce and easy to use. In other words, if the Earth were threatened by a bunch of dragons, the President could call up the Chairman of the NRA, ask him for his membership list and give each member free Stinger missiles and a bounty for dead dragons and end the problem without appreciably threatening the budget deficit let alone risking the destruction of the planet. The dragons might make for interesting entries in an upcoming World Barbecue Competition but that's about it.Let's go to the movie. Christian Bale really tried hard but as Casey Stengel said of the 1962 Mets, 'You can't make chicken salad out of chicken feathers.' MAtthew McConnaughey was awful, chewing up scenery like some roided-up refugee from Vince McMahon's WWE. Isabella Skorupca looked good. It was nice to see her buffer than in the Bond flick she appeared in but as an actress she has two emotions, standing up and sitting down.  The effects were good not great. The sound system was awful. The accents nearly unintelligible.Maybe, I just don't like 'post-apocalypse' flicks generally. It is really hard for me to believe that within a generation of the world-destroying disaster that the remnants of humanity lose all their ability to do anything. That didn't happen after the fall of the Roman Empire and literacy was not commonplace then. I found myself watching this film asking when the remnants of Britain were living in their castle/mine/cave whatever, 'Doesn't anybody have a g-damn cellphone in all of g-damn Britain?'Maybe, the dragons developed a true 'smart bomb' and killed everybody in the world with an at least room temperature IQ.The only thing that rang true in the movie was that the Americans tried to confront their vicious adversary, while the Brits just ran and hid and whined about the Americans in typical European fashion. Plus ca change, plus la meme chose.Where are Mike and the Bots when you need them?? "},{"Title":"Had promise","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The production design, cinematography, and dragon SFX are good.  The script and story execution is where it falters.  It's a good idea but the movie moves to slowly and builds up to a supposed grand battle that seems to be over before it begins. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"not bad, kind of reminded me of road warrior","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Matthew McConaughey is no mad max, but him and christian bale held their own in this movie. special effects were top notch. the setting of the movie was perfect. especially the dark imagery of england in ruin. there could have been more action sequences. so i gave this movie 7 out 10 "},{"Title":"Balanced but too brief","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Action movies have been the bane of human existence for two decades. Dragon movies may well be the bane for the next two.  As happens with all well-made movies of any genre, once a standard is set, it can only go downhill. Granted, Reign of Fire has elements of both action and horror movies, but from the second the crisis is introduced until the last line, there is so much more to the story than just the outmost conflict of man versus beast. Such addition lifts the story line above the standard usually found in action movies, at least for now.(Spoilers ahead)Quinn Abercromby, the main character, is bogged down by guilt over events he couldn't control, and yet manages to govern a colony of survivors in the time of lawlessness.  From the pathetic scene of  `Star Wars' Quinn and his best friend reenacted for the  children to his choked recitation of the commandments he drafted and drilled into the survivors through rote, Christian Bale shows that there is more to his character than just finding and killing `the beast'.  From the beginning when we are introduced to the personal `issue' Quinn has with the bull dragon to the final scenes that involve his rapidly expounding faith in his ward, the audience sees that despite Quinn's tough, weathered face the word at the root of his heart is `family'.  The combination of vulnerability and impassiveness makes Quinn a true hero. Van Zan is not afforded that luxury.  From the second he breezes onto the screen to the instant he flies off it, Matthew McConaughay's character is nothing more than a cardboard catalyst.  Your typical American, Van Zan comes in, shakes things up and, despite an almost tender moment the night after the Americans arrive, is about as emotional as the dragons he hunts. Necessary to do the job?  Yes, but Van Zan is detached to the point of madness.  After a very short while, his character becomes boring, yet his adrenaline-packed action sequences are enough to draw in the teenage boys and keep them watching. Finally, the real stars of the movie  the dragons.  To put it simply, they were a perfect nightmare.  From the coloring- thankfully black, showing the production crew did SOME research into the myths- to the malevolent gleam in the bull's eyes as he stalked his final prey, almost everything was `on'. Sure, there was the occasional physical impossibility (how does a creature with huge wings but no arms make its way up an elevator shaft?) but overall, the general effect of the dragons is startling, especially with the real fire.In summary, the characters were unpredictable in their quality, the dragons were excellent most of the time, and the setting, not mentioned above, was perfect for the plot.  The dialogue was real, but could've packed more meaning without being bogged down, and the end was pure poetic justice. The rough, apocalyptic hero of the movie is an excellent departure for Mr. Bale and it was refreshing, if a bit annoying, to see Matthew McConaughay in a role that would have been better serviced by Vin Diesel.  My only complaint is the content  the writers could have done much more with the world they created, making the movie longer and showing specific events from Quinn's intermediate past to draw the viewer in.  Action movies are no longer exclusively for boys, and it would have been nice to see more of the hero's past, creating a stronger bond between Quinn and the audience.  "},{"Title":"Well it's about time!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I tell you it has been awhile since a decent creature flick got me.  You know what I mean...where you sit in the theater and really begin to believe that such monsters exsist.  Well in Reign of Fire they do. I really liked this movie.  I had my doubts of course, with all the hype and all. Reign is the story of a futuristic world in which dragons, not man, have come to dominate the planet.  The dragons have been apprearing for almost a decade again (their last run wiped out the dinosaurs) and all that's left of mankind is ash and a starving humans led by none other then American Psycho himself, Christian Bale.  Bale is very good as Quinn Abercrombie, the man who must ultimatly save the planet.  So is Matthew McConaughey as dragonslayer Denton Van Zan.  Denton Van Zan--an awesome name for a dragonslayer don't you think?  I don't want to tell you the plot, and yes there are holes in it.  the biggest thing I remember was how convinced I was that this was a real place where people strived to live.  The landscape shots and the castle shots are awesome.  Reminded me of Barter Town or a place Lord Humungus would like to hang out.  Go check it out. "},{"Title":"Flaming good fun.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a lot of fun.  I like the creature fx--the dragon had logical construction and moved in a believable way, which is a big make-or-break for me.  The plot was a bit sketchy in places, and the pacing was a little off toward the end, but all in all, I enjoyed it, and would recommend it to anyone who likes post-apocalyptic fantasy/sf movies.I enjoyed the performance given by Izabella Scorupco, as well.  She was excellent in Vertical Limit, and I've been wanting to see more of her. She did not disappoint.  And of course, McConaughey was as cute as ever, even grimy and ash-streaked.The nod to Star Wars A New Hope had everyone rolling. "},{"Title":"High Excitement Passes Quickly","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This definitely is not like the last two major movies to contain dragons (Dungeons & Dragons, and Dragonheart).  Packed with action and edge-of-your-seat momentum, the movie starts well, and moves quickly. However, I found it riddled with plot holes and predictability.  Vehicles seem to have infinite fuel, and the physics of collisions seem to be ignored.  I was disappointed in the amount of actual dragons that appeared in the movie.  I expected a massive battle scene on the level of the one at the end of Dungeons & Dragons; I expected more heroism and tear jerking, but I was sorely disappointed on both accounts.  At the end of the film, I turned to my companion and exclaimed, Where's the rest of the movie? This is one that I'll wait to see what extras are added to the DVD, and if nothing special is added, I won't find the need to buy it. In summary, watch the movie in the theatre, but wait for it to hit the cheap one. "},{"Title":"Alpha-male Machismo Cinema Deluxe","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The world is over-run by legions of ferocious fire-breathing dragons, leaving cinders in their wake.This film is really about beards... yes lots of beards!  There is alot of snarling, and flexing, and pontificating about strength and survival and such.  Some of the dialogue between Van Zan (a bearded and bald Matthew McConaughey) and Quinn (Christian Bale, also bearded) would make Popeye and Bluto blush.After Van Zan's bearded army intent on dragon slaying get slain themselves, Van Zan and Quinn with the help of Alex (Izabella Scorupco, beardless... She is the film's Smurfette), Van Zan's loyal helicopter pilot, go Beowulf on some dragon butt!That's about it.  Nothing special, just a damn fun film. "},{"Title":"bad film","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw Reign of Fire, which I had waited to see for a couple of months. I was very, very disappointed.First off, I can't understand this fashion of making summer films that are one and a half hour long. Not only the time of entertainment is short, but the films are horrible, which ads to the rip off.Now, the film. I was expecting something rather interesting. The subject itself is quite promising dragons awake, they rule the Earth, and the human race has to find a way to survive. Not your every-day post-Apocalyptic subject, I must say. Unfortunally, a good idea won't give you a good film. You first will need a script written, and in this case it was mediocre, predictable and totally non-entertaining.Then we go onto the direction, and in this case the director (Sorry, I don't know his name) did a pretty good job, considering the lousy screenplay he had. Things weren't overdone, maybe a few camera shots were unexplainable, but overall pretty good *SPOILER AHEAD* The battle between Dragon Slayer and the dragon at the end is quite good, I must say. *END OF SPOILER*.As for the actors, nothing I can particularly complain about. Not Oscar-nomination performances, but for this kind of film, they'll do well. One gets the usual horrible cheesy lines, some of them humorous, but the acting was good.The score wasn't anything amazing worth underlining, and as the acting, it does its job. CGI is very good, but we are used to it nowadays.In short a good idea, but with a horrible story written after it. Without a good story, you'll always get a bad film. It is short and, considering this film is meant to entertain, not make us rethink our lives, it doesn't serve its purpose whatsoever.4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that this movie was pretty good. I thought it  would be predictable, but it wasn't. It's not one of the best movies of all time, but it was okay. Matthew McConaughey was pretty funny, eventhough this movie wasn't really meant to be funny. It was a movie that you only watch once, so I would recomend seeing it in theaters, or renting it. "}{"Title":"Contender for worst of year","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Gravely disappointed in this film.  I saw the previews months ago and had been looking forward to it for some time, despite the fact that it certainly isn't one of the more heralded movies of the summer.  The movie is FAR TOO SHORT, and doesn't make good enough use of what time it has.  The plot is too simple, and the action sequences too brief.  Why not show some of planet earth's lost battle against the dragons before the survivors huddle up like rejects from Road Warrior 3?  If not that, then certainly show some of the journey of Van Zant and his crew from the United States.  The movie just doesn't offer enough of anything.  Matthew M. looks like he's trying to become the next Vin Diesel, with his buff physique, tattoos, and shaved head.  He has very few speaking roles in this film, and quite frankly I'm left wondering if his career has really sunk this low (to take a role such as this).  The dragon special effects are well done, but again, there simply aren't enough of them.Wait for video.  Certainly not worth the 7.50 $ I just payed. "},{"Title":"Well it's about time!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I tell you it has been awhile since a decent creature flick got me.  You know what I mean...where you sit in the theater and really begin to believe that such monsters exsist.  Well in Reign of Fire they do. I really liked this movie.  I had my doubts of course, with all the hype and all. Reign is the story of a futuristic world in which dragons, not man, have come to dominate the planet.  The dragons have been apprearing for almost a decade again (their last run wiped out the dinosaurs) and all that's left of mankind is ash and a starving humans led by none other then American Psycho himself, Christian Bale.  Bale is very good as Quinn Abercrombie, the man who must ultimatly save the planet.  So is Matthew McConaughey as dragonslayer Denton Van Zan.  Denton Van Zan--an awesome name for a dragonslayer don't you think?  I don't want to tell you the plot, and yes there are holes in it.  the biggest thing I remember was how convinced I was that this was a real place where people strived to live.  The landscape shots and the castle shots are awesome.  Reminded me of Barter Town or a place Lord Humungus would like to hang out.  Go check it out. "},{"Title":"Good ol' mindless fun","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie...in the vein of summer blockbusters.  It's got all the elements, big monsters, lots of action, and somewhat weak acting and story.  Which doesn't make it a bad movie at all.  It's enjoyable for what it is, summer getaway fare.  Don't go in expecting a deep riveting story or Oscar caliber performances (Matthew McConaughey's flat character and performance killed some of the films potential while Christian Bale's gave it more depth and emotion than an average film of this type, making it come up about even in the acting zone) and you're sure to walk out feeling like you got your hour and a half worth.   "},{"Title":"Creature feature","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a longtime dragon lover, so I really wanted to see this movie done right.  DragonHeart put acceptably realistic dragons on the screen, but had a plot a bit too light for my tastes.  Reign of Fire definitely was more serious in scope and mood, and although their dragons were even more natural and well animated, there were significant plot flaws that will disappoint many viewers.  For example, our lead character Quinn, leader of a failing survivalist colony, rides a horse in some of the more compelling action scenes.  It looks great, sure.  But if this colony was really struggling as much as they claimed, I'd wager that horse should have been converted into pony patties long ago.  The biology of the dragons is rather shaky as well, and the conclusion not as stirring or action-filled as I would have hoped. On the other hand, the dragons themselves look very cool...when they're on screen.  I'd compare this best to Jurassic Park II excellent CG creatures, passable acting, but patchy plot.  Not horrible or outstanding, just another creature feature. "},{"Title":"A little more than a barnburner...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire was one of those movies that wasn't hyped as much as some of the other movies this summer, and because of that, I wasn't planning on seeing it until it came out on video.  Then I got talked into seeing it -- and I liked! The movie opens up in modern-day London, where Quinn is going to visit his mom at her dig site (she was building tunnels).  Then her co-workers have Quinn go in to check out the site, and what does he do?  He wakes up the big bull dragon! 20 years and one gigantic barbecue later, we come back to Quinn, all grown up.  The dragons control Earth, and man is in hiding.  Enter Americans Denton, Alex, and a host of others, and we have immediate conflict (apparently, even though successful, the Brits weren't happy with our methods -- sounds familiar).  They band together, and well, that's all I'm really gonna say about it, you'll have to see the rest for yourself! Reign of Fire was predictable, but really, who doesn't already know what's gonna happen?  It's not about the twists and superb storyline.  It's about pure, unadulterated action, special effects, and fire that would do more than make Beavis and Butthead proud!  Really good movie, 8 stars. "},{"Title":"Could have been much more","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the near future, during the construction of a tunnel beneath the city of London, the lair of a dormant dragon is accidentally stumbled upon.  This sets off a cataclysmic event of hundreds of dragons destroying the earth and feeding on mankind. With humans on the brink of extinction in 2020 AD, a group of survivors, led by Quinn Abercromby (Bale), reside in a castle in England.  They are nearly out of hope when a supposed 'dragon slayer' named Denton Van Zan (McConaughey) and his company of Americans, including Alex (Scorupco) a helicopter pilot, show up with a plan to kill the dragons.This film did not disappoint special-effects wise, and the acting was well done.  However that didn't make up for the fact that there were gaps in the plot.  The movie ends leaving many questions unanswered.  It would have been better to see more of the destruction of earth's great cities.  All that we see is in a TIME magazine!  Watching the dragons destroy cities like New York and Paris would have given the setting a broader perspective instead of staying in England the whole time.  Another part I would have liked to see would have been Van Zan in America killing a dragon in Kansas, and their trip across the Atlantic Ocean to England.  This would have given the audience a better feel of the dragons impact on the world and Van Zan's desire to kill them.  One more thing I would have done would be to go into detail on Bale's hate for the creature responsible for his mother's death. This movie had the potential to be spectacular.  It is significantly better than other dragon movies such as Dungeons and Dragons, but is certainly not an action/adventure epic. "},{"Title":"good times!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire was highly enjoyable! the special effects used to create the dragons were amazing and the acting was superb! Christian Bale, as always, took my breath away with his capability to play such a variety of characters...he's done everything from a singing newsboy to a psycho killer! Reign of Fire was excellent, two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"There were some bright sparks here!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I wasn't really expecting a blockbuster, but I really think Matthew McConaughey has totally lost the plot here.  I thought that perhaps Christian Bale might pick up the slack, but no...he spent most of the film trying to look like a very, very angry young man!  Rob Bowman usually provides interesting TV and film fare (see X-Files), but...well.  It didn't quite hit here.What did work was the humour brought to the film by Creedy played by Gerard Butler.  He was a bright note along with the really well created dragon graphics....pretty neato.But, it's not in the same 'Ring' as 'The Lord of', so if that's what you're looking for, give it a miss.  But, for a light, action-packed and often (maybe not deliberately) humorous flick, head out on 1/2 price night or for a matinee! Won't burn the pocketbook too badly  ) "},{"Title":"ummm,.. where are all the helicopters???","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  so... kid sees dragon, same kid as a grown up man hides from the dragon, bunch of yanks screw up killing the dragon (WITH ONE FREAKIN HELICOPTER), and the brit saves the day... but nowhere (and i mean NOWHERE) did i see any dragons ripping apart ANY towns at all!!did i mention that there was only ONE FREAKIN HELICOPTER!@! "},{"Title":"Good popcorn flick.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this flick, the Special effects were great and blended well with the live action(a feat not done very well as of late). The story is not the best but good enough to get this vehicle where its going. If you are one of those people who has a very strong feeling about the medieval dragon mythos then you will miss the movie and the best attempt at special effect dragons in a long time. So go and enjoy but dont invest too much. "}{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Save your money.  The only good thing in this movie is the dragons (they look sweet).  The plot is a bit stupid and I found myself trying not to fall asleep.  I didnt go into this movie with high hopes, and I was right. But everyone is different... "},{"Title":"Superb Dragon Movie","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Really slow to start but that doesn't last long. The actual destruction is not shown, would've been great to see more of that. Otherwise a great movie. Perfect for young teens, no sex, not scarry and the Computer Graphics is great. Not much of a chance for a sequel and gets off the end a little, but I loved it, even though it could've been more. "},{"Title":"Poster scene is not in the movie!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Poster scene is not in the movie!  The promotional imagery is everywhere outside the theater, but not on the screen. The details of what's wrong with this picture might spoil the film, so all I'll say is that if the movie seems less than satisfactory to people, perhaps their expectations like mine were guided by this fantastic though misleading image.  That's a pity because the film is quite fun for what it is.  If it weren't for the expectations created by the image on the posters, billboards, and official website, I wouldn't have been disappointed. "},{"Title":"FUN, BUT DUMB HUMANS MAKE YOU ROOT FOR THE DRAGONS","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept borders on the ludicrous a subway construction site in London (deeper than those in the U.S.) unearths a live DRAGON that spawns a multitude of other dragons who destroy London, and manage to virtually take over the earth despite nuclear weapons being used against them. Humanity is scattered to small communities.It gets more crazy. Two hundred soldiers can be quickly reduced to nothing but ashes, totally cremated, by the fire breathing dragon, but their leader is unharmed hiding under a tank - he should have been dry roasted by the heat.It gets crazier. To fight the dragon scourge humanity decides that if they kill the one male who is fertilizing that host of female egg-laying dragons no more baby dragons will appear and they will die out. One problem with that just because only one male animal fertilizes many females does NOT mean there are no other males! How many male trout, or other animals, die or are fought off by the dominant male, when trying to fertilize or mate with the female? A great many. So the method of defeating the dragons is ridiculous. It would never work.Even more ridiculous is Matthew McConaughey, leading the soon-to-be-cremated American army unit. He overacts so much he is almost laughable, while at the same time looking like he is undergoing Steroid Rage; he is so pumped up since the last time we saw him he must have been hitting the juice. Perhaps he thought Reign of Fire was a satire.Now for the good parts. The dragon FX are great. The dragons are fun. Burned out London reminds me of Stalingrad in World War Two from Enemy at the Gates. Very nicely done.The bottom line is that the humans were so stupid and obnoxious in this film I am very sorry the dragons didn't kill them all.BTW, if you like movies about London subway stations unearthing some sort of other-worldy horror, check out Quatermass and the Pit; it got a 7.0 on this site. "},{"Title":"unexpected praise","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i just saw Reign Of Fire today after having been dragged to it unwillingly...to me the trailer looked like a mindless film that would have me yawning from the opening credits, as far as I was concerned, this film wasnt for me...i was soon to be proved wrong. The film made no delay into jumping straight into the action, and I found myself captivated from the word go. It offers a perfect popcorn movie...you can let yourself get drawn into the fantasy world that is created and leave feeling very satisfied...ok so theres no huge storyline to follow or complex ideas...its simple and how it should be. Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale play their roles well, as do the dragons...I am personally not a fan of the type of Computer animation that stands out too much and I think that this movie used it perfectly...to me those dragons were real...the fire spilling out of their jaws like drool was so realistic...animals from a fantasy world being brought to life in front of your eyes-just as you imagine them. It may not be an Academy award winner...but it does just what you expect from it...fully entertains from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised by the believable unbelievable","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by Reign of Fire.  I didn't know much about it going into it.  I had seen the trailer only once, and expected it to be another futuristic flop.  It had real potential to suck gas, and could easily have turned into the likes of Waterworld.  However, it turned out to be a very enjoyable, suspenseful and action packed movie, without the cheese-factor of movies like Waterworld.  Movies whose subject matter is based on futuristic fiction more often than not lose their credibility and believability when they go too far with the set and costume design.  This movie knew when to say when in those areas, and did a nice job of keeping the unbelievable believable.   "},{"Title":"cheap thrills","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There is no need to be nice to movies like Reign of Fire and praise great performance or fun factor. The only extraordinary thing about it was that it showed dragons en masse at a time when they were reserved for Harry Potter movies. The rest is a straightforward post-apocalyptic action-fiction, so if you're into it, this is a movie for you.If not, you'd be left with a premise which might have been copied from a comic book. And maybe it had been, i haven't done my research. Anyhow, the dragons had been lurking in London subway for centuries, if not millennia, before they got accidentally unleashed upon mankind. I think this plot outline gives you a clear picture of what awaits inside. "},{"Title":"That's a big tank....","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The planet has been devastated by fire-breathing dragons. The last of humanity now struggle for survival at remote outposts. In a ruined castle in the English countryside, Quinn is desperately trying to hold together a band of frightened, restless survivors. As a boy, Quinn watched his mother die protecting him from one of the beasts, and is still haunted by the memory. A group of American soldiers show up, led by Van Zan. He claims to have discovered a way to kill the dragons once and for all, and enlists Quinn's help. But doing so will force Quinn to confront his own frightening memories. This, and Quinn's responsibilities to those that are under his protection, results in a battle of wills between the two men......I never really liked this film when it was first released, but it was more of a disappointment than a poor quality film. It looked great, a one sheet to die for, Bale hot off American Psycho, and in the end, a summer blockbuster about Dragons!What I got was Bales cockney accent and Matthew 'Mahogany' trying to be as buff as possible and outwit each other, with a few scenes of Dragons. The premise is brilliant, and in the right hands, with a bigger budget, could have been one of the hits of the year. But is executed poorly, and despite Bale being as good as usual, he is let down by lack of anything interesting.A film about Dragons shouldn't be boring or drag, but this does, and it's a shame, because there is yet to be a really good Dragon movie. "},{"Title":"it could of been really good","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this one could of been really good. a few things kept it down and that makes this a iffy so-so movie. nothing bad nothing good and it could of been great. i like the idea it was interesting enough yet it needed just a little more of everything including budget, everything just fell apart towards the end and just got more ridiculous at the movie ended. a better director would made this movie The Big One. casting was really good with Christian Bale, Matthew McConaughey, Gerard Butler, and Izabella Scorupco. the story just needed to be tweaked more towards the ending and a much better director and this would of been so so good. enough about that, its still a decent movie and worth watching if your into a max max type world that has dragons. i hope they remake this film and do it right, or make part 2 and do that one justice. "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire...Not Really....","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Quality Director can't save this pot hole filled with plot gaps and just silly logic flaws. Dragons have taken over the world , yet when Atomic devices were used, they couldn't stop the flying fire blasting beasts. Well, as the story goes, the survivors have just a few half-ass trucks converted into makeshift military vehicles, oh, and 1 helicopter. Great, so the Dragons create havoc at will. Quinn Abercromby(Christian Bale), who as a young lad was the first child to encounter the single male dragon.The Dragon then continues to populate the world, somehow, and then the dragons begin to starve and die off. So, they have to kill the only male dragon to ensure there would be no more breeding. Got it ? Yeah, I know. But what does save this film from total lucridity are the more than capable direction, and the superior special effects. Other than that, you don't need to think while watching, otherwise you will just get annoyed. Dark and desolate are the countrysides of England where the action takes place. Apocaylptic in its' nature, brooding and sullen in its' tone. So, if you like fire breathing dragons, and Christian Bale, Matthew McConaughey, and Izabella Scorupco, she is a honey, (I like dragons ) just enough to watch this film. So , it gets an 6 out of 10, I hope Bowman got final cut. "}{"Title":"Firey, stupid and fun","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When Pirates of The Carribbean hit the multiplexes in 2003, one of the reasons why people flocked to it was because pirate films are few and far between. The last one before it was the box office flop which goes by the promising name of Cutthroat Island. Before Pirates of the Caribbean, there was Reign of Fire. Dragon films are equally few and far between. Touchstone Pictures was probably thinking the same thing eight years ago, Hence they went ahead and distributed Reign of Fire, hoping people will see it as something new and worth paying for a ticket. The movie is silly and unbelievable as one might expect, but it is also low on clichs, fairly simple and strait forward, and entertaining enough that it works well as an action as well as a sci-fi and a creature feature.The year is 2020. Following a decade of dragons charring the planet, Earth is now a hellhole. People survive in scattered groups. The story zooms in on one of these groups. A young Scotsman by the 'very' Scottish name of Quinn has turned an old castle into a care centre for orphans. They are reasonably safe, but food is scarce and their weapons are not many. One day however, American colonel Van Zant rolls into town with a squad, asking for sanctuary. He knows how to kill dragons, but can be persuade Quinn and his friends to help him undertake a massive dragon hunt, which risks everything he has built.Reign of Fire takes the fight deep under ground, across the land, and also high up in the air. I think I can safely say Reign of Fire delivers what it promises, but with plenty of extra stupidity. Even if you end up loving it, it is a guarantee that you'll find at least one problem with the movie. What bothered me a little when I first saw it, was the image of the future. It doesn't feel like the future, more like the past. Despite all the destruction, people still have electricity, so who is running the electrical companies? if there are any left.Dragons can come in all shapes and sizes. They can be ugly and vile like the one in Dragonslayer which looks like the warty,scaly Jack Pallance of dragons. Or they can come as aerodynamic acrobats of the sky like Reign of Fire. The creatures here are the first dragons I've seen with no arms or legs. They look like Bats, and as dumb as the film is, I think a biologist would agree which me that these Dragons are the most scientifically accurate fliers. Their light weight bodies. allow them to move fast and agile enough that anyone free falling from a helicopter, will never know what hit him when they come swooping down out of the fog.Anyway I think I've made my point. Flawed as it is, Reign of Fire delivers. On account of its not very positive reception, the movie seems to be heading for oblivion, but it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire - One of the best movies ever seen","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When it first premiered on TV I remember seeing some scene and then changing the channel immediately afterwards. My first impression was that it was some medieval based dragon war thingy(I hadn't seen the copters by then or the machinery). But the other day , getting bored reading the newspaper,I switched on the TV and on came Reign of Fire. I said why not give it a shot - It's got Matthew Mcconaughey and Christian Bale - It can't be that bad...boy was it awesome!!From the word 'Go' ROF switches into the 5th gear, taking us straight to the story of how dragons returned from their hibernation. News flashes and newspaper clippings tell us that they were the real reason behind the extinction of dinosaurs(after extensive research of course). This is 2008. Shift to 2020 and we see a band of survivors in England(well not band..there are more than hundreds of them)living in fear from dragons. They are waiting for the dragons to die out slowly, taking no action other than hiding in doing so. This group of survivors is led by Quinn(Christian Bale). Soon we're joined by marines from US led by Van Zar(Matthew Mcconaughey). It is evident their is distrust between the 2 leaders, their styles of facing the dragons also different(Van Zar likes to hunt 'em down). These marines arrive at Quinn's place asking for shelter for a few days. Soon after dragons attack and we see how capable Van Zar and his troops are, particularly Alex(Izabella Scorupco). From here on the viewer is thrust into a world full of action, dragons, artillery and shouting albeit all with sense and right amount of witty dialogues.From the action point of view ROF has some amazing CGI to boast about for a 60million budget. The dragons look cool and believable, the action is well choreographed and it's not always about the action, which is the best part about this movie. Rob Bowman knows just when to mix the action with smart dialogues, intimacy and vigor.The acting is spectacular. Izabella Scorupco is spot on with Alex, a trained hard copter pilot who is not all emotion less. Scott Moutter, who plays Jared(like a son to Quinn), is given a bigger role than you'd think he'd be given and he plays it accurately. But the surprise comes from Matthew. Matthew tries something new this time, something I don't believe he's ever done before and he plays it so god darn well. The stone hearted person who cares for nothing but to kill the dragons yet knows he needs his men. Truly Matthew adds something special to this film. But the real package is Christian Bale. I've seen his batman series and I'm not much of a fan of his acting(though the series otherwise is quite outstanding)and I know that ROF came 3 years before Batman Begins did, but still I gotta say I was surprised when I saw Christian bale not talking in his rough undertoned voice. That's the first thing that got me glued to my TV screen! His acting is superb, his dialogue delivery is impeccable, the frequent changes in the frequency of his voice are so precise for the character. There's no one who could've played this role better.As I said the dialogues are witty, the plot is carefully thought out, the acting is superb(except for Gerard Butler who I found was overacting), the action is amazing, all this making the movie totally awesome!I'm gonna go with a 9 out of 10. The one point cut because I don't believe In perfect movies and I think the grand finale could've been more grand.P.S - The subtle intimacy scenes between Quinn and Alex are so delightful! You expect them to kiss or do something but that's what the filmmakers wanna show. A war is at hand and people who've just met can't be making out like that!Even till the end! Awesome Film!!! "},{"Title":"Gaping plot hole, but I liked the film","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Year's later, I see a considerable plot discrepancy. Too bad there's no search function for user comments, so I don't know if anyone else caught this.From the film synopsis Their theory is that they are like fish, the females would lay their eggs, then the male would come and fertilize them, leaving them with the concept that there is only a single male within the whole dragon population world-wide.In the scene where Quinn investigates the dragon they killed near the castle, he pulls out a translucent egg, and you can see the baby dragon inside. This means the egg was already fertilized. Oops, there goes the fish analogy. "},{"Title":"Grand firey fun","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Y'know, this movie wasn't half bad. Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale make good tough-hide action heroes and the special effects were pretty decent--coming out at a time when CGI mostly looked like plastic. It has an interesting premise, too, mixing post-apocalypse survivalism and dragon slaying adventure. I rather like it, in fact.Dragons are real and are, apparently, the cause of most of the famous devastations on Earth, including the extinction of the dinosaurs. When they come back to wipe out the over-populated humans, it's time for modern artillery meets dragon-slaying adventure as a few survivors meet up to try and find the Male Dragon (the only one, apparently, that helps the dragons reproduce--I smell a great potential for a sequel!) What I found interesting is that here was a post-apocalypse society where anarchy does not, in fact, flourish--because anyone dumb enough to revel in the lack of rules would quickly be eaten. Oppressed by their own mortality, for once, the characters are forced to literally fight down to the last fingernail. It's pretty sweet.It's certainly not perfect but it's a much better crafted action adventure film than most standard fare. The resolution is a little ridiculous, but this would be a movie where I wouldn't mind there being a sequel... or five... just for the grand fire-y explosiveness of it.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Disappointing and lacklustre film that tries to entertain and make a meek point but falls short overall.","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'll be honest, I don't really take to films involving dragons. But I do enjoy films of that adventurous, post-apocalyptic, horror possibly blended in with science-fiction ilk such as 28 Days Later and Twelve Monkeys. Alas Reign of Fire cannot hold a torch much-less so a light of any sort to those two films but it may be possible to get a feint kick out of what the film has to offer during its point of attack and the concentration on Christian Bale's character as an orphaned; somewhat disturbed male living in a post-apocalyptic dystopia with the few human survivors that remain.But rather than go down a route of intellect or insight revolving around post-apocalyptic societies or perhaps even trying to make some sort of statement al George Romero in his shopping mall based Dawn of the Dead, Reign of Fire prefers to entertain its audience with its CGI dragons; long shots of the world in urban ruin and 'best friend-worst enemy' banter between Bale's character named Quinn Abercromby and American Denton Van Zan (McConaughey). It always feels a little odd watching a film at a time during which the film's narrative apocalyptic catalyst occurs. In this case, it's London 'around 2008' and a dragon is randomly awoken by construction workers underground. This event causes the end of the world after the dragons attack the human species and it's left to our own nuclear weapons to try and stop them. I suppose it is here at which Reign of Fire's commentary begins and ends if the construction team had not been underground, the dragon would never had awoken which could be a statement on modernity let's stop building and expanding and we won't eventually bring an end to the world. The other commentary could be a statement on nuclear arms and how, in the end, it was our own weapons that eventually destroyed the cities even if they were initially on fire via the dragons.But any film which ventures off down the route of 'man vs. CGI dragon' for its final act isn't going to have too many things to say in the end. The first time we see Bale's Abercromby, he is topless and plugging away at a rock with a pickaxe no-doubt an opening shot for the teenage girls this film's aimed at to savour. From here, it appears the Brits have holed up in a castle of some description attempting to keep themselves sane with two year old alcoholic spirits and re-tellings of Star Wars films. The post-modern world as we know it has been destroyed through our own lust to ever-expand and now we are reduced to ancient, aural techniques of telling stories in centuries old castles in Northern England &#150; the world has very much been set back a few hundred years.But like I said, the point of attack is the most interesting part of this film and it's only when the American's arrive that it begins to feel as if it has that 'American' touch. As a force, the American characters drive around in tanks; chew on cigars; are built considerably large and harbour tattoos. The British counterparts are relatively thinner in size, do not seem as gung-ho and indeed do prefer their nightly entertainment to revolve around story telling as opposed to loud rock music and dancing. But I do not think the film touches on a metaphorical context enough; that context being the film revolving around Britain and America teaming up to fight an enemy that has re-surfaced after many, many years of hibernation. You could read into it that the 'enemy' aren't dragons but is, in fact, terrorism. But then the fact this was not written or indeed shot post 9/11 even though it was first released in July 2002 floats to the surface and you realise there's nothing there anyway.So if when the Americans arrive the film changes its ideas and tone somewhat, then it's eventually for the bad. We have to start suspending our belief half way through a film that did not, under any circumstances, demand us to up until this point. But when we have a helicopter flying a few dozen thousand feet above the ground during a sequence in which the Americans are trying to capture the dragon rather than kill it, it feels a little cheeky. Similarly, the plot point involving Van Zan and his theory on what spawns these dragons feels utterly out of the blue and acts as a mere reason to shove the film into the direction of the final third. Some other things I was confused on involved why the dragons bother to eat the humans when it is made apparent about half way through that they can survive off ash &#150; strange. Also, when Abercromby and a few other Brits go off to rescue one of their own who has run away, they do not bring guns but when the Yanks arrive in their tanks, they have practically every turret within the castle they inhabit covered with soldiers wielding guns &#150; even stranger.Reign of Fire does not suffice as an action film and fails as a social commentary of any kind, even though there's a bit to read into nearer the start. The last act is a bit of a shocker and I do not believe for a second that Bale's character could be sure of the underground London layout all those years later. What if some of it had caved in? What if the chimney that provides the heroes with the twist of fate had collapsed in the mean time? These questions need not be asked in a film of this genre and consequently, Reign of Fire need not be considered anything above slightly ordinary. "},{"Title":"Beyond Scary","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" While the movie had a star cast and a bigger budget than many of the reviewers seem to believe, it could not rise above a weak plot. The idea that dragons could suddenly invade modern society is not the problem. Dragons are fantasy beasts and need no justification. But from that point on there has to be some consistency or the story loses substance. The over-riding plot hole is this One is made to assume that modern weapons were of no use against the dragons. Why would guns have no effect on the dragons? Why would heavy artillery and explosives have no effect on the dragons? But here's the preposterous part they can be killed by harpoons. A harpoon more effective than a cannon? Please. And the finally boss dragon? Killed by a crossbow with an explosive tip. Need i say more? Bad beyond scary. "},{"Title":"Kicks ass as a Fantasy dragon movie....","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie again today. It was shown on Dutch TV and I have to be honest, 3 years down the road, it's still impressive. Christian Bale seems to always go to the extreme in his character and the rest of the characters do just that what they should do in a Fantasy movie. This movie is one of the best dragon movies around........hum please critics, it's a dragon movie, nothing more, nothing less. One of the best out there. Also technically this movie has what it takes in the CGI scenes. Just look at the London scenes at the end of the movie, were the male dragon suddenly appears above the female dragons. If that doesn't make your juices flow, nothing will. Again, this is a good dark fantasy movie about dragons..... "},{"Title":"The world will end in fire...","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Genre Action/Horror/Apocalypse Summary 12-year-old Quinn Abercromby, a British schoolboy, accidentally unearths a beast in the subway caverns below London, England. The dragon that is released terrorizes the world and spawns millions more that destroy civilization almost entirely. World militaries, in an attempt to eliminate the creatures, only aid in the annihilation.By the year 2020, Quinn has gathered a band of 60-100 who reside in an old castle in Northumberland, England. They are a holdout, isolated from others, living in fear of the dragons, keeping two eyes on the sky. Here enters Denton Van Zan, an American dragonslayer. He and his team have been successful in destroying the dragons in America and have crossed the ocean to continue their seek and destroy mission. It is frequently reiterated that the world will be dominated by one species or the other. The question is who will win? Will mankind unite to drive out and vanquish the dragons that have ruled the earth for millennia? The idea of a dragon movie has the potential to be very cheesy and... dumb. However, director Rob Bowman (director; director of The X-Files) succeeds in producing a master monster movie.The sets were very well-done and realistic. For the most part, Reign of Fire was filmed onset by an experienced camera crew. Because of the setting (misty England, ashy destruction, smoky air), the resulting fog and eery lighting creates more opportunities to have a tense atmosphere.Bowman uses fire extensively (as can be imagined) and the effect is fantastic. There is always something burning, reminding the viewer of the danger lurking just around the corner.Suspense could be built better, but the idea that the characters are being hunted is enough to give an edge.Bowman creates the dragons as more than just animals- they have their own personality. They are cunning and smart, a step ahead of the characters, and (of course) they have heightened senses fabulous vision... except at magic hour, the half-light time between dusk and night.The acting is phenomenal. Christian Bale (of The New World and Batman Begins) stars as Quinn Abercromby, with Gerard Butler (Phantom of the Opera) as Creedy, Matthew McConaughey (Failure to Launch) as Denton Van Zan, and Izabella Scorupco (Exorcist The Beginning) as Alex Jensen. There are several child actors, as Quinn's compound has become a community, who all perform wonderfully. Admittedly, it is not difficult to act panicked when there is real fire on the set, but they all do very well. My only complaint is that the American crew led by McConaughey is supposedly from the south and Scorupco's polish accent does not lend credibility to the plot there.Rob Bowman has created a futuristic/fantasy world by combining the timeless legends of the dragons, of course, the castle back-drop, and the self-sufficiency of the surviving people, but he sets it in the future (almost present day) and therefore takes advantage of modern-day weaponry and the this-could-happen-to-us element.The movie does get a bit predictable, with the antagonists' tragic flaw of raring up and exposing the chest before breathing fire, and the failing vision at twilight. Also, there is not a lot of character development, although viewers can see that Quinn feels guilty and takes the blame for unleashing the monsters... and causing his mother's death. Thematically, Bowman expresses the idea that it will be either the dragons or our own destructive powers and disinclination to unite that ends the dominance by the human race. The dragons supposedly killed all the dinosaurs, and we wonder if mankind has evolved enough to the intelligence level of taking on these creatures and conquering them.Rated PG13, it is not suitable for family viewing. It is violent, though not especially gory. There are few curse words and no sex or drug content.Overall fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Average Commercial Film","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a very commercial movie, with pretty high budget and a story that might seem to get the people attention enough, People vs. Dragon. And pretty boy like Matthew to attract female, as he have no shirt on most of the time.Set in the near future when people unleash the sleeping dragon under the earth which soon destroys the whole world. The survivor are living in fear, until the military man (Matthew) join the force with a normal man (Christian) to end this war one and for all.OK, the story is not normally being seen in this modern days but it awfully familiar to the past. So it is a fusion. But somehow I don't get the story to be polish enough. The characters have no personality. The movie does have the selling point in Matthew and Christian, the two of the Hollywood famous actors; and a good backdrop and setting. And the directing is watch able, with a pretty good CGI of the dragons and fires.Recommendation Try Rental If You Want To See It.Rating 5.5/10 (Grade D) "},{"Title":"Very good, but could have been better","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have to start off by saying that on the whole, this movie was not bad, in fact, it was quite enjoyable to watch. But the honest truth is that it could have been so much better. Now I know that it isn't unusual for people to point out flaws here or there about a film like why didn't they do this instead of that nitpickey type stuff. But in this case I can't help but feel sorry for the sheer potential this movie was not given a chance to attain.Imagine Earth in a post-apocalyptic era, but instead of the ravages of a nuclear war we find the skies to be ruled by fearsome dragons who seek to hunt down and kill the few remaining humans. The beasts not only incinerate their targets with their fiery breath as the legends foretold, they feed upon the very ash which their destruction creates. The humans, battered and frightened by the dragons' sudden appearance and ruthless fury, struggle simply to survive as they are constantly under threat. This alone is an excellent premise that could have lead to an amazing film, but just as it seems to be gaining momentum it feels like it runs right into a wall. It's as if the director simply tried to tie up all the loose ends too quickly and in doing so stunted a story that might have been better left with a few mysteries unexplained, or battles yet fought. Again, the movie does deliver with great visuals, tense fiery battles and believable characters. See it if you haven't, hell maybe I'm expecting too much from this movie. But if you're like me it may just leave you wanting a little more. "}{"Title":"Watch it for Gerard Butler as Creedy---------","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragons!! They look like just what the are - drawn onto a screen like cartoons! The story is okay in a dark, fantasy kind of way. The only reason I would ever see something like this is to follow the career of one of its' stars. In this case, Gerard Butler.He plays the most human and natural character in the film, Creedy. Cracking wise with Christian Bale, interacting with the children of this dark, unpleasant place, and doing the hero that takes the ultimate risk, he is lively and interesting. I wanted to know more about his character. But, what do we get? Bale and his two expressions. Dour and dourer.And then there is Matthew McConaughey and his odd super-dooper nut job. Strangely, I enjoyed watching him more than the boring Bale. At least Matthew did crazy well.In fantasy films it is best to go in with your disbelief in check. A good one will just carry you along for the ride. This is not a very good one.But The Butler is worth a watch. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Blown Opportunity","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, was I ever fool enough to be fooled by the poster art. It promised spectacular action scenes of dragons torching out London, and doing battle with modern weapons and Apache copters.Now the bad news - Nothing even remotely similar appears in this dreary disappointer that is more blah blah blah than action and suspense. The dull dialogue offers nothing thought-provoking, and just keeps repeating what we already know.I'm one of those a-holes who wanted to see the dragons' destruction of most of mankind, which was totally skipped over in a quick montage/monologue, right after the first one escapes from the underground excavation site. Film also skips over its intriguing premise of the dragons' earlier reign of terror during prehistoric times, and how they were the 'real' cause of the dinosaurs' extinction. So, it wouldn't all be constant dragon attacks as some fear it could be.Otherwise, there are only a few quick unremarkable action scenes involving the dragons (well, one at least). And why are they partying with fire lights blazing and Hendrix blaring?! Isn't the world suppose to be under vigilant siege?! Or am I not getting it? I never felt any real sense of threat. There were millions that destroyed the world, weren't they? Well, where are they? And the militaries with all their advanced weapons can't stop them, but these jokers are able to save the day by simply shooting an arrow into its mouth? Hmmmmmm. I must be missing something. Oh! Right! It's only a dumb movie I can't even take seriously enough to suspend even the slimmest disbelief. And I was so bored, I just didn't care. Never an encouraging sign.Is it presumptuous of me to say that there are dumb popcorn flicks that at least entertain and deliver on their own fantastic terms - and boring ones that don't? There is some sort of difference, isn't there? All right, I'll stop being so smart and passionate enough to want films to deliver the action they promise. And for pointing out what a missed opportunity RoF was. And how it could have been so much better, if some inspired creative thought had been put into it. Sorry.Anyways, I am in favor of a decent prequel, as long as the screenplay and director know how to effectively handle it. But, due to the fact that RoF tanked, that now seems quite unlikely.Ah! But the exciting movie this could have been! Pity. "},{"Title":"Fire Reign he'll huff, and he'll puff, and he'll blow your house right off the map","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christian Bale, in a role light years removed from his crazy killer yuppie in American Psycho, is the British representative of the last surviving humans in England who are scourged by rampaging dragons, with Gerard Butler (Timeline, Lara Croft 2 and the upcoming Beowulf) at his side.Matthew McConaughey plays the American representative of a group of gung-ho wild cowboy commandos who go around hunting the dragons.When these two collide, all hell breaks loose. Plenty of chaos and mayhem abound, with lots of actors speaking in raspy voices that are supposed to make them sound tough and McConaughey going all out and over the top as the unstable American soldier, while Bale is quietly affable as his British rival-come-ally. Passable, reasonably entertaining B-movie made on a large budget. Don't miss Bale and Butler doing the play that spoofs The Empire Strikes Back! "},{"Title":"Not as good as expected...","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was hoping this film was gonna rock, but it didn't. Matthew McConehay(?) did, and Christian Bale, once he found his accent, was just okay. But the there were so many corny parts and quotes, ugh, a few were really bad. It really sucks when you feel embarrassed for watching a movie. But the dragons do come, and they burn everything in sight,which harbors some pretty great special effects. The two lead actors looked like they were on steroids, the dragons were definitely on steroids, and the script needed some steroids. I forget who directed it, but he could've done a better job as well. I don't understand why movies about cool things like dragons have to suck so bad, though this really wasn't terrible, just disappointing.I screwed up on my rating, I gave it a 9, though it deserves a 5 or 6. C **1/2 "},{"Title":"Inept screen writing drags Reign into the mud","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Frankly, For $95M, I Expected More...Like Perhaps Some Resemblance of a Script??I really do not know what these people were thinking. I looked and I read a $95 M budget for this movie?! Obviously, this immense budget was directed towards the effects, because the acting lessons and screen play were terribly neglected.The premise has mankind involved an Independence Day type conflict. It's them or us. This time, They are the denizens of Dragon Kind. The dragons featured in this movie are fire-breathers who feed on humans for sport. They are also western dragons, for those of you who know the difference, and extremely well done. I was so impressed with the DRAGONS! Mankind vs Dragons in an all-out war for the world. The possibilities were endless and I was very excited about seeing this on the big screen.The dragons featured are Black Dragons. Fire-breathers, as I mentioned before; meat-eaters. Black Dragons were the perfect choice for this scenario, as this is how they are portrayed through legend to have behaved. Good thing for us there never were more than a few in existence at a time, or this could very well have been a history lesson.*sighs* So much for the studio hype.Unfortunately, the wonderful black dragons featured here are all there is to be impressed -with- in this attempt. The story is riddled with huge plot holes and the worst kind of contrivances. That, and the utterly infantile dialog were enough to send me home even though I had read the critic reviews concerning the serious lack of action. Because of those reviews, I was really looking forward to an &#150;intelligent&#150; thought-provoking film. I thought that finally there has been a great movie done with realistic Dragons and no comic book feeling to it (by that comment, I refer to Dungeons and Dragons), when in reality this was a total waste of $95 M and nearly 2 hours of my life.Another minor problem I had with this movie was in the musical score. It sounded to me like it was written for an original episode of Cannon or Barnaby Jones. Then there was the gratuitous socio-phallic American-bashing. I'm sick of hearing that crap. The contradictions and plot holes are blatantly obvious to anyone who's seen the movie, so I won't bore you with them. To say that the plot was weak would be a gross understatement. The direction was seemingly adequate, when they remembered there were supposed to be Dragons in this movie, that is. There were some almost-creative anachronisms and a few innovations, but nothing worth bothering to mention.If you're looking for a couple hours' mindless fun, this is it. But for goodness sake, don't go into it expecting anything more than good Black Dragons and just ignore the rest of the trash filling in the time around their scenes.The best story element; that of the Dragons coming into power, was completely ignored for a non-existent plot line.It rates a 5.9/10, and that's only because the Dragons are great.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"so so","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie started off with a lot of potential. There was an Independence Day type theme to it in that the entire human race was under attack. The CGI was excellent, the dragons looked very realistic. Having said that... the script was weak. Some of the dialogue was drab and other words just plain unnecessary. Then there was the fact that even though all of humankind (in this case just a few British and Americans) was under attack, they were ready to kill each other. The setting was England and Americans were there to hunt down the male dragon. They had a lot of weapons and experience, they just lacked the man power. When they solicited the remaining British for help, their leader (Quinn) refused to help, nor let any of his people help, thereby pretty much condemning his community. It was sickening to see someone who's supposed to be the leader being a coward and being satisfied to die cooped up underground.Of course Quinn had to come from underground sooner or later, and he finally did to help slay the male dragon. The brave (or possibly cocky) American died trying to slay the male dragon while the star, Quinn, lived. "},{"Title":"Got light, please?","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed the viewing. Images were brilliant and used an exquisite contrast between cool colors of the landscapes and constructions and the fire. This makes the whole movie evolve in a dreamy atmosphere that has nothing to envy to major blockbusters of its kinds like Mad Max or whatever post-atomic era flick I can remind,Screenplay could have gained in sophistication, but I'm not sure it would have served the purpose. Special effects fulfill their role in an outstanding way.What more do we need? A cigarette maybe... No problem, there's plenty of lighters out there willing to help..  "},{"Title":"The Film this could have been . . .","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Talk about false advertising! This wins hands-down!The opening scene held so much promise as an unearthed dragon escapes from a London excavation site. But then the director immediately cuts to 20 Years Later - after everything worth seeing has already happened.IMHO, the film skipped right past the real story of the dragons' war against modern civilization. That was the movie that should have been made. It also could have expanded on its interesting premise of the scientists discovering that the dragons were the cause of the dinosaurs' extinction.And, how mankind fights back with all its modern weapons, but is defeated.It would have needed a really good script to explain some of the pseudo-science, to make it all seem plausible and convincing. Like, where did all the dragons come from, and why our weapons are unable to stop them, but imagine the truly suspenseful and terrifying film this could have been, if some real creative thought had been put into it.And, I don't mean in that silly Roland Emmerich way with all the dumb characters, trite dialogue and stupid clichs. (I'm not talking another 'Godzilla' or Independence Day with dragons). I am stating how this film had some serious potential that could have really delivered, minus all the shallow 'Hollywoodisms', that usually ruin ideas with intriguing possibilities. (How many 'wasted opportunities' can you name?)Imagine relentless action scenes of Apache Copters doing battle against the invading dragon hordes (which is what those misleading posters promised). And awesome scenes of cities being destroyed as world panic ensues. If written and produced with some talent and brains, ROF could have been a major hit.It would be interesting to see a seriously well made prequel about the rise of the dragons and modern civilizations' destruction.IMHO  "},{"Title":"Reign, but no brain...","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers possible! Quite possibly the worst movie with dragons. Ever! Sorry, but the whole suspension of disbelief that we live in a post-apocalyptic world where all of our technology, not to mention supersonic flight, laser guided munitions and nuclear weapons, (not to mention various biological and chemical warfare capabilities)can't overcome dragons - big, fire-breathing lizards which also happen to be slow-moving, carnivorous (anyone think of poisoning some food and leaving it out for them, kind of like rat poison?), and are all fathered by a single male dragon....This movie tries to make up for it with effects, and it tries to establish the calculating English survivalist (Bale) against the over-the-top macho, uncouth, war-mongering American (McConaughey) - not to mention a token female warrior (Scorupco). It tries to make the dragons dangerous and the situation bleak and fraught with peril, but it's just comical. A necklace of dragon teeth? A single rag-tag group of American soldiers? And then, after seeing the he-dragon take down a whole armored column and make London Broil out of it, the would-be hero (McConaughey) decides to take on the big he-dragon - WITH AN AXE!Bottom line is if you want a dragon movie, set it in a fantasy world. Set it in another time, on another planet, or in an alternate universe - but it's just too much of a stretch to imagine dragons taking over *our* earth...  "},{"Title":"Bad.","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  By the looks of the poster, I thought this was a sequel to LITTLE NICKY. Welcome to Matthew Rants. Today, REIGN OF FIRE. It is a complete wast of time, a complete wast of money, and a complete waste of celluloid. I fell asleep when watching this movie. Soooo boring. The only good part was the climax. Before I saw this film, I made a home movie in 2002 which was an assignment for Spanish, and there was a fight spoofing STAR WARS. It was called FRUSTRACION, meaning Frustration. Read my HULK comment. Stick with EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS. Flying dragons in the future. Didn' we see dragons before, DRAGONHEART (1996). That was good but REIGN OF FIRE is the perfect movie to walk away from the theatre. I'm out of here. Bye.  "}{"Title":"Silly","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What would happen if you crossed a fairy tale with an apocalyptic science fiction film? Reign of Fire is the answer. The movie begins when a kid finds a dragon inside a minefield. How come it has been alive for centuries? Maybe some evil elf brought it back to life. After a few years, civilization has been destroyed by hordes of fire breathing, flying creatures, and most of the humans who are still alive have no choice but to hide from them. It seems heat-seeking missiles don't exist in this film. Spoilers Just like Independence Day, the world has nothing to worry about; the Americans are coming to save them. All they have to do is finding the male dragon which is somewhere in England. It seems this macho dragon is the one that impregnates the other ones. Since we are talking about millions of these creatures, it is obvious that he is one busy monster.Reign of Fire starts as a very interesting film. But its intelligence level starts to decrease, and by the end of the film it is dead along with the male dragon.  "},{"Title":"Planet of the Dragons - without the dragons","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The marketing and promo hype people ought to be sued for their misleading posters and trailers. Do we ever see London being ravaged by hordes of dragons, as Apache copters battle them?  Nooooooooooo.Film begins with a very suspenseful scene where the first unearthed dragon escapes from an underground London excavation site.Do we then get to see where and how all the rest of the dragons came to be? Noooooooooooo.Do we get to see their massive attacks against modern civilization? Noooooooooo.Do we have the intriguing scene where the scientists discover that the dragons caused the extinction of the dinosaurs?  Noooooooooo.Do we see how mankind desperately fights the dragon invasion, and finally loses? Nooooooooooooo.Do we see the flaming destruction of major cities, as shown in the TIME MAG. cover  THE END?  Noooooooooo.Do we learn how some people manage to flee from the worldwide devastation, and establish their survival communes out in the country? Nooooooooooo.Do we ever find out how the remaining humans manage to survive the worldwide fallout from the radiation?  Noooooooooo.Instead, it is suddenly 20 YEARS LATER - after everything worth seeing has already happened.The most interesting part is that opening one minute montage, that only TELLS about what happened - without showing a damn thing.  Without fear of sounding like another jackass moron who thinks he's intellectually superior, wouldn't THAT have made a far more compelling film?  Wouldn't it have delivered the terrifying suspense and riveting, spectacular action that REIGN OF BURN sorely lacked?Instead, we have a dull and dreary 'post-apocolyptic' yarn with only brief, fleeting moments of any real action. We also get continuous yak-yak, that only keeps rehashing what we already know.  And, I won't be a bore, harking on all the rest of the endless script errors and plot holes that an army of dragons could soar through.As for the dragons, WHERE THE HELL WERE THEY?  Only a few uninspired minutes of actual screen time?  I realize that keeping monsters off-screen can generate suspense, but this is ridiculous.  You still have to make that tense wait worthwhile by finally delivering - which ROF never really does.All we are left with is one great, frustrating WASTED OPPORTUNITY;  which seems to now be the growing trend in Hollywood (so-called) Filmmaking. They got the money and technical abilities to actually produce films that could be, but all we constantly hear is boastful arrogance and hype that only promises.  BORING! BORING! BORING!It would be great to see a well-scripted prequel to ROF, depicting what I painstakingly outlined, but will it ever really come to be?NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!SEE YOU ON THE DARK SIDE OF THE DRAGON  "},{"Title":"A snuffed-out match.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well-produced actioner is a major disappointment.It seemed as if the writers came up with a great premise but didn't know what to do with it.  Some letdown in the storytelling may have been budget-driven -- particularly the really interesting part about how the dragons destroyed human civilization, which is brushed over here with a feeble voice-over and newspaper headline montage -- but the action builds to a climax that profoundly fails to produce excitement or satisfaction.  One arrow and BOOM!  It's over.And here's a question  How the hell did the dragons reproduce?  In the opening sequence we see the release of the male dragon from a cavern under London.  Okay, he's loose now, and presumably randy as all get out after a millennia-long sleep.  So where are all the girl dragons?  Did they just materialize out of thin air?  Hmm, I guess they left something out.The dragon effects are excellent but nothing new, really, following upon DRAGONSLAYER from over 20 years ago.   "},{"Title":"95 Million bucks goes up in Smoke","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While watching the DVD bonus features last night, I was quite surprised to hear one of the producers proudly announcing this film is The most original dragon movie ever made.Well, I'm sorry Mr Producer, but your movie is far from original.The dragons look like the dragon from Dragon Slayer, the story is simply a gender reversal of Aliens, and the settings are exactly like Dragon Heart or Battlefield Earth (or every other apocalyptic movie, just take your pick!)I never bothered looking at the movie posters so didn't fathom the fact the city burning was supposed to be London. Didn't they burn London in that awful 80's flick Life Force? And 28 Days Later? (which was better than this flick, at least in the horror department)What a complete waste of 95 million bucks! Dialogue was cliche-ridden and absymal Lock and Load, baby! said at least ten times. The characters were forgettable. It's impossible to suspend disbelief, the plot holes are so glaringly obvious even a blind monkey would spot them. I won't go into detail on these, except to outlay a few small points. So can someone please explain to meA) how the destruction of a single male dragon will bring about the extinction of the entire dragon species;B) why scenes that could've shown world-wide destruction are *conveniently omitted* and replaced with a ridiculous '20 years later';C) why the dragons receive only ten minutes worth of screen time;D) and for the rest of the movie's running time the audience is subjected to the excruciating sight of sweaty, naked man-boobs thrust in their faceCONCLUSIONNice to watch if you're female wanting to see a few pounds of partially-nude man flesh... Nice to watch if you want to see how ripped your pecs and abs will look after a couple of years workout in the gym... Nice to watch if your diet consists of pure testosterone...I rate this flick 4/10, one for each boobie!  "},{"Title":"What a scorcher!","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll be brief. I gave this film a 10 rating. Why? Because on the DVD box it gave the impression of being a post-apocalyptic dragon-battling action film. I watched it and the film was exactly that. If you don't want to be short-changed, don't expect Citizen Kane. Yes, it's very over-the-top, but it's not supposed to be a documentary. And for any doubters, watch the HALO sky-diving scene again. If that doesn't do it for you, go to the ER and ask them to check that you still have a pulse.You'll watch this and think, Why didn't I go to the movies to watch this? I repeat, 10/10 for film joy, maybe minus a couple for niggles. However, this is finally a film that doesn't have bad CGI, which adds a couple back, making it... er, 10/10. Simple math. "},{"Title":"This could be the worst movie ever made...","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Words cannot describe how horrible this movie was.  I made my wife go with me to see it and the only way to make it up to her was to go and see How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days.  And sleep on the couch for a week. I've always liked dragons and such, and I was drawn to this movie like a moth to the flame, but all I got was burned.  Although I thought it was a good story to begin with, the delivery was just plain awful.  That was 16 hard earned dollars that could have gone somewhere else!!!!! "},{"Title":"Under-imagined heap of nonsense","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting is probably slightly better than the writing in this fascinatingly bad, undercooked mishmash of Mad Max and Independence Day.The premise is silly enough  A subway construction excavation in London comes upon a hollow deep below ground. A kid (Quinn) with no safety equipment or hard hat or reason for being there, is recklessly urged by one of the construction workers to enter the hole, in which he finds and wakens a hibernating dragon. The dragon escapes, mayhem ensues and the whole globe is devastated by the 'reign of fire' in which thousands of these fire breathing beasties lays waste to everything. Fast forward a couple decades. A bunch of survivors led by now-grown-up Quinn lives in a fortified castle somewhere North of London.They basically sit around and do nothing but wait for a meager tomato (?) harvest to ripen. (For no apparent reason the tomato field is kept outside the castle fortifications). We're told that everybody is starving, which makes for a minor mutiny in the ranks (prompting a fatal tomato plucking raid,) but a bunch of cornfed, rosy-cheeked kids in blue pajamas shows no want or lack of food. Indeed, for a land allegedly devastated by these dragons there's no shortage of neither water or fuel in the castle.Enter the Americans to save the day... Matthew McConaughey chews up the scenery with an unconvincing performance as a dragon slaying Yankee tank commander who shows up with a small batallion of armored vehicles and a helicopter (!).The Americans have determined that the dragons they encounter and kill (with highly improbable aerial acrobatics) are all female, and they're looking for the male of which they surmise there's only one, presumably located in London. Quinn states that the dragon he saw as a kid must be the feller they're looking for, so after some testosterone is spent on growling and scowling and getting blown up, they go to London in the helicopter to kill the beastie and some half hearted love interest is established between the helicopter pilot and Quinn.By the way, please don't ask how a male dragon would spawn a thousand other dragons, or how by destroying him victory would be certain as the plot according to the Yanks would unfold. The egg carrying females would presumably explode in a puff of smoke. Mysteries of reptilian plumbing! This is not even the worst of the plot holes, and the whole writing is absolutely rotten and derivative - it's inconceivable how the X-files director would agree to shoot this dreck.The budget appears to have been largely spent on renting that silly helicopter. Indeed, the production company evidently had to return it in mint condition right after the shoot - they weren't even allowed or able to dirty it up a bit to even pretend the story was supposed to be set in a time where infrastructure and civilization had been absent for decades so the helicopter looks shiny brand new, at odds with the condition of all other vehicles and sets in the movie. Consider also how much fuel is consumed by a helicopter in just a minute, and this thing is flying around near constantly, for hours and days on end. The logistics of supply and maintenance for a perfectly kept helicopter in active use totally don't fit the poorly executed reality of the production, which in every way neglects to establish location or reality in any wayThere's no visual evidence on the screen that any of this takes place in a previously inhabited, civilized world. A simple corroded, bent M25 roadsign shot in post for the helicopter fly-bys would have established England. Or a burnt out pub, or anything. But there's nothing like that, just the (largely intact) castle and endless fields of ash and rubble with no discernible structures, while the laughably poorly done London set where the heart and source of all the destruction was supposed to be set in, looked mostly like a junk yard plopped into the ruins of a newly demolished factory with virtually no trace of fire damage. It's all trash, poorly executed and severely underimagined. This picture has zero redeeming values, and even the other big budget item - the CGI dragons - aren't convincing at all. They fly like something between drunken seagulls and the video f/x shuttlecraft from the equally bad 'V' TV series. The movie in no way manages to establish suspension of disbelief, which is lame because it would have cost very little to achieve it - just a little effort. "},{"Title":"Best Dragon Movie I've ever seen!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I tried so hard not to get my hopes up with this film, I'd heard this movie was in production over a year ago and couldn't wait to see this film.  Finally all my patients payed off and the film finally opened to the masses.  I must say that I got exactly what I hoped for and was very happy with the end product.All the actors involved did a fantastic job, Matthew McConaughey, Christian Bale, Izabella Scorupco, and Gerard Butler.  And Matthew looked SO cool in this film!  Izabella looked fabulous as always.  I've got to give some props to director Rob Bowman (X-Files), he has added another fabulous film to his credits.The dragons themselves looked absolutely incredible!  Fantastic job!  There were a few scenes were my mouth hit the floor because I was so impressed with how well the dragons looked.As far as story goes, I was really impressed with the idea of the film and how they explained the existence of dragons.  I had a few problems here and there and I will point them out below.That's about all I can say about the film without giving away anything, so if you haven't seen the film, do not read any further.Possible SPOILERS AHEAD!One story point that I really wish was explained is how one dragon spawned into hundreds of dragons?  But at the same time, maybe it's better that they don't attempt to explain it because then you're in the same position as the characters in the film.  They don't know how it started, all they know is that somehow a dragon got loose and multiplied until they ruled the earth.A second story point that didn't really sit well with me is that there was supposedly only 1 male dragon?  Doesn't that seem a bit too convenient?  But at the same time, the director left it completely open-ended, the characters have no idea for sure if the one they killed was the only male dragon.  And also it occurred to me that this whole story takes place over the course of only 20 years or so, so maybe that was a low enough number of years that only 1 male dragon was produced.  Just something to consider I guess.Finally, the last thing I had a problem with is, near the beginning of the film Quinn (Christian Bale) risks his neck to go out to the fields to save the people from the dragon.  Ok that's cool, but why does the dragon suddenly stop attacking them once they leave?  I heard them mention something like He doesn't care about us, he only wants the ash.  What the heck was that?  That just didn't make sense to me, so what do the dragons eat, ash or meat?  Maybe if I watch the film again it'll make more sense to me.  We'll see.Anyhow, that's about it for the problems I had with the film.  Overall, I thought it was a fantastic movie, and I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes sci-fi or fantasy movies.  Also, if you're a fan of the dragons, then do yourself a favor and scope this out.  I truly hope that you enjoy the film as much as I did and still do.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"It's pretty at first, but it's not fun or enlightening by the end.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For the first few minutes of this movie, the beauty of the cinematography fools you into thinking this is going to be a great experience. However, the movie drags, and focuses too much on the computer graphics of the dragons, spending hardly any time on character development...even of the humans. It would have been nice to hear more about who the dragons were too, but instead they were portrayed as killing machines with no intelligence or personality. What a boring enemy! Go watch Dragonheart if you want to see dragons. And if you want to see a dumb action movie, see Men in Black II which is far more entertaining. And if you actually want to see good sci-fi, I think Minority Report should still be playing in the theater next door at any multiplex showing this piece of nonsense. "},{"Title":"I enjoy SciFi, but this left much to be desired","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think Matt and Christian are great actors and carried the film well. The action sequences were entertaining, the dragon was mostly animated when the shot was still enough for you to focus on it.I really am disappointed with animated graphics because I might as well just use my imagination. I don't think I've ever seen a monster better shot in a film as in Aliens, the which is my favorite all time sci-fi horror movie ever. It's what over 30 years old and I still haven't seen a sci-fi movie with better special effects.The biggest problem I had with this movie is that the plot sucks. And underground railway crew stumbles upon a burrowing dragon in i guess a hibernating/dormant state for what must have been Eons? Considering the time between the Jurrasic period and the Cromagnon period. And why did they think it would starve to death if it had been buried without food and water for what had to been at least hundreds of thousands of years? At least in Aliens this is explained, shrimp eggs can be dormant for an ungodly amount of time until they come in contact with water. The Alien egg remains dormant until it is exposed to a living host, then it multiplied, which was a plausible explanation in the plot.The plot of this movie just ruined it for me. "}{"Title":"One big rainstorm, and you'll have to rule somewhere else","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Does Bowman just not direct well when it's features? Is it recent years? I haven't seen all he's done, but this and Elektra are fairly painful, and not all of his TNG's were(heck, some were great). So, this is dragons taken seriously. No colorful, bright settings, and no other supernatural beings involved(in general, the Fantasy genre listing for this should be taken with a grain of salt). Instead, a post-apocalyptic, dystopian near-future, with an attempt at a scientific explanation for the beasts. The CGI isn't half bad. Why, then, does it suck, do you ask? We can start with McConaughey. Frankly, he looks ridiculous, not to even mention how he sounds(dude, growling does not work for you, and permanently abstaining from it in the future is in the best interest of us all). Fitting though his appearance may seem, it's silly, even in context. The plot has rather gaping holes, ones that could have easily been worked around if the writers could have gotten over what must have been a major crush on the vastness of the main concept. Apart from those, it does have good(or less awful, at the very least). The acting ranges. I don't know if this intended to be an action flick, but it does not have enough to pass as such. As a suspense movie, it's decent. It's low on stupid popcorn moments. Dialog varies. The tone is dark, with little to no humor, and arguably relatively little Hollywood to it. I recommend this to fans of the people responsible for it, as well as anyone who immensely enjoys the notion of sci-fi thriller about flying, fire-breathing creatures. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Oh!  That prologue!","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have no major problem with the body of this film.But I have a few words of advice for budding screenwriters. Try not to lose your audience before you get stuck into your movie.I know that a film involving dragons is a fantasy. But if you are setting your story in something which, to start off with, purports to be the real world, then you need to take a bit more care than this.If you have a major underground construction site in the middle of London, then you are not going to have a schoolboy wandering around and taking the lift down to the underground construction area, even if he is the fore(wo)man's son. ESpecially without a hard hat! And then you have one of supervisors saying to one of the workers who is volunteering to enter a newly discovered cavity, You can't go in there - it's too dangerous! just minutes after said supervisor has given the schoolboy a torch and sent him into that very opening! Preposterous, and took us right out of the film at the very start. Poor, poor screen writing. "},{"Title":"Rain Reign Go Away!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire (ROF) starts innocently enough with a young boy, Quinn, visiting his mother at a London excavation site. She erroneously sets free a fire-breathing dragon that brings chaos to the modern world. Fast forward to 2020 where Quinn (Christian Bale) is fighting the battle of survival with a handful of his men. Apparently, they have devised mechanisms to warn them of the beast's arrival, but actually fighting one is quite a challenge. Enter Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey), a tough-talking American looking for shelter with Alex Jensen (Izabella Scorupco), a daredevil helicopter pilot. Zan claims to have killed quite a few dragons using a technique that not only sounds far-fetched, but also ridiculous.Quinn soon figures out that Zan and his men are completely insane. He asks them to leave and resists as Zan plans to recruit his men to finish off the flame spewing creatures. However, when Zan reveals there is just one male dragon hiding in London and producing millions of offspring, Quinn decides to join forces with him to encounter the beast one last time.ROF portrays Americans yet again as the sole saviours of the world. Although we have adored dragons in movies like Dragonheart and Dungeons & Dragons, ROF brings to the screen their might and terror. The director, who has movies such as Airborne and The X-Files to his credit fails to electrify the viewer with more drama than action, unimposing special effects and a weak storyline. "},{"Title":"Potentialless science-fiction/fantasy drivel.","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a failed attempt to mix action with science-fiction and fantasy elements.The movie is just totally ridicules. The idea alone that a bunch of ancient dragons in the modern world set in the new apocalypse and destroyed all the cities and killing basically every person on Earth, is an highly unlikely one. A movie with an unlikely concept and premise is per definition an unlikely and far from believable or likable movie. In the end the movie is just as silly as it at first sight sounds, even for a genre movie like this one.Problem is that the movie is totally lacking in good suspenseful action sequences. The fact that the movie is lacking in good action and tension absolutely has something to do with it that the movie never gets believable enough. The post-apocalypse world the movie is set in feels like it comes straight out of Waterworld or Mad Max. It also doesn't exactly make the movie original although the premise in its core is of course definitely new and original.Also the fact that the story is rather simple makes that this movie feels far from original or likable enough. They didn't attempt to make the movie any more interesting by putting more meaningful plot lines in it. There are plenty of enough characters in the movie though to do something more interesting with, story-wise.It is definitely not the actor's fault that the characters don't work out. I mean when you've a cast with Christian Bale, Matthew McConaughey, Izabella Scorupco and Gerard Butler, you can't accuse the movie of bad acting but you can accuse it of having bad characters and dialog. The Christian Bale character is supposed to be the main character but his character remains so shallow and uninteresting that you never really ever care much about him. I think that it would had been way better if the main character was an heroic one. A real action-hero, also perhaps played by a more likely action-hero star. It ironically is Matthew McConaughey in his totally over-the-top tough guy role that delivers the best performance of the movie and also puts down the most interesting character. He perhaps plays the most fun role out of his career (yet).The special effects are definitely not that bad but they way they are used are bad. Too many wide-shots and not enough close-ups. The movie could had also used way more sequences with the dragons in it and more action sequences in general. It would had made the movie at least more fun and interesting to watch. The dragons just don't feel as big destructive monsters in the movie, which also adds to the reason why the movie is lacking in good suspenseful or believable action.Further more the movie is definitely good looking with some good cinematography from Adrian Biddle and good looking sets and costumes. The directing is also quite good but it could had used more depth and creativity at times. Still I think that Rob Bowman should be given another chance, since he definitely has the potential as a director to make some good, fun but yet simple action, science-fiction and/or fantasy movies, one day.I wouldn't exactly recommend watching it, although it sure is still a watchable enough one. Maybe good enough to watch it just once...5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Functional, if forgettable.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Hot off of 'X-files' fame, Rob Bowman delivers a mostly fun summer flick, held down by a few notable flaws.On an underground excavation in London, a team uncovers the dormant remains of ravenous dragons. In short order, the dragons have taken over the world and man is on the brink of extinction. Our final hope lays in the hands of a pacifist Englishman and an aggressive American.What the film does right, it does very right. The action scenes are fast and fun, the dragons are large and threatening, the characters are grizzled and real. Where it mis-steps, however, it fall totally apart.For one thing, the direction is solid, but wholly uninspired. The script allows for some big scenes, but cuts off it's own nose by stopping short of it's high concept. And the actors are good, but the characters are mostly clichs, devoid of real depth. For a pop-corn flick it does enough right to warrant a view, but doesn't do enough to command a devoted audience. Some good, some bad, but over all an enjoyable ride.Not much else to say beyond that.7/10 "},{"Title":"Dainty Report About Gigantic Obscene Nihilistic Savagery","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear what a load of rubbish this movie was. If you like films where the plot is so threadbare its like an unsewn knitted jumper, if you have the I.Q of an amoeba, if you enjoy nice packaging more than the content this may be your favourite movie. What appears to be a trend of cashing in on such films as the charming Harry Potter and the beautifully visual Lord Of The Rings we have Reign Of Fire. Another trend seems to be studios producing films that are so enthusiastic about their latest computer technology the plot takes a back seat. Lets take an idea, concentrate on visuals, concentrate on technology, concentrate on opium for the masses, concentrate on marketing then , oh, lets get a plot together. Wrong formula, have a story first use wizardry to enhance the story after all who in their right mind would start to build a house starting with the windows or colour scheme- shouldn't you have foundations first ? I am sure the writers of this film used a coffee break to churn out this gruelling cinematic abortion. The director has used some 'pleasent' touches, the contemporary medievalistic feel is amicably achieved. There is also a moment of exciting 'chased through the air by pursuing monsters' direction which was alright, well it stopped me admiring my friends wallpaper and return to concentrating on the film (which was pretty easy to do as we had all worked out the flabby plot, beginning,middle and end within the first 10-15 minutes). Why the hell they didn't stick with the monsters hatching, monsters attack,mankind battles dragons in key cities around the world-theme,is completely beyond me. Perhaps the studio felt this was too complex for the intended audience, which must have been either children or morons. The characters themselves were suitably tepid , Chrisitian Bale (did he wear false teeth in this movie ?)done his testosterone filled hero bit (yawn!) The Dragons incinerating and munching through the last straggling survivors were hilarious, I found it amusing, not because I am especially warped but because I couldn't care less. The dragons themselves were naughty and the CGI used looked, well, um , like Computer Generated Imagery ! This is dire vacuousness at its worst.If we are to believe that mankind used all of his aggressiveness against these critters including nuclear bombs then surely they wouldn't be able to slay and save in 2020 a.d. Oh forgot, perhaps humanity at this stage are so hard core they are immune to radiation sickness, cancers and other genetic nasties caused by nuclear war. At least the Reign Of Fire creators could of tried to make at least some elements of this crud tangible. This however is based on one persons view but I would strongly advised to those who have not sat through this chore, if you like to save time and money - go the pub, go on the net for 100 minutes , go and see long lost relatives anything you like but try to refrain from viewing this abomination. After all its nothing new and to be honest there will no doubt be a few more turkeys just waiting to be rushed, oops made i mean, to hit a local mainstream cinema near you.I bet from reading the summary you were expecting an appraisal, and if you are a fan of the film you may feel let down and cheated with the end result -WELL SO WAS I WITH THIS!  "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Reign of Fire stars Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey as two humans in the near future who have a major infestation on their hands. They play the role of the exterminators, so to speak. Fire features an original plot, which is at least one good aspect of the film. It also has surprisingly good actors and great special effects. The problem lies with director Rob Bowman. His shaky camera work and light-speed cuts just don't work. It figures that the one time a film has a good story, good actors and good special effects, that the director spoils everything. With any other film, the director's great but the cast and/or special effects are horrible. Why is it that Hollywood very rarely coughs up a great film? Especially when talking about action/sci-fi. Terminator and Predator are great examples of action/sci-fi films. Take a good director, have a low budget, throw in a truly horrifying creature and an excellent macho-action guy and you've got yourself a masterpiece. Films like Reign of Fire would have been good if they had stuck with the fundamental elements of great action films. 2.5/5 stars. Reign of Fire isn't horrible, but I wouldn't strongly recommend it by any means. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not sure why most people (it seems) are panning this movie.  The only thing low budget I can see about it is that it doesn't stoop tons of slow motion sequences (which alot of bad directors resort to in order to cover up their lack of skills as a director - apparently the equivalent of reverb for a bad singer).The dragons look GREAT.  Usually there are at least times where I can see the computer animation - in this movie I couldn't detect ANY animation (of course they were all computer animated).The acting is all wonderful as well (except I wish the main actress hadn't insisted on having full makeup on the whole time).The plot is also very good.  A very interesting take on dragons, and all of it makes sense and is consistent. I would give it an 8 normally, but to counteract all the bad reviews its gotten on this site I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"Some glimpses of acting and snatches of effects, but not much meat on the bones","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** It is true that this script was very carelessly written, and contains so many blatant self contradictions, massive plot holes and obvious non sequiturs that you could create an entertaining reality game show called The Mistakes of RoF. But at least you may miss the more subtle of these errors if you get well and truly lagered up before attending.It is also true that the CGI - which you might expect to be spectacular in a twenty-first century movie about dragons - is mediocre, being often blurred, mist-shrouded, badly proportioned, moving unnaturally, and rarely showing live dragons in the same scene as men, animals etc. Once again, the beer goggles should sort that out.It is also true that despite some reasonable and occasionally good bits of acting from Christopher Bale and Matthew McConaughey, most of the characters are so two dimensional you have to read the credits to discover that they had names. This is not a problem for a beer-and-pretzels movie.Despite all the above, my problem is that this film had the feel of a very cheap, hastily made production which is hoping to make enough money to fund the (rather blatantly telegraphed) prequel and sequel. At 100 min it is quite a short movie which literally skips most of its suggested beginning with a quick voiceover, and then wraps up with numerous problems unanswered! (An example of the cheapness is that the voiceover near the start is accompanied by shots of prop _magazine covers_, without moving pictures or even close-up stills.)There just isn't that much that _happens_ in this movie. There is a brief intro, the somewhat odd attack on the veggie patch, the killing of the veggie patch dragon with an over-elaborate scheme that is never re-used, the attack on the castle shown mostly from a distance, and the climax. Each of these major 'Acts' is interspersed with some human interaction, but except for the arrival of the American militiamen and a fist fight these are brief dialogues with perhaps one line of stage direction. Trying not to give too much away, the total number of dragons slain in this movie is small, and all dragons successfully slain are killed instantaneously when struck by fairly small, low tech weapons.For example, for the climactic battle they are instantaneously transported to dragon central, briefly watch a bit of draconian disunity in the distance, scurry along a short tunnel Quinn just happens to know about, and voila, they are in the (rather uninteresting) lair of the beast. Couldn't they have at least one setback along the way? How about a few charred bones in the lair? Since the train carriage was presumably dropped there by the dragon, how about a few more signs of things he's snacked on in his lair, like a torn open double-decker bus, another dragon, or a colliery barge (mmm, tasty ash!) ?All I can say is that in the sequel, I hope they have to work a bit harder to get their dragon!  "},{"Title":"This is hard one to describe","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm on holidays and went to this movie yesterday with Dan, and my wife.  Dan said this movie is a cross between The Road Warrior, and Dragon Slayer; you could also add Aliens and Life Force as influential movies from the 80's.  This story is very original, and not a copy of the others.  Cutting to the chase, and not ruining the film for the first time viewer, I found the film hard to grasp.  Maybe, it's the mood I was in, or the film dragging at the beginning.  A well made film, I can not pick it apart; it could be the concept of Dragons flying around that diminishes my view.  In the end rent this one. 6/10  "}{"Title":"Oh my, why did I buy it ??","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Give me a break. What kind of a super stupid story. Why don't they show more about the beginning of the spread of the dragons? Because there is no logic in it whatsoever. There are so many goofs and inconsistencies in this, it is really beyond anything I would expect even Hollywood dared feed to its clients... Don't talk of the acting. This said, a little more detail (sorry, but there are some spoilers here, so if you want your disappointment and disgust at the story or the acting to be really original, don't keep reading).Even the kind of governments we have to-day would be able to figure out quite quickly what our American (!!) hero towards the middle tells the poor Englishmen about the breeding habits. And, really, with those habits, a worldwide spread would have been out of question whatsoever in the first place, and even a 5 year old understands that in one second after having heard the catch. ThenSpoiler ahead! How come, after the beasts are defeated(who would have guessed?) , all of a sudden people have food a-plenty, and animals are around, and birds, when the whole ecosystem was supposed to have been destroyed? If destruction were that bad, it would have taken at least 100000 years for nature to recover, and humans would have starved long before the dragons. The men have this kind of super-male deep-voice grumble on, I guess it should let them look more manly. The women are reduced to screaming, weeping and running, with one exception. No really. Yuck. The best thing are the dragons, and in my opinion, they could have left out the humans altogether from this movie. The worst of all logic goofs in the story is the weapons. Spoiler ahead! First we're told over and over how all the high-tech weapons, including nukes, didn't help, and then our super heroes shoot a dragon with a combination of medieval crossbow and Chinese firecracker. Now what? If this ridiculous thing can bring down the beast, why should a guided anti-tank or anti-aircraft missile with 100 times the explosive power, flying at the speed of sound, and guided by the most advanced visual guiding systems, with a penetration power more than 200 fold from this primitive contraption, fail at the same job??? Really, give me a break. Look at the beast, and you see at least 4 points of entry that will infallibly lead to its death if you send a missile in. Especially after seeing with what they shoot it in the movie. "},{"Title":"Great until the Americans arrive","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, this is not some American bashing review, but this film was getting really interesting right up until the Americans arrive and turn it into a cheesy action film. It starts out in Northern England after dragons have destroyed the world. A small group of people are trying to survive in this new world. The story follows them as they hunt for food, teach the children how to survive and hide from the dragons. Then Matthew Mcconaughey (sp?) shows up with a group of American dragon slayers and anything interesting about the film ends. His character is 1 dimensional (at best) and his adventures are boring and predictable. Eventually Bale, Matthew and a female companion (an American with a Russian accent?) go to London with a bunch of dragon slayers who all die in about 30 seconds. The 3 of them then kill the mother dragon and McConoughey (sp?) sacrifices himself in a bit of glory before Bale kills the dragon. It reminds me of the Matrix, where it was really interesting until Keanu Reeves says we need guns and the whole trilogy never recovered. In this film the line is, Oh no, Americans. I give the first part of the film an * and the last part a 3 (so I wind up with 6). "},{"Title":"Piece of crap. Dragon heart was better-  I'm telling you ,dragon heart!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There hasn't been a good movie about dragons in a long long time. Come to think of it, there hasn't been a good movie about dragons , period. Dragonslayer came close, but was let down by a bland script. When i saw the poster for reign of fire, i was thrilled ! The images of dragons ravaging London got me in the mood for some post millenail dragon action ! All my enthusiasm died when i saw the film however. It was bloody awful !! The story was uninteresting, the whole post appocalyptic society thing was done far better in mad max and even water world and the acting , particularly by mconahaugey was beyond hammy.The worst thing about it though was the dragons themselves. Yeah the dragons were impressive looking, but thats only for the couple of seconds that you saw them for . Where the hell were they ? I paid for dragons being killed and killing things and i don't feel like reign of fire delivered on that front. Terrible . "},{"Title":"Lumbering, Tragic","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Only the masterful performance of McConaughy saved this flick for me. I even bought the DVD the first day it came out, but never even opened it, and 2yrs later, sold it to a used DVD program at the local electronics/console games store. What do I think went wrong here? A lot of things Van Zandt and his troops were part of a defunct US Texas National Guards unit sent to help the Brits--this was cool given the alliance between us and them. But, the narration tells us MOST of the army units even foreign, went warlord or raider--attacking colonies like the protagonist's, for food, fuel, women. How did Van Zandt's unit survive against overwhelming odds from warlords with AFV's (armored fighting vehicles)? Spoiler ahead! Van Zandt leads the convoy down a road--sitting duck fashion when he has tanks and all terrain armored vehicles-- he could have driven through the ruins and through or over most of the low height rubble, protecting his people Instead he lets them all die--stupidly!The dragons eat ashes? Huh? no exposition as to how or why they eat ashes--what energizes them enough to fly and fight, etc.? Are the ashes magic? The plot and narration goes into a bit of exposition about the biology of the dragons but alas--never tells us if they are organic animals or magical creatures This may seem a bit nit picky, but uh duh--if they live on ashes, why do they attack corn fields, human occupied buildings etc? Why not just burn trees, grass, ruins/rubble, etc.?The Americans have helicopters, assuming these have radar and as shown, missiles--uh, duh, ever hear of fire and forget missiles-get a target lock or laser lock, and let 'em fly! they have no reason to drop attracting parachutists or get within even a mile of the dragons!Of course if the script was sensible, then we'd be deprived of more sfx and spectacular action and gratuitous deaths.Van Zandt chooses a real dumb way to go out in glory, Uh I wouldn't't, and I've faced down 6 gang bangers at one time, and held my ground against a mob leg breaker, without resorting to the stupid way outAs has been written in other comments--where does the fuel come from? Uh Duh, the dragons eat ashes or fire--wouldn't't they instinctively know gasoline or jet fuel is a flammable and there fore a ready made meal? They'd have exhausted every source of fuel(liquids)(petroleum) around years ago!Well, outside of the hot pilot girl, and(my first time ever seeing McConaughy in a film)McConaughy's cool Dragon Slayer this movie stunk on ice in the antarctic! "},{"Title":"it's hard to mess up dragon movies, but this one excels at that","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A young kid finds and awakens a dragon who turns the world into disarray, cut to the future, now a grown up kid (Christan Bale) is protecting his community from dragon attacks when an American shows up with plans to defeat the beasts. This film could've been good, but that all went out the window when Director Rob Bowman took the helm, the man who gave as travesties like Airbourne and Elektra, but those are tales for a different day, my friend. He also helmed the X-files movie, but that's a franchise that at that time was VERY hard to mess up. As it turned out, this film is fluff, not even entertaining fluff. I was disappointed in Bale and the film as a whole.My Grade D DVD Extras 3 Featurettes (Breathing Life into Terror, If You can't take the heat, and Conversations with Rob Bowman); Theatrical Trailer; Trailers for The Count of Monte Cristo, and Bad Company; Video Game trailers for Reign of Fire and Kingdom Hearts "},{"Title":"Certainly not a high-flier","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Small SPOILERS ...I can't really explain why, but I always stood rather distrustful towards this movie. Although I'm very interested in the topics it handles about ( Dragons...apocalypse...FIRE ! ), I've waited a long time before I actually saw it. I've seen it now and it looks like I was right, Reign of Fire didn't satisfy me at all. First of all there's the ( always growing bigger) problem of the CGI. I mean, do they really have to do everything with a computer nowadays ? I realize this is to satisfy the younger and more enthousiastic crowd, but I so much preferred the dragons ( and other monsters ) in those lovely B-movies from the 50's.  Sure you saw they were hand-made but hey, these flying puppies in Reign of Fire don't look very realistic neither, do they ? At least the old movies had much more love in them...I must be getting very old.But, if this would have been the only negative element about it, I wouldn't consider it a total disaster yet. Too bad there ARE more problems with it. The script totters in every possible way and the climax ??? Well, I'm sorry to say this if you were stunned by seeing the ending but you can actually see it coming from a mile away... As soon as the boy discovers the first dragon in the mine, a bell should start ringing. Reign of Fire suffers from an enormous lack of originality. It all may look very impressive but we've all seen it multiple times before...and better. The only real positive comments I've got are for Christian Bale. No, not Matthew McConaughey because I've seen him acting a lot better already ( in the recent Frailty for example ). McConaughey is an average actor, his career is a mixed combination of good and bad roles so far...This is most certainly a bad one. Christian Bale on the other hand rarely gives away a bad performance. He really broke through with American Psycho but also his earlier films are surely worth a look. If you consider him handsome, cute or whatever ( or maybe you just think he's a great actor ) I recommend to see this movie...only for him. If not  avoid it.  My humble opinion on Reign of Fire  3/10 "},{"Title":"weakens as it nears the finale","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the distant future, the Earth has been left in ruins and humans have relinquished their position as the dominant species to a deadly breed of giant, fire-breathing dragons. Skilled and resourceful English builder Bale, frenetic American soldier McConaughey, and a small group of survivors team up to try and put an end to the species once and for all. Strongly acted, well-directed, and at times exciting this fantasy/action movie holds your interest, but it eventually loses momentum and resorts to a conventional finale. McConaughey gives an energetic and forceful performance, though his character's motives and actions are never fully understood. ** "},{"Title":"A movie in dire need of a more climatic ending.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was rather cool for the most part, but it is of course not without its faults otherwise I would have given it a better score. The cast is great as Christian and Matthew do great in their respective roles. The story, apparently dragons were the cause of all the mass extinctions of our past and now they are here to burn away our future. The world gets wiped out quickly save for some plucky survivors who live in underground areas. They are trying to raise crops and such and avoid the dragons for they have no shot at stopping their onslaught. That is until this group lead by Matthew comes and tells them of their plan to stop the dragons once and for all. They even fly helicopters, unafraid of the dragons that fly the skies. They have managed to track down the source beast and its hiding grounds, seems like all the dragons are females save for one and it is the guy dragon that must be killed. This movie plays out pretty good for the most part, you see lots of dragons, but quite frankly they all look exactly the same. Even the male dragon looks like all the others, only bigger. They need more variations or something. Also, a more thrilling ending could have been used as it is not as good of an action scene as I was anticipating for the end fight. Still though, it was pretty cool and at least you saw the dragons a lot, unlike an earlier dragon movie DragonHeart. "},{"Title":"reign in the blind ages...","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is another stupid movie. With all the technologies and modern weapons, the humanity is beaten up by another specie, which has thousands of females, but only one male. Neat story, no ? NO! The action is weak, the story is weak, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Gerard Butler best thing about it","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"37 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I read nearly half of the users' comments (there are 400+ in all)on Reign of Fire and saw only two references to Gerard Butler one simply mentioning he's in it and the other slamming him in general. I disagree and am surprised at the lack of regard for his being in the movie. His is arguably the most sympathetic character in the movie and likely the only one with any sense of humor. I purposely see every movie Gerard Butler is in -- it is what draws me to the theater for certain films, such as this one. I probably would watch him reading the phone book! That being said, I enjoyed this movie. Yes, it can be seen that they cut corners in terms of the shortage of special effects scenes and the poster WAS misleading. But I think people are jaded these days. After seeing so many movies with explosive effects, people aren't satisfied with anything less. I also enjoyed Timeline, in which Gerard also stars. That movie, too, was widely slammed, but I liked it. I like fantasy films with a bit of romance. I like effects, too, but I don't think that's all there is to it. I can't wait to see Gerard in Beowulf and Grendel but I'm sure people are already sharpening their knives to crucify him and that movie, too! "}{"Title":"Could have been so much more","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I know it's just a movie, but it annoys me that although this is set a couple of decades after the destruction of civilization the Americans were still able to fuel their tank, jeeps, motorbikes and a helicopter (all of which never seemed to need refueling), and all the while looking like they just stepped out of a military base with ammo and fresh gear. At the start of the film, at least the mock fortification looked like it belonged!Few other things, loads of under kids young enough to be born well after the nuclear events, yet we've got an incredible shortage of food.. hmm? At least it was OK enough to see through to the end. Shame the whole world wasn't able to figure out there was only one male dragon until a couple of decades after! "},{"Title":"Henry and Kristl sweat during the Reign of Fire(2002)","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So this movie is about dragons destroying the world.. Kristl sat back on the couch resting her heavy booted feet on the old worn surface of a table. Something Henry felt as being very unladylike. He wasn't quite sure if he ought to mention it, but from Kristl's eighties punk look, with her short hair, sturdy black leather jacket, worn jeans and high laced army boots, he gathered that she was not going to give a toss.That alone should be good for big haul. Who doesn't want to see dragons? Henry said.Well, people will be disappointed no doubt. It is not like there are that many to see. Dragons is plural.. I can't recall to have seen more than one up close in any one scene. If they had not killed one to show there are two, it might as well have been only one dragon. The dragon.But when you get to see one it looks really cool. I know people moan at cgi, but I liked the way they did those dragons.One dragon. They just made one dragon and then reused it. The big male one they kill at the end looked just like the female one they killed earlier in the movie. They did not even bother to give it another color. Just because it was male.. or something. Or different. Little lacking details. Kristl added.Anyway there were dragons, cool ferocious dragons. Fire Breathing dragons.Exploding dragons..And for the rest it awash just hogwash..the story was just laughable. Somewhere under London sleep dragons and when they are woken they start destroying life as we know it, just like they had done before with the dinosaurs for instance, so the over-voice tells u.. I wonder how people found out about it, did the dragons tell them?I liked the scenes where they try to kill one by throwing a net on them and use people as bait. Really cool. Yeah, that was a cool scene. Cool scenes are far in between though, mostly you see dirty scruffy men in brown-gray rags sneering at each other. They never get along or develop in any sense. Many movies have a group of reluctant people who have to team up to solve a problem. They eventually start to respect each other even if they don't agree. This movie has no such development. Nothing changes in the persons themselves.And eventually everyone dies..Haha. Henry laughed, almost everyone, that is. Only the guy and the girl remain.And not one joke or witty line. I mean a movie like that should have some relief. Some moments of humor to break the continuous gloom that pervades, but I can't remember one intentional joke or witty remark, Not even sarcasm. Just two guys bickering for the sake of bickering. Yeah. They could have added some jokes in it.I also can't say there was exceptionally or interesting scenes in this one. The only memorable screen moment is when the American dragon hunter jumped from that two with an axe to attack the main dragon.So basically a grim humorless movie that has nothing working for it but some cgi dragons that some might like and others might hate. Especially considering the lack of dragon movies overallThat is the gist of it. Kristl nodded.Which reminds me. Henry said and he reached down to open a box, I wanted to celebrate the movie with this. He took out a few bottles. Most were of different sized bottles made out of brownish glass, except one complete white one, but covered wide variance of of colorful labels. Dragon stout, Double Dragon, Red Dragon, St. George & the dragon, Dragon Troll Ale, Dragon's milk, Gulden Draak, Dragon Year, Copper Dragon and finally Green Dragon. A random selection of beers. Henry smiled broadly..Oh nice.. though, come to think of it, are we supposed to drink them? You know I sort of stopped drinking alcohol.. well unless there is a special occasion, that is.Isn't this a special occasion?Well, it would have been if we had drunk them during the movie, but since it is done and I don't want to see it again the moment seems to have passed.Ah.. but I have thought of that.. We can go and see the hobbit.. that has a large dragon in it.. at the end, if we ever get to the end.So we reserve them for that momentAh.And if you by then still don't drink alcohol I make sure the beer is duly replaced with water&#x85; or any other non alcoholic beverage you can think of.. He scratched his head.You are my hero. Kristl said.A real dragon hunter. Henry said.A dragon beer hunter you mean.That to. "},{"Title":"When death is better than survival...","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rob Bowman's Reign of Fire is an assault on several of the humans senses, but one of its most offensive qualities is it's often tedious and frequently boring for an action movie. Even action movies I'm not a fan of, boring is not the word I'd use to describe them. With this film, it's a strange scenario; I guess I have a low tolerance for films that feature gigantic, fire-breathing dragons and loud, listless characters shouting in thick, often incomprehensible British accents.The story begins with a young boy named Quinn, who is on-location, admiring the constructing of the London Underground where his mother works. During the construction, the workers awake a gigantic dragon from its hibernation and pay the lethal price of getting incinerated. Quinn and his mother try to escape via loading elevator, but the dragon kills the mother when he flies out of the building, leaving poor Quinn alone. Now it's ten years later, in 2020, and Quinn (Christian Bale) is leading a group of people, who have been forced to leave everything and barricade themselves inside a large castle in Northumberland. London, and possibly the rest of the world, has become taken over and destroyed by large dragons. Quinn has his survivalist group under control, until Americans Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) and Alex Jensen (Izabella Scorupco) arrive to fight back the beasts, leaving him at a quandary. All of his men and women want the same goal, but they want to achieve it through ways of power, leadership, and integrity.This little detail alone certainly could've posed a great power struggle between the men, but the film is so repetitive, bleak, tonally obnoxious, and uninteresting that one doesn't even seem to mind the lame direction the film takes. This is what you define as lazy disaster filmmaking; mix two separate time periods, throw in robotic characters, neglect all parts of humanity and depth, and market it to those who want to see dragons and nothing more.Not to mention, isn't it odd how Hollywood can find the most ridiculous things to exploit but there has been a stunning absence of dragon films in the last few decades? Reign of Fire gets points for having a few unique and somewhat interesting instances like where the fire-breathing behemoth leader (?) of them all swoops down and breathes a fire big enough to burn an entire city. Scenes like that have the tendency to leave a viewer with optimism for the remainder of the film, until they realize that it has nothing much else to offer other than repetitive action sequences, a large amount of incomprehensible shouting, and redundant character quibbles on top of convenient melodrama.If there's one saving grace to this film, other than having one solid scene every thirty minutes, it's the music, done by Edward Shearmur, who prior to this scored the wonderful Kevin Spacey drama K-PAX, beautifully and subtly. Sure, these are two different films, but Shearmur puts in a surprising amount of tension and craft behind the music in this film. When what's on screen fails me, I then employ secondary senses to pick up what ordinary viewers might not even think twice about.Reign of Fire features two early performances of Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey, both men who started out their careers a tad rocky, yet went on to find different little performances they could work extremely well in. Living in the present, it's sad that it was just around eleven years ago they were giving ho-hum performances in a forgettable actioneer when they would both become recognized for their achievements in difficult, but rewarding roles. The circle of Hollywood life works in odd ways.Starring Christian Bale, Matthew McConaughey, Izabella Scorupco, and Gerard Butler. Directed by Rob Bowman. "},{"Title":"Brain of fire","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christian Bale fights dragons, does a Darth Vadrer impression, looks after children, and fails to really keep you interested in Reign Of Fire. In a future world dominated by dragons, Quinn (Bale) leads the resistance located in Northumberland having seen his mother attacked and killed by a dragon as a child.Apart from some decent action and fantastic effects there's nothing much to like about Reign Of Fire as the story seems to flop after a decent opening 10 minutes in which a young Quinn goes to visit his construction worker mother working in the tube tunnels, where Quinn first feasts his eyes on a dragon as 2 of his mothers co workers are incinerated instantly with Quinn barely escaping and his mother unfortunate enough to be killed saving him. From there the only highs are a sky diving attack to try and catch a dragon and bale trying to outrun a flying dragon on a horse.After that the movie just loses steam and seems to run out of ideas as Denton (Matthew McConaughey) an American dragon hunter arrives to temp Quinn and Quinns men into helping him kill the male dragon located in London, for Quinn to decline then later on accept.Finally the final battle just seems to not know whether it wants to be clever or brilliant action, in the end its neither and at times the actors don't really look bothered. After having promising start and a decent idea to begin with this movie is awful but in the end this is a reign you cant wait to end.Best Quote DentonEver see a male? QuinnWhen I'm running for my life I generally don't look back at the plumbing.If you enjoyed watching...Dungeons & Dragons, Godzilla (1998)...You'll enjoy watching Reign Of Fire "},{"Title":"The only review u need of this film !!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" it probably deserves more than 8 for the type of film this is, dragon films are always a risky genre this though is most likely the cream of the cropI'm going to call BULLSHIT on some comments on here, if you just want to read my view of the film itself skip to the lineso you have chosen to watch a dragon movie, anyone who has interest in this film is not going to expect realism, before you go ranting about fuel, children being to fat for a dieing human race why don't we say once again this is a film about dragons!!how do you write a dragon film and make it 100% realistic, you don't! you cant!these same 'critics' top films list probably include such ultra realistic films such as the dark knight(because everyone wants to be a bat) star wars(nu-ff said) or lord of the rings(i saw an all mighty ring the other day, was very nice) that or they like non fantasy films about love crime or drama, which are usually just as unrealisticin fact there is probably no such thing as a realistic film, why?! because thats dull, people want happy endings(life is not!!) people want action, aliens, silly romance between a runaway tramp and a well off princessget out more and stop being dull!---------------------------------------------------------------------the typical American vs the careful hero was done very well by both actors but i agree that a little more was needed from the others, though i was gutted at a certain death! the emotion carried out during that part was very real and you could feel the pain of the characters welldragons of course could not look any better though i am times the male dragon does look bigger than at other times, bit odd! there are some scenes where the dragon flaps its wings to hover and the movement is so detailed it really is a sight to see i'll agree with what someone else said that the 2nd half is awesome, the 1st half is a little slow but builds up the characters wella little more was needed in London to make it recognisable but other than that scenery was very dark and ash like as u would expectas great as the last scene was a better way to kill the dragon was needed than a bomb bow, bit cheesy and the bow finish has been done to death in filmsso yeah thats it!!!!!! if your watching this hoping to see how they could generate electricity or make fuel than id A. watch something with no imagination B. go die C. go watch the new star trek and have a hard on over working out how the transporter could ever workBUT IF YOU CAME TO SEE DRAGONS BREATH FIRE (OMG AS IF o SHOCK HORROR)THEN THIS IS IT!!! THE PINNACLE OF DRAGON FILMS ) "},{"Title":"Endore did it first and better","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone who sees this film and thinks it is of value needs to read the short story Day of the Dragon by Guy Endore from the late 1930s. His story was much more intriguing and would have made a better film. The writers obviously read the short story, and took the basic idea of mankind relegated to hiding from a world filled with rejuvenated dragons, but they give no credit to Endore of his story. The film is too dark, too manufactured moody, and much too gabby for no real purpose. I only give it a 4 because of the special effects. Read the story (it is available online or in the Hitchcock Monster Museum collection), and imagine what could have been. "},{"Title":"Dimwits And Dragons","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When a movie attempts to project itself as a 'just imagine if...' fantasy; it needs to be right on the money in 'real-world' detail in order to engage us, and not begin with a scenario that is even more preposterous than the underlying idea.I am talking here about a young child being allowed to wander around at will on a huge civil-engineering construction site. IT SIMPLY WOULD NOT HAPPEN. The construction industry has the highest accident and fatality rate of all industries in the western world and would no more allow a child on-site than - a dragon. In London, England; where this is supposed to have taken place, there is a clearly advertised rule 'No Hat, No Boots, No Job.' It refers to safety clothing, and the sack if you're caught without them. The same also applies to reflective tunics. And yet this kid is not only free to roam in flagrant breach of this fundamental safety rule; he is allowed into the deep excavation unsupervised on the lift. Gimme a break. Those involved would be sacked on the spot. And all this, apparently at the discretion of his own mother. She is down the hole, working as some kind of supervisory bod in the 'power-female' role that has now become mandatory in today's movies no matter how daft the circumstances (anyone ever seen a woman on a construction site? Does Jimmy Choo make a range of stiletto safety boots?). Further; his evident familiarity with the site and its personnel make it clear that such forays are regular and considered normal. This is so ridiculous, and demonstrates such a complete lack of the most basic research of the real world that - for me - the movie as good as ends here. It is already too fantastic to bother watching.Still; one perseveres. After a great gout of fire and the shadowy outline of one dragon, the world comes to an abrupt end. We see nothing of it. An apparent airborne battle between beasties and helicopter gunships over the skies of London, alluded to in the publicity shots never arises. It's just a cheap, shabby con. Instead, we enter a post-apocalyptic world of ash and spoil-heaps, with belligerent groups of loud-mouthed survivors and all of the weary-worn predictable clichs entailed. About the only thing missing is Arthur Scargill.It's boring. It's dull. Situations have reversed; now dragons rule the surface world and humans live in caverns. Lighting is so gloomy that it might as well have been filmed in black & white. The dragons apparently eat ash, but what do humans eat? A small garden of what look like tomatoes surely won't go very far. Where's the protein coming from? Once again we're left guessing because the director didn't stop to think. The young boy (his irresponsible mum got killed in the excavation) is now a grown man and leader, in an idea clearly ripped-off from the 'Terminator' franchise.The Brits bicker and argue until Yanks come to the rescue. Hooray for the Yanks. The Yanks have tanks, but as usual they prove useless. These dragons are worse than the Taliban. Apparently, our transatlantic heroes use helicopters, sky-divers and nets to catch the beasties in-flight, in an idea so utterly absurd that it could only have been included for the sake of a bit of cheap aerial drama. They've also discovered that almost every dragon is female (no surprises there then), and that just one male services them all. How did they discover this? Don't ask. How did they come to be so numerous so quickly in the first place then? Again; don't ask. But bump-off this flying Lothario and humanity is home and dry. The species will just die out.Well, not necessarily so. A species that evolved with just one seed-carrier would never have survived without an evolutionary contingency. And many reptiles have one. They can change gender. By simply altering the temperature at which eggs incubate, the sex of hatchlings can be manipulated - a phenomenon made manifest in 'Jurassic Park'. So think again.However, in this movie it works, and that's that. There's so much to criticise and so little to praise. Let me at least say that I like the dragons. As a piece of CGI hokum they are very nicely realised, both in the air and on the ground. It looks as if they're were the big money got spent. Beyond them, you rummage through the rubble. This movie could have been a corker. We might have at least glimpsed the reptilian take-over. Jumbo-jets attacked in flight, cruise-liners beset at sea, the great cities of the world under siege. But that would beg the question - how did we lose? With such extensive arsenals of smart weaponry throughout the world, and such huge, comparatively slow-moving targets; it should have been a turkey-shoot. Apart from that, lighting is poor, acting is wooden, and the script is banal. Editing is also a little haphazard. 'Reign Of Fire' is what happens when you put an idea with great cinematic potential into the hands of a shallow dimwit who focuses on effects and predictable drama rather than story and research. Perhaps he was hampered by a limited budget. But not half so much as by a lack of common sense.Very disappointing. Worth a watch, but not a purchase. "},{"Title":"'Envy the country that has heroes, huh? I say pity the country that needs them.'","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watched this movie back when it was released and today I caught it again on TV and I must say that this one is underrated in eyes of most viewers. The whole story could be about man fighting dragons, if you want a short description. But if you look deeper you've got so much more. There is story that actually holds water (with today premises when we destroy world we live in - in the beginning Quinn says that the world leaders tried to kill dragons but only the made more destruction;instead of dragons today there is people (states) fighting people (states)), there is some great acting coming from McConaughey, Bale and Butler (before he went to gym) and capable direction of Bowman coupled with very good special effects. People who dislike this movie maybe can't pass over dragons, but some people can't pass over Hobbits so what? Just unlock your imagination and enjoy cause this movie is not silly and it's not like plenty of other movies that offers you only fun without using your brain (of course you can always turn your brain off). For example think about what Van Zan said 'Envy the country that has heroes, huh? I say pity the country that needs them.' "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've heard many bad reviews on this movie so I did not see it in theaters. As years passed, I found a copy of it at my local library and borrowed it. I will say that Reign of Fire does not have a realistic story or is anything Oscar worthy. And even though it is fake, it could have had more plot like Van Helsing, but I found myself enjoying this movie.For a movie that is six years old, I found the CGI to very impressive. The explosions and fire attacks from the dragons look realistic, and the dragons themselves have a mystical and frightening look.I was never a fan of Mathew McConaughey but he surprisingly was good as the bad ass dragon slayer/militia leader Van Zan. I liked his character. Christian Bale (as always) makes another good protagonist in the film. The rest of the supporting cast added some diligence to their roles. Overall I liked this movie. I wouldn't buy it, but I wouldn't mine seeing a second or third time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie for a Rainy Day","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love fantasy movies, Matthew McConaughey, and dragons. So this movie captures everything all in one! And the actions was great. Makeup was fantastic...Mr McConaughey didn't even look like himself. It too us a long time to figure out who he was. Realistic,exciting and full of drama. Although I've never seen a real life dragon (lol) these were the coolest looking dragons I've ever seen in a movie. The concept to this movie is plausible (hey..it could happen). I like how they combined modern technology with the medieval elements. Movie had me on the edge of my seat a couple of times, cheering for the dragons and for the humans. I loved it! Didn't even know the name of it and had to search it out so I could see it again. "}{"Title":"McConaughey is almost enough","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Matthew McConaughey is very good in this idiotic version of The Road Warrior, The Postman, Waterworld et al. The post-apocalyptic remnants of middle-class society are holed up in a castle, menaced this time not by Mohawked bikers but by fire-breathing dragons, which are pretty scary but have too little screen time. In fact they skimped on all the good stuff in this one.After a distressingly dragon-light prologue, we spend redundant idle minutes establishing the hierarchy of the dwindling band of nice people, before Mad Max (a bullet-headed, triple-triceped McConaughey) drives his tank into the courtyard and incites a new world order. The part of Mad Max's faithful dog is played here by Izabella Scorupco, who sounds like a joke and is a ravishing blonde Kentucky National Guard pilot with a middle-European accent.The philosophy of the film is that some guys are dragonslayers, and some guys are dragonslayers who don't know it yet. McConaughey is charged with persuading us that he has jumped out of helicopters and stabbed dragons to death, and he is one of the only actors alive whom we would believe when he says such a thing. We see early on that Christian Bale has an underwear-model's build, very butch, but he is forced to wear a sweater in all his scenes with McConaughey, putting the Brit at an unfair disadvantage. Bale's work in American Psycho and The Machinist is as good as anybody's giving these days, and for every Sahara or Failure to Launch, the shirt-challenged McConaughey delivers a Lone Star or a Frailty or a Dazed and Confused. But the director really fails here, because what should be a series of great scenes between two intense young actors - a buddy movie at least - turns into a dumbshow where the best elements are sent off alone to do battle with computer generated monsters (too few too late) instead of interacting and giving us some drama.And for the last time - refugees are unphotogenic, therefore uncinematic. Stop with the post-apocalyptic-culture-in-need-of-a-superman movies. It's a weak premise anyway, because the only good part of Road Warrior is when Max is fighting the bad guys, and the sentimental hooey back on the ranch is never worth fighting for. An important premise of lone warrior movies is that the lone warrior IS ALONE, so he can't really have a love interest, nor much incentive to save those unwashed, scurvy refugees. And if we grant that the genre has had some excellent entries - Kurt Russel's Soldier notwithstanding - what are you gonna do with it that hasn't been done badly 50 times before - three times by Costner alone, if you count Dances with Wolves. Four times with Robin Hood, if the Crusades count as apocalyptic. Five times if you count The Bodyguard - Whitney Houston as a movie star must be a sign of the end times. "},{"Title":"Real men of the future","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you can put up with the brooding hero throughout the entire length of this movie it's a pretty entertaining story. The dragons are first-rate and the battle with them quite realistic as fantasies go. The politics tossed into dialog seem amusing (Only thing worse than a dragon is Americans) until you realize when it's all over how heavily weighted by politics the production was. The various types of heroes represented are either righteously politically correct or they're made to look like madmen. I'm keeping this movie in my collection as a example of liberal social engineering, well, until the real fire-breathing dragons of this world take everything away. "},{"Title":"Avanti, Vanzanistas!...","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" London has never looked prettier.I was a bit disappointed that the movie didn't live down to my expectations. I was sort of hoping it would be another gem in the Battlefield Earth mold. Yes, it's a silly movie, but by no means anywhere nearly as bad as Travolta's ode to Ed Wood. Full of unanswered questions and gaps in logic, but within reason - or have we all been so dumbed-down by the Armageddons and The Cores of the movie world, so as not to get too upset any more when absurd crap stares us right in the face? Whenever I see people in rags, covered with soot, I think I don't really wanna watch this ugly crap. And what's with all those kids? Is Bale running an orphanage in his fortress? Mad Max II certainly didn't have these many kid survivors, which definitely made it less unrealistic than ROF. For every one adult there seemed to be 100 kids, as if this male dragon fertilized human females, too, not just the dragon ones.So many questions, so little space (the 1000-word IMDb limit). How is it that the whole world, while still intact, couldn't figure out everything that Van Zan and his merry band of vanzandarinos realized about the dragons? This is the essential problem of the movie no matter how they glued a happy ending on this movie, it could not make sense. There is just NO WAY that all the military might and scientific brain-power of the world failed to bring down the dragons - and yet one arrow kills this one male and - voila! - it's all over. (Piece o' cake! Piece o' cake!, to quote characters from Battlefield Earth.) Besides, would humans be so stupid as to nuke all the cities, what with all the ultra-precise weaponry that the most powerful nations have developed over the last decades?? Throwing an atomic bomb to kill a couple of dragons is such overkill that I wouldn't even trust the insane general in Dr.Strangelove to opt for it! How can Van Zan (spiffing name) be sure there is only one male? Maybe somewhere in Indonesia a small male dragon is going through puberty, discovering the joys of masturbation and preparing to take over the fertilization chores of the old Cockney London male dragon geezer. And why did this one male dragon hang around London? Was he homesick? Does he like freckled redheads? Every time he went off to, say, Zambia, to fertilize eggs he'd feel he has to go back to the London's East End? A Cockney dragon indeed. And how did Van Zan know that this male was in London? Did the dragon send him e-mails taunting him to dare come to London and kill him? I'd also like to know why the dragons waited for SO LONG to finally reappear. We're told in the intro that they waited until the food supplies, i.e. humans and animals, finally recovered from the dragons' uncontrolled and badly planned dining habits. So why did they not appear 2000 years ago? There were plenty of humans and animals back then; certainly not nearly as many humans, granted, but plenty of animals, surely...That reminds me there is no mention of animals. Are they on the dragons' menu, too?Apart from the vanzanillions of questions, the movie suffers from focusing too much on irrelevant detail. There are all these relationships between various characters which we simply don't care about. This is supposed to be a 100-minute action movie, hence if you're incapable of writing good dialogue to make the characters' interactions interesting (as in Star Wars), then just leave it be - and GET ON WITH IT. I also thought that Bale and Van Zan having a punch-up was just too silly.Oh, I nearly forgot. When the blonde, Van Zan, and Bale go to London in the big finale, how is it they only fight the male dragon? If my memory serves me correctly, there were dozens if not hundreds of dragons in the sky when the human trio arrived. Surely the male didn't eat all those females in 5 minutes??!! And even if he did (or they ate each other and he ate the rest) why would that happen at the EXACT TIME when our merry world-saving trio appears? Talk about a coincidence. Talk about full-blown nonsense. Another far-fetched coincidence is that Bale, who is from what I understood the first to witness the first dragon, is the ONE to kill him decades later. Come on... "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Definitely a case of wasted potential. The only point that I really felt it captured what I wanted to see was when they got to London and saw the Parliament Buildings infested with dragons. That was pretty cool. Other than that, it's just a generic action flick, with good actors working around clumsy dialogue, some great production design, and rather silly action sequences. The effects are great, but not fully utilized enough, too. Gerard Butler is riotous for the first half an hour, but then he just disappears until his death, and Bale is rather bland here; McConaughey is great, though. There's some great post-apocalyptic ideas played with at the beginning (like when they re-enact The Empire Strikes Back) and I wished it could have stayed the road of sci-fi drama instead of action flick, but oh well. Kinda disappointing, but not terrible. "},{"Title":"Good Visuals","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dragons eat ash? How nutritious! So thats what my big teeth are for! *slaps for forehead*Honestly, the author of this movie is really reaching. Most people I know that wen to see this ended up either walking out, or were glued to their seats in shock lousy bit of filming.Sure there is lots of action bits. The story is pretty disjointed, and there's the ever-present dragons are evil bit simply because they happen to be another species with the capability of outdoing humans (not so nice when you're on the receiving end, is it?). Aside from that, its a pretty blatant attempt at nothing but raw carnage. You might as well of had John Woo directing it. At least the action sequences would have been better.No score to remember, no worthy acting. The dragons were decent enough. The story (can it be called that?) is so shallow it was just an excuse for a human vs evil dragon flick. Almost as though it was some right-wing retaliation to media portraying dragons in a more positive light.I heard the game was better. "},{"Title":"Corny at moments","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is okay. I didn't particularly like it, the dialog was laden with cheesiness and the characters were boring and one-dimensional. I do like the idea of dragons in the future but I would prefer if it was done better. Some scenes can be fun but there is just a critical ingredient that this movie is missing. I don't know how you can go wrong with a movie about a human vs dragon war but it was definitely decidedly bad. I think maybe the movie should have been done on a bigger scale with more than a few dragons and maybe inside of a large city instead of a crappy little fortress. Overall this movie can be okay but also very bad. I did not like it but I'm sure other people will. "},{"Title":"Dragons there have bin sleeping for thousands of years wakes up - to rule the world once again.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Better than it sounds. I may be alone - but i liked it. There is a lot of great scenes, it is well played and the history is not do bad as it sounds. Dragons wakes up from long sleep sounds pretty stupid - I could not agree more, so I admit i did not expect so much, as i was positive surprised. The bads sites would be it needs the chock-effects, and the history is to predictable. Now, do not get your hopes up to high, cause it is far from the best movie I have seen, and if you do you will just get disappointed. But if you like Sceince Fiction/Fantasy, and you don't expect all to much it's pretty good. On scale one to ten (1-10) I have decided to give it 7, but I would probably have given it 6 if I knew what I was going in to. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Edgeless, pointless and ultimately plot less","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What's the point of this movie? Action? Okay, you get a bit but not very much, really. Thrills? Perhaps, only there weren't any. Acting? Kidding, right?! A story, then? Well, most of the story was told in voice-over during the intro credits - not much left for the movie to build on. Pyro tech galore?! Not more than your average TV whodunit. Sci-Fi? Nope - they're trying for realism this time. Pretty girls being rescued by smashing heroes, then? Not even that!? I don't know what more to expect in a movie, other than mystery or drama or psychological depth and high brow stuff like that, but I definitely wouldn't want to impose such expectations upon this type of movie, so all in all it failed to deliver what one could in all fairness come to expect. No edge, no point, no plot - the only full-word I can think of to counter the less-words, is awful - and even that has only one l. "},{"Title":"Limited movie with ultra realistic effects.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really haven't heard of the Secret Lab sfx team before I saw this movie but their work has been truly amazing and their capabilities demonstrated to the fullest extent. The only scene where the sfx looks sub-par is the scene where the dragon climbs out of the mine. The premise is depressing and the dragons make quick work of any human threat, building up a lot of tension and tragedy. In this movie, the humans are really reduced to hopeless insects and you wonder how they'd be able to do about the dragons at all? The dragons thus come out as fully effective monsters to worry about. But the humans do eventually prevail and there's a happy ending. "},{"Title":"An underrated monster movie","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire is a good movie. Thats just what has to be said. Many reviews including reliable sources like Roger Ebert are slating it and thats not just quite right. The film is set in the year 2020. Dragons have become the rulers of the world as it were, and humans are forced to hide out around the world in small groups. The film is'nt perfect but I would have to say as far as monster movies have been going over the last 10 years this is one of the better efforts. The acting from Bale and Matthew Mc coughney is acceptable sometimes even good and there are some cool lines spread throughout the film. The creatures look awesome and the Visual effects are great. The few problems with the film are as follows. Simply ain't enough Dragons throughout and the film definitely doesn't end up anything like the posters would indicate. Also the whole magic hour thing whilst a clever idea is a little hard to get your head round and for those who are'nt easily made to believe things it might take the edge of the film. I am going to stop now but I will say this. Don't listen to those who are ripping this film a part, watch it yourself and if you want to be entertained Reign of Fire wont disappoint "}{"Title":"Flight and Fright.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This dark and fiery Dragon movie breathes dank and despair. The World being over run by a race of timeless dragon's, accidentally unearthed during their hibernation by construction work on the London Underground system. Christian Bale play's Quinn, boy turned man, who first discovers them after visiting his mother at the site. The story continues twenty years later, when the Earth is parched and dust laden. Small bands of survivors are held up in a stone fortress in the barren English Countryside. Scratching for food and ever fearful of attack. At their lowest ebullience, help arrives in the form of Denton Van Zan and his renegade army of American Marines. Well cast, Matthew McConaughey is the zealous leader of the Dragon Slayers, who takes control of this band of English destitute's. Ego's clash and leaders fight for command, during which both camps lose heavily, due to Dragon's and short sightedness. The grand finale is set in a magnificently incinerated and skeletal London Town with the two leading men and Alex Jensen, the US helicopter pilot fighting against the Alpha Male for the survival of the Human Race. This is a well cast movie, with the likes of Messer's Bale and McConaughey playing along side the ever beautiful and talented Polish actress Izabella Scorupco as the US pilot.Winning the Catalonian International Film Festival Award, Spain, for Best Visual Effects by Richard R. Hoover in 2002. His work consists of Armageddon, Unbreakable and Cursed amongst others. Reign of Fire has some of the finest and enthralling cinematography, visual effect's and set design seen in a movie of this genre, that truly does overwhelm and visually delight. The Dragons come across as extremely realistic with a positive menacing and foreboding presence. Overall, Reign of Fire is a superb movie of visual excellence and stunning design, and on this merit, it would be a great loss not to warm up to this movie and to place yourself in hibernation, so spread your wings and breath in deep for the flight and fright. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Action Film","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have to say, what first attracted me to this movie, was the theatrical trailer, which showed helicopters and modern armies combating dragons....It really impressed me...I love movies with big modern weapons combating dragons.So I rented it from Netflix, and I was surprised that one of the best actors (if not the best, in my opinion)today, Christian Bale played a role in this film. So with anticipation I watched it.I have to say the film was for me just about OK. Not what I expected, But not too bad either.I originally thought it was going to be like nations and modern armies against dragons, sort of like Godzilla, instead it was the story of a band of English survivors and a small army of Americans who show up at the English fortress who have come up with a way to kill dragons. Not what I expected but entertaining nonetheless.The story was OK, There are major plot holes, and a major degree of unrealism (How did the Americans get to the UK?, How come they have unlimited fuel, The dragons seem easy to kill, why didn't we kill them with bowguns?) but it was a relatively entertaining film I would have to say that McNaughey does the best acting job, second to Bale, but both are exceptional actors.What most impressed me about this film was the settings, and how artistic a London in ruins looked at the end of the film. The helicopter sequences are also very nicely done. The dragons were all CG, but they looked good, But not as good as Jurassic Park.Overall an entertaining Sci-Fi Action Film, with some good acting performances, an OK story, and lots of unrealism. But hey its a movie! I wouldn't buy it, But I would rent it again.Supra Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"um..no","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably one of the cheesiest but entertaining movies I've seen. The story is screwed up in so many ways and the acting and the dialog are kind of messy. However, the special effects still keep you entertained. Okay, the whole logic of the film is screwed up. Somehow, one of the lead characters Van Zan comes up with all these theory's of dragon extermination. He discovers that there is only one male dragon, and that it resides in London. He came up with this strange way of dragon catching which involves using a sky diving team to be used as human bait, which brings out the question of how they practice that kind of thing. Finally, at the end of the film when the male dragon is dead, all of the female dragons suddenly stop attacking? Did they go into depression because their gigolo is gone? All of these things go unexplained and that's just one of the things that gets to me about this film. If it weren't for the special effects, I would have given this film a much lower rating. but for now it gets a 4/10. "},{"Title":"There are three great things about this movie ...","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 1. Even though this is a low-key role for him, it's an opportunity to witness the development of Christian Bale's acting career. This guy is going places -- he's breathed humanity into Batman and depth of character into Bruce Wayne (no easy feat). He's a shoe-in for the next James Bond.2. The dragons were fantastic! The close-up shots were so well done, i could almost smell their rancid breath. Exhilarating.3. Matthew MacConaghey delivers the best performance of his career. I never knew he had it in him! I'm convinced his bad-ass American character (perfect!) was responsible for landing him the Dirk Pitt role. If only he could stick to this type of character and abandon all those cheesy romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Could Dragons have Reached the US??","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After seeing this movie, a group of friends and I argued whether the dragons could have made their way across the oceans to the US and destroyed it. Some said that they could, gliding to save energy, crossing from Siberia into Alaska and then down to the mainland. They also thought they would destroy us once here despite our military might.I don't think they make it over. First, we would know what was happening in Europe and we would be ready for them. I doubt they could fly across the Atlantic, so their only access would be from Siberia. They can be destroyed with missiles, so we would pick them off well before they reached Alaska. As for Europe and Asia, you're on your own. "},{"Title":"How could they?","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film about a week ago after missing the chance of seeing it first time around, and can i say now this film was possibly the worst ever film and i mean the worst! I saw it when i saw Christian Bale in 'American Psycho'and 'Shaft'which he was some of the most evil villains i have ever seen on screen, i am also bit of a Matthew Mcconaughey buff after seeing 'A time to kill' and 'Frailty'which he was both magical in.Then i see this and i thought both those two good actors should be embarrassed after doing this. The story was awful! the acting was not even all that from these two! and just the film itself was a load of old cobblers!I was hoping to add it to my collection though.I wander if anyone is selling it quite cheap. No higher than 10p though. "},{"Title":"Excellent, if you're braindead","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What's the worst way to kill a dragon? Let three people jump from a helicopter, making sure they don't open their schutes while trying to shoot a net in some random direction.What's the worst way to fortify yourself expecting a fire-spitting flying monster? Not to protect yourself at all.How could all the armies of the world fail against those monsters? They use nukes instead of conventional weapons. Apparently. Or they were just playing scrabble while the monsters were destroying them.What is the worst way of using armored cars when expecting an attack from such monsters? Stay outside.And, of course, the fate of humankind rests on the shoulders of one man armed with a bow and arrows.  "},{"Title":"I wish I'd rented 'Twelve Monkeys.'","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even before this film really got rolling, that thought popped into my head. I should've acted on it and gone back to the video store.There are some good, tense action sequences, but overall, Reign of Fire is only so-so. I'll have to admit, though, that it takes a bit of talent to start with a fairly original idea and drown it in clichs and predictability - all in 102 minutes. *Warning Don't read before watching, major spoilers ahead*There are a lot of problems with this movie, the most obvious being the great many things that just simply don't hang together. A kid allowed to go unsupervised into a London Underground construction site? Really? Dragons buried underground for most of history? So what do they eat? And later on, they're starving? Why don't they just go hibernate again? Oh, and the first kid to see a dragon ends up being one of the very last people left alive on earth? What are the odds of that? Given the high-maintenance nature of helicopters, I wondered just how the heck they managed to keep that one in the air. Alex must be one heck of a helicopter mechanic. Not to mention that the relatively slow-moving helicopter is entirely a sitting duck for the far more nimble dragons. Fuel? I guess this model doesn't need it. Wish I could get in on that technological breakthrough. How about an entire species that depends for its survival on one single individual? Huh? I can guaran-darn-tee such a species wouldn't be around for long. And in the entire 20-year history of the destruction of close to 6 billion people, nobody on the entire planet noticed the dragons' weakness until now? Oh... and the dragons are NOT defeatable using all the modern high-tech weaponry the world's nations have to offer, but if you've got a bow and arrow with a few ounces of C4, you can take one of those bad boys down?By the way, why didn't a LOT of people simply dig in underground and wait for these creatures to starve? So much for the basic premises. Plot-wise, maybe I didn't need the spoiler warning, you can see what's coming anyway. In the scene leading up to the, um, climax of the film, one of the main characters gives a rousing little speech Now we have a chance to make a difference.You're going to die, I replied out loud to the screen. And sure enough, about two minutes later, he did. Yawn. Of course, the remaining hero saves the day, yada, yada. And when he does, he's greeted by what has to be, in context, one of the worst lines of the decadeHe always thought you could do it. And you did.*Always*? Really???? They were such looooooong and close friends. Maybe even a whole week, and at each other's throats almost the entire time.Not content to leave you squirming with that little stunner, the director administers the final coup de grace. When Quinn picks up van Zan's axe, it's such a clich it almost made me shudder with revulsion.Still, Reign of Fire isn't the worst movie I've ever seen, and like I mentioned, there are some exciting action scenes, and the dragon is reasonably cool. I'll give RoF about a 3 or 4 out of 10, largely based on the effects and action. Slightly below average, but there's an awful lot of awful stuff being produced. The director gets a bit of sympathy as well. It's a tough world when you can spend who knows how much to produce what once would probably have been considered a blockbuster of a movie, and somebody like me just yawns and shoots it down. Next time, though, I'll go for a rerun viewing of Twelve Monkeys. I shoulda done that tonight - instead, I settled for only 3. ;-)  "},{"Title":"5/10 could do better","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Strange film !!! badly directed and plays like a TV movie. Probably because the director is so use to TV work. The film would have been better if the main story had been the fight for the world that is mentioned in the movie , its almost like a follow up movie to a movie that was never made. Liked the way they linked the extinction of the dinosaurs and the creation of the ice age into the the theory of dragon history. Very slow at the start and lacks any real momentum. The dragons look quite good and are convincing enough in fact they are more real and less wooden than some of the acting in this movie.Tim  "},{"Title":"False Advertising","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The trailer for this movie was blatantly misleading 1.) There are hardly any dragon scenes in the movie. 2.) There are no apache attack helicopters. 3.) Instead of showing dragons, they just show flames coming out of nowhere and expect you to just imagine dragons in your mind.  If all I wanted was to imagine dragons, I would've just read a book instead of watching a movie.If you want to see a movie with dragons, go see DragonHeart of Lord of the Rings.This movie will disappoint. "}{"Title":"So much potential....","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Nothing of the great potential, the idea of the film carries, is transported by the movie itself.Who want's to see a post nuclear lame story - with barely a few dragons seen - while the entire big pizza of >menfighting dragons< is just skipped in one ludicrous short explanation?!?Oh my god, there's only one male! WHY?WHERE did all the female dragons come from? Did they just materialize from outer space?You can simply kill a dragon with one arrow but they'reimmune to any other fire weapons?!Throw a tactical nuke on a dragon and he just smiles with a big grin?!? AGAIN - WHY? <Complete lack of logic< All together - nothing special - many plot holes! An absolutely average B-Movie - no more, no less  "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I dont want to say the typical this is a good movie, but it was. I thought Christian Bale was very convincing and so was Matthew McConaughey.I could not believe the transformation Matthew made physically for this film. I would like to see these two actors team up again!The dragons were excellent, I cant remember seeing a film where they seemed more real. There was a real story line where you connected with the actors, and could feel their struggle. There was an underlying tension I felt throughout the film,which never went away. And the fact that Van Zan dies,that seemed like a quick way to get rid of a complex character.I was expecting something more from him...but overall, a very good film "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to like this film so bad,but was ultimately let down by a sheer lack of story or logic. What you have left is two great performances by McConaughey and Bale and some thrilling scenes with CGI dragons. I'll give the actors a load of credit. They bring a lot of charisma and acting chops for a film that doesn't want to create multideminsional characters. Also,we get a hackeneyed apocalyptic set up that doesn't want to put any effort of creating the story properly. I'd rather see some word scroll across the screen than some narration and a few scenes. The climax is thrilling, making London look like a city from Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome. Our heroes battle a male dragon in a unique action contest of wills. There is not enough meat to the story for my taste. I get a less than satisfying film. It could've been something,I believe,if more development had went into it's making. **/***** "},{"Title":"Reign of fire? More like a damp squib","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a terrible disappointment.  Yes, it is Mad Max meets Dragonheart, only the plot to this movie has more holes than a tramps vest. A shame really as there is excellent potential here; the dragons look good and the apocalyptic survivors suitably mutter and beat their breasts in response to the aerial menace.  It just goes to show you cannot cheat the viewer, because cheated we truly are.  You'd have to remove your brain totally to accept the bizarre logic of the piece, and this in turn totally defuses any dramatic narrative.  The rumbling sountrack also obscures various critical dialogue moments which I personally found particularly irksome as I desperately hoped one or other character would at some time explain what the heck was going on.  If this is the best humans can do in some future post-apocalyptic world ruled by flying fire-breathing reptiles we might as well all pack up and go home right now. In conclusion Not so much a bang, as a whimper. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but quite watchable","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film could have been an original and imaginative exploration of an apocalyptic world. Unfortunately the producers seemed to have lacked imagination and showed contempt for the audience. The plot sleepwalked through the film, cliches abound, and the plot holes are large enough to get lost in. The film was still fun, but could have been much, much better, with a little effort.-spoilers-How did the hero know that the sole (!!) male dragon was the one he saw some 20 years ago. How did he know it would still be in the same hole. With the city of London in ruins, how could he even have found the site?The formerly vast and rapidly expanding (when food exists) population of dragons were dependent on one male. If there was just the one male to start with, how did they multiply at all? That the audience is expected to swallow these biological absurdities is astonishing.If nuclear weapons were used against the dragons in major cities, why was London still more or less intact, since it was the source of the scourge? It would in reality be a radioactive wasteland.If the colony was afraid of dragons attacking them when they tended their crops, why didn't they try to camouflage them? The nursery was so far away that it would be impossible to safely reach it from the castle. If the crop was not yet ready to harvest, why were the fruits so red and juicy?Why did over 200 Americans fly to northern England- Northumberland is nowhere near London- to assist the Brits. Pity the country that needs heroes. It seemed that the arrogant yanks had either been forced from their own country- and the rudeness masked insecurity- or they had some ulterior motives in coming to northern England. Yet after being easily decimated by dragons, it appears that the visitors story (that they had simply wanted to kill dragons) was true after all. But why did they leave America to do it, and why were they so unsuccesful in England after supposedly killing hundreds of dragons in America?Incidentally, no National Guard C5 Galaxy could carry a tank, several heavy trucks, a helicopter, 200 men, and supplies. No wonder they crashed. After 20 years the avgas would be bad, assuming that they hadn't run out of reserves.The celebrating refugees seemed to be making as much noise as possible. That and the floodlights suggested that they wanted to attrack the dragons. Surely their ethos was to stay low and avoid detection. There was dozens if not hundreds of adults, yet when six were forced to go to London with the Americans only a few adults remained. Stranger still, when the dragon attacked the castle the remaining adults were all killed, leaving only children. Odd to say the least.The dragons must have a very efficient intelligence system to know that the attacking Americans came from the Nothumberland castle. Unless they were being watched all along, which begs the question- why weren't they attacked before?If bombs didn't block the road to London, and no humans had, surely it isn't implied that the dragons had themselves blocked the roads! A huge flying repile would have neither the ability nor the need to create roadblocks.The stupidest part of the film is the reliance on technology combined with suicidal tactics. After 20 years of chaos, fire, and EMP's, there would be no working electronics worth speaking of. The aircraft would be permanently grounded, and 3-D imaging wouldn''t work. Jumping out of a helicopter without a parachute, and riding a motorcycle in front of a dragon sound like sure ways to get killed. And they were.Despite all this the film was enjoyable. The basic premise was original, and the special effects were reasonably good. "},{"Title":"$95 Million goes up in Smoke","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While watching the DVD bonus features last night, I was quite surprised to hear one of the producers proudly announcing this film is The most original dragon movie ever made.Well, I'm sorry Mr Producer, but your movie is far from original.The dragons look like the dragon from Dragon Slayer, the story is simply a gender reversal of Aliens, and the settings are exactly like Dragon Heart or Battlefield Earth (or every other apocalyptic movie, just take your pick!)I never bothered looking at the movie posters so didn't fathom the fact the city burning was supposed to be London. Didn't they burn London in that awful 80's flick Life Force? And 28 Days Later? (which was better than this flick, at least in the horror department)What a complete waste of 95 million bucks! Dialogue was cliche-ridden and absymal Lock and Load, baby! said at least ten times. The characters were forgettable. It's impossible to suspend disbelief, the plot holes are so glaringly obvious even a blind monkey would spot them. I won't go into detail on these, except to outlay a few small points. So can someone please explain to meA) how the destruction of a single male dragon will bring about the extinction of the entire dragon species;B) why scenes that could've shown world-wide destruction are *conveniently omitted* and replaced with a ridiculous '20 years later';C) why the dragons receive only ten minutes worth of screen time;D) and for the rest of the movie's running time the audience is subjected to the excrutiating sight of sweaty, naked man-boobs thrust in their faceCONCLUSIONNice to watch if you're female wanting to see a few pounds of partially-naked man flesh... Nice to watch if you want to see how ripped your pecs and abs will look after a couple of years workout in the gym... Nice to watch if your diet consists of pure testosterone...I rate this flick 4/10 one for each boobie!  "},{"Title":"Uhhh it has a few good moments but it's mostly mid-level cheese","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ************** WARNING POTENTIAL SPOILERS ************************Where do I start?..there's just too many implausibilties.   For instance it takes a major support infrasructure to keep a helicopter in the air. Who on earth makes C4 tipped BOW and ARROW arrows???? Sheesh.  Is that left over from the nuclear bear hunting arsenal?Look, here's what I liked  The skydiving Archangel scene.  At least that held my interest.  I like the scene where Quinn is sizing up Van Zan and shows the dragon's tooth and describes it's vulnerability.   The hot blonde was easy to look at but seemed unbelievable as the helicopter pilot of the rough crew.  Call it what you will...she just wasn't believable.  Not that the main male lead actors were that much more believable.  I'm willing to suspend dis-belief in a lot of other movies, but this somehow...it just wasn't baked correctly.   I give it 5.5 stars. "},{"Title":"Wasted Time and wasted Money","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Story have all, what you never need in a movie. The Actors play boringly, the Story is thin like a Newspaper. If you beginn to think about the Story from the Movie you quit it after a couple of minutes. The only good Action are the Dragons but that's not enough to make a worth seeing movie.  "},{"Title":"Reign of Dialogue(AKAShow Me the Dragons!)","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is nothing negative I can say about this film movie that hasnt already been said other than this would have been a great made for TV movie, but as a major motion picture this is unacceptable. Rob Bowman you owe me $8.50 "},{"Title":"sorry guys - i actually LIKED it...","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  sorry guys, i actually LIKED the movie - go ahead and call me stupid, or small-minded, or whatever...look, it's a post-apocalyptic dreary Dragonslayer basically.there was nothing wrong with that idea.i found the idea of the 17 seconds lifespan for the flying bait creepy.i found the idea of humans nearly self-destructing with nukes creepy.did the plot break down a bit?  sure.did people see the poster and think oh wow - it's gonna be Braveheart with Dragons!?  sure.but overall, the movie ran well.worst movie?  nah, that's Jeepers Creepers. "}{"Title":"Gaze at the cover art and dream of the movie that could have been","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Final Score 3.8 (out of 10)Dragon movies are such a lifeless subgenera that to do anything to put a fresh spin on them would be an interesting and welcome change of pace. Anything. At the ground level, `Reign of Fire' has got to be the most high-concept Dragon movie in years. And it still manages to be a total bore. It's almost as if they made an effort to keep out all the creativity and excitement that this movie could have been laced with.`Reign of Fire' (a title that almost sounds pretentious) picks up after dragons have emerged from deep in the Earth and nearly exterminated the human race. That's the first mistake of a movie that amounts to a plethora of missed opportunities. The movie glosses over what would have been much more interesting movie about the battle between mankind and a race of dragons in favor of following a band of survivors in a dreary post-apocalyptic future. It feels assembled off the cutting room floor from the scraps of a bigger, better movie. There are ideas here and there like when the movie gives us it's explanation for how the dragons breathe fire. The best scene is one where skydivers jet toward the ground in an effort to capture a flying dragon in a net. It doesn't make a lick of sense even in the rules set-up by the movie, but it is at least a lively action set-piece.The stars of the show are obviously the visual effects used to bring the dragons the life. I wonder how much Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale got paid to wear long dreadlocks and lend their names to the credit above the title. The effects are remarkably detailed, but they also have a detached quality to them. They don't have the feel of existing in real space. Director Rob Bowman (`The X-Files` movie) never gets us down and dirty in there with them. The dragons are almost always at a distance as if to make it obvious that our heroes are crawling around in front of a blue screen. Bowman, himself, proves useless to the proceedings. Even in life-and-death, save-the-world situations he fails to generate the slightest rise out of the audience. He approaches this movie with the same banal style that works on a straight-drama like `The X-Files' but doesn't fly when the audience is expecting to see a big, blistering roller-coaster action movie. "},{"Title":"Reign of Dire","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!!!!! Once again the noble Americans (led by post-apocalyptic Village People nominee Matthew McConaughey) ride to the rescue of the beleaguered Brits and slay the nasty, ash-and-human eating dragons. At least I assume they did, because half-way through this dreadful carnival of stereotypes my wife and I gave up in embarrassment and watched a Channel Four sitcom instead. On second thoughts, though, you could probably have quite a good drinking game with the cliches in this one, you know the drill hero's mum pops her clogs (swig); disaster strikes, and the human race is reduced to a level of articulation marginally lower than that of Sylvester Stallone (swig); appearance of sets, costumes and vehicles on loan from the Mad Max museum (swig); bloke goes stir-crazy (swig); stir-crazy bloke meets nasty end (swig); and so on, until you're three parts cut and have almost forgotten about the atrocious acting and the cringe-making dialogue. Probably best consigned to the dustbin. "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  With the exception on the behalf of Matthew Mcconaughey and Christian Bale's performances, because I truly believe that they tried, I have to say that this movie sucked fireballs. 5.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Appropriately for something which credits a Richard Hoover, this movie sucks.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In Meet the Parents, Robert DeNiro is not pleased when Ben Stiller tells his prospective father-in-law that his favourite song, Puff the Magic Dragon, is about drugs as opposed to being a happy fantasy about a seaside-dwelling creature who likes to frolic in Hona Lee with Jackie Piper. That one scene has more dramatic tension and entertainment than all of Reign of Fire.This classic case of how to take something with lots of potential and almost totally fail to deliver reportedly cost $95 million, but most of it must have gone on Matthew McConaughey's workouts and tattoos, because Touchstone Pictures and Spyglass Entertainment didn't get much else of it on screen. The poster image of dragons attacking London, as all too many others have pointed out, doesn't actually occur in the movie - in fact, most of the movie is set in Northumberland, not a standard setting even for British movies, let alone American ones like this (I don't care if this is officially A United Kingdom/Ireland Co-Production, this one is Hollywood's fault), and apart from the first scene where the dragon is unearthed in the capital of England - no, Mark Radclyffe fans, not Manchester - devastated country landscapes drenched in Adrian Biddle's intentionally washed-out cinematography rule the day.Perhaps to avoid accusations of overdoing the FX, director Rob Bowman and writers Gregg Chabot, Matt Peterka and Matt Greenberg put the emphasis on the people living in the castle around which the action revolves, which is in itself no bad thing... but a director who can handle big action moments helps in situations like this, as does a script which builds proper characters and develops a strong threat instead of coming up with a cross between Godzilla (the Emmerich version, alas) and Twister. In the latter movie, the monsters were forces of nature, not sentient threats, so that movie at least had an excuse for not being able to characterise the enemy, but here the people are battling something and it doesn't register, in part because the dragons aren't used enough.As a result, it undercuts the work of the movie's real stars - ladies and gentlemen, I give you visual effects supervisor Richard R. Hoover, co-visual effects supervisor Dan DeLeeuw, digital effects supervisor John Murrah, CG animation supervisor Eamonn Butler, creature supervisor Rob Dressel, animal anatomy consultant Stuart Sumida and dragon concept consultant Matt Codd - and means we're stuck with Bowman successfully capturing the grimness of this future world but failing to deliver a rousing adventure or even making us care. There's an early sign of culture clash when a character says There's only one thing worse than dragons... Americans, but most of the conflict between McConaughey and the group's leader Christian Bale is based on personality - or as much of it as they have (and McConaughey's valiant attempts to be tough aside, he does deliver more of a performance than anyone else).Edward Shearmur's score deserves a better framework than it gets (and an end title suite instead of a flipping song!), and I'm convinced that Disney's closure of their in-house effects company The Secret Lab has more to do with this movie's (deserved) box-office failure than TSL's work in it, but when you see a movie about a world under attack from deadly fire-breathing critters and the highlight is characters performing a scene from The Empire Strikes Back for the children in their care, something's wrong. The director may have past history on The X-Files, but one wishes the makers of Reign of Fire could have channeled the spirits of Sam Raimi or Joss Whedon instead of Chris Carter. "},{"Title":"Good Acting by Bale and McConaughey","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't think it's as bad as many of the other reviewers seem to believe it to be. I thought the acting was good by Bale and McConaughey and the others who were allowed to create there characters (not much character development to speak of).  The movie caught my attention enough to make the time go fast for me (although admittedly draggy at times which took me out of the movie sometimes).  It was a good try by the director.   "},{"Title":"Spectacular... spectacularly bad","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is spectacular&#133; spectacularly bad that is. The year is twenty years from today. Fire-breathing dragons have taken over the world, destroying everything in their wake, leaving just a few iron-willed survivors who live a primitive lifestyle, have become very muscular and apparently like to take off their shirts when they work. Their leader, Quinn (Christian Bale) is a moral, principled man who just wants to protect his extended family from the dragons and lead a decent life inside his castle. This utopian dream is upset one day when Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) shows up at his front gate. Van Zan is a buff American Dragon Slayer who says things like `Let's rock and roll!' when going into battle with the fire-breathing demons; the kind of guy who pours testosterone on his Wheaties in the morning. With veins popping and eyes bulging McConaughey chews every bit of scenery in sight, sometimes threatening to bite clean through the screen and assail the audience. Bale struggles to turn Quinn into something more than a cardboard character, and as a result never achieves the over-the-top quality of McConaughey. Reign of Fire was directed by Rob Bowman, best known for helming The X-Files on television. He knows a thing or two about how to create a foreboding atmosphere, but his action sequences fall flat. The battle scenes are over-edited to the point where the viewer can't tell who is who and what they are doing. It dulls impact of the scene when you can't really tell what is happening on the screen. If you find pumped-up and shirtless heroes entertaining you might like Reign of Fire. If not, stay home and rent Dragonslayer instead. "},{"Title":"Reign of mediocre action","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I hate to review one movie by comparing it to another, but in this case it clearly is called for. This movie is similar to Roland Emmerich's Godzilla in that it's a monster movie that spends much of its running time having people talk about the monster, instead of the movie showing the monster. I don't believe it would have been necessary for dragons to be onscreen every single minute, because there has to be a short reprieve once or twice, just to let the story breathe, but the dragons MUST be more of a presence. Otherwise it's just a bunch of dirty people sitting around talking about how scary the dragons are. I was expecting to see ninety minutes of desperate humans in tanks and helicopters battling to kick some scaly dragon butt. That only happened a couple times, and most of the time they were just running away. This movie tries to take time to develop its characters, but it's not necessary. Their character would come out while they're fighting dragons. That's how it really works; the way people truly are will always emerge in stressful situations. This movies goes on for ten or fifteen minutes at a time, trying to be some kind of drama about surrogate fatherhood, then a dragon flies by and scares everybody except the audience, then it compares natural leadership to acquired leadership to forced leadership, then they go out to find a dragon, then a bunch of other stuff happens until there's another dragon. I watched the DVD a second time and programmed it to skip all the boring chapters. It turned into a twenty-five minute movie about fighting dragons, and I liked it that way. The other way was too dull to hold my attention, and my attention is easily held with a good story, no matter what the effects are like, and the effects were good, but not good enough to make up for what's missing. "},{"Title":"TOTAL BURN - WHERE DID ALL THE DRAGONS GO?","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When they came up with that infamous phrase, RIP-OFF, they undoubtably had 'Reign of Burn' in mind.  Gotta hand it to good ol' Hollywood today, they sure know the great art of (mis)producing the LOST OPPORTUNITY.  Is that what the film schools are teaching today;  Being suck-cessful instead of creative, innovative, imaginative and intelligent?  This dreary waste of fine film stock goes all the way and then some to solidly confirm this disconcertingly dismal fact.I won't bore you to tears by harking on all the script's flaws and idiotic inconsistencies, since they've already been fully documented in previous outraged reviews.  Obviously, only a dull, academic nerd will expect a fantasy tale to be 1OO% scientifically correct, but when it's this far off the mark, it just becomes condescendingly insulting.Those who concoct that classic Chill out, it's only a movie rationale should bare in mind that even a fantasy has to have some genuine ground in reality in order for its story to fully develope and move.  The early 'Star Wars' films utilized this vital technique - and their overall critical and commercial successes highly attest to these valid notions.Also, It's only a Movie still has to have some substance and consistency in order for it to really be worth your while.  ROF proves to be the old standard cop-out that only promises to deliver, then doesn't.  (I thought only politicians were the creepy masters of that).Like most, I was duped by those scary posters of London being incinerated by the dragons as Apache copters engage in tense battle with them.  Imagine that big SURPRISE! when none of that appears in the film, except for some insipid film student newspaper montage that is nearly ONE WHOLE MINUTE LONG!; explaining how vast armies of winged monsters have risen up (Where? How?) and destroyed most of the world.  One grand old rule of film  SHUT UP & SHOW IT!!!!!The opening scene where the first male dragon is accidentely unearthed in the underground excavation site was actually starting to generate some frightening suspense.  So, what clever trick does our dumb director do next? Elementary.  He jumps ahead twenty years later.    Sorta like 'Star Wars' without the wars.  Awesome, isn't it?  Thus, everything worth watching has already happened a long, long time ago.  YAWN. SNORE.I would have loved seeing what occured right after the first one escaped, and how all the rest came to be.  THE RISE OF THE DRAGONS.  Then, their initial attacks against the world's leading cities, and, so it isn't all just dragon breath and charcoaled mankind, that crucial scene when the scientists discover that history is repeating itself  They had previously wiped-out the dinosaurs and started the ice age.  How bout some eerie flasbacks that surrealistically SHOW THIS staggering 'historical event,' instead of just mentioning it in passing.  Then, the fierce battles where mankind gets his fat-ass butt kicked in, while people flee in panic and mayhem from this mythical menace that has now graduated to full reality. Also, the humiliation of modern, complacent civilization being annhiliated by legendary, mythical creatures of old folklore.  Now, THAT would be very satisfying to behold.  (H.G. Welles's 'War of the Worlds' had that disturbing underlying theme of complacency being effectively castrated by the superior alien menace).Finally, that ironic closing scene where the fleeing survivors find that old medieval castle that will now be their fortress/home - comparable to Heston finding the Statue of Liberty at the memorably haunting fade-out to the original 'Planet of the Apes'.Essentially, all quips aside, this is the dragon epic that should have been made, instead of this boring direct-to-cable mess that only had fleeting moments of action.'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Goodness, gracious...  *SPOILERS*","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh. My. God. What a lousy movie. I had no intention of ever seeing REIGN OF FIRE, but I heard about McConaughey's buff and brawny bod, so at least I had something to look at if the movie itself sucked.I guess the movie's failure boils down to its pathetic lack of imagination. Enormous resources - budget, filming location, ideas - are canceled out by a timid, confused screenplay. Special effects create magnificent mythological beasts, and all the moviemakers can think of doing is kill them with conventional weaponry.  (Curiously, the dragons - the big draw of the movie, after all - are kept off screen for as much as possible, leading me to wonder what the movie's $95M budget went.)Not only that, but the ramshackle script is ridden with contradictions and unanswered questions. If aircraft can safely take the sky during sunup and sundown, how did McC fly from North America to Europe during only one sunset? How can one dragon hibernate for millions of years underground, undisturbed and undiscovered the entire time? Why make a point of saying the dragons eat only ash if we see them gobbling up supporting characters and other dragons? What nutritional qualities could ash contain, anyway? With most of the world's citizens cowering in shelter, how does everyone the gasoline for their vehicles? How can a dragon in freefall to earth for thousands of feet emit fire from its mouth and not incinerate itself? What was the exact reasoning behind the skydiving sequence? If there's only one male dragon, what does he do, continuously fly around the globe fertilizing eggs the world over, across oceans and everything, without stopping? What became of the million female dragons when the male was killed? And with the world in chaos, how did McC find such a skilled tattoo artist and a sharp enough blade to keep his head so smooth?It would also have been beneficial for the movie to have shown the rise of the creatures. Really, if there was enough time for a lengthy scene of children's theatre re-enacting a scene from STAR WARS, surely there was ample opportunity to show how things became the way they were when the main story started.And someone please explain the meaning of the movie's final line Good thing for evolution.On the other hand, McC was very hot. I was digging those tats even while wondering how, and why, he got them. He gave the movie his all, and I did get a kick from his over-the-top bravado in his final scene. And the widescreen photography was very nice, despite some obviously phony CGI.3/10 "},{"Title":"Failed to excite me  (spoilers)","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of flying, fire-breathing dragons but this barely registered.  There's weren't many dragons, none had much of a personality and everything people knew about them came from nowhere.  How did they know there was only one male, instead of a small number? Also if there was only one, wouldn't he be on a constant round the world mating flight?  Also if there was only one wouldn't they have had a fair chance to kill it before society collapsed.  They didn't fight the dragons very intelligently.  That whole leaping out of the helicopter thing made no sense at all, even on a clear day. "}{"Title":"A Colossal Misfire","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When this movie was announced, quite a few of us were very excited. I had never seen a good dragon movie before - it seems dragon movies are either maudlin and sentimental, or just silly. Unfortunately after seeing Reign of Fire, I still haven't seen a good dragon film.There are numerous problems with the movie, the first of which is the strange decision to skip the destruction of the major cities and instead zoom forward to the future. The curious lack of dragons is probably the biggest problem with the film. We see a poorly-edited and truncated dragon attack in the beginning, then are forced to endure a long stretch with rebels huddling in a dank castle. The dragon attacks throughout the rest of the movie are mostly unsatisfying, as they generally involve one dragon against a few defenseless humans.Also disturbing is the inability of the dragons to stick to their preordained behavior. We are told repeatedly that they eat ash, yet several scenes involve them chomping live human beings, or at one point eating each other raw. And at one point the humans flee, saying They don't care about us ... they just want the ash from the field. So why don't the dragons attack the field?We are never told how the dragons know when people are out and about. They just magically appear when they need to. For people who have survived as long against the dragons, the humans in the castle are also poorly equipped and show total disregard for safety. After killing one dragon they fire up gigantic spotlights and blast them across the sky; candles blaze in every window. Their early warning system consists of a bird and a spyglass.Not that they do much better when Van Zan shows up. The entire Van Zan plotline is poorly thought out from the beginning - how this person and his troops managed to survive in the open countryside for so long, how they found ammunition and fuel ... so many questions left unanswered. In the only scene of the group traveling they are attacked, quite sensibly, by a dragon and their ranks utterly destroyed. This never happened before?Then it is revealed how they attack the dragons - the ludicrous idea of skydiving and attempting to snare them in a net. In the one attempt they lose two men. One burns in (apparently they have no AADs on their chutes, and no altimeter) and the other gets chomped. The skydiving itself is pretty ludicrous - I have 32 freefalls and have never seen 15000 feet of vertical cloud cover - and at one point the dragon shoots a wall of flame from his mouth, while plummeting face first. Impossible.Okay, so it is a technical misfire. It is a plotting misfire - nothing happens that is particularly compelling. And then there is the resolution, which is absolutely inane. The heroes reveal that there must be one male - one - and if they find him and kill him the race will die out. Yeah, seems sensible ... one male? The finale then becomes a poorly choreographed showdown between three people and the one male dragon. Very unsatisfying.Most confusing are the characters. McConaughey plays Van Zan as a cigar-chomping, wild-eyed Texas lunatic, spouting nonsense like Eden isn't burning, it's burnt! Bale is mostly whiny, and Izabella Scorupco doesn't really register. They fail to work as a unit; the rest are mostly redshirts waiting to get burned in anonymous action sequences.This was definitely a disappointment. Due to its poor box office returns I doubt they will make another, but it would be much cooler to see the destruction of cities, and actual battle with the dragons, than this low-rent rebel camp nonsense. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was quite disappointed with this movie. I expected it to show how the dragons took the world over, but it was just a slideshow of stupid newspapers headlines, for about 1 minute, and we're 20 years in the future. That was the first bad point of the movie. With that bad explanation of how one single dragon copied himself (in female version) faster that Smith in Matrix Reloaded to destroy almost all humans, I can't buy the rest of the movie. I mean, if with all the people, technology, weapons, etc, you can't stop the dragon, can you do it with a crossbow ?.Nonsense. The beginning of the movie was nonsense, and the rest made honor to that nonsense and was also stupid. An insult to the intelligence. If you can, avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a masterpiece but heavily underrated. The acting was superb, not overly grandiose and felt very real for the situations the characters faced. They were living in dire times filled with paranoia, skepticism, desperation and fear. Bale's character was portrayed brilliantly and Matthew's was equally well acted as the cold, emotionless soldier. Above average and well worth renting. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the slowest in the genre...","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Released almost back-to-back with EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS, this film just seems to not be able to handle the pressure of being an action-adventure movie. Christian Bale just looks tired here and he doesn't even seem to have the least amount of enthusiasm. Izabella Scorupco is only in the film for the purpose of having a woman in the film (because there just *has* to be a woman in these kind of movies). Most of the film moves along at a turtle's pace and is not very exciting at all.But...the story is well-developed I must say. The writers seem to have thought their ideas through more than some writers. The dragon designs are also better than they have been in past films (like DRAGONHEART, for example). Like EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS, the action sequences are somewhat intense, but they just seem tired. Like the writers were half-asleep when they wrote those scenes. What happened to good old intense action sequences? Like JURASSIC PARK III. That movie was loaded with them. REIGN OF FIRE seems to be trying to compete with that movie almost because the creature animation seems similar. But of course, JURASSIC PARK III was far better.Either way, the film is a fun time if you just turn your brain off before you start watching it. The ending was what I enjoyed the most.REIGN OF FIRE 3/5 (average). "},{"Title":"THE FILM IT COULD HAVE BEEN","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In case you've been lost in space in a galaxy far, far away (someone should make a movie about that), the latest Hollywood filmmaking trend is the WASTED OPPORTUNITY.  You've undoubtably suffered through them a few times, and thus painfully familiar with the good ol' formula  TAKE A PROMISING PREMISE, GET THE VIEWERS' HOPES HYPED, THEN RUN IT RIGHT INTO THE GROUND, and then brillantly assert that (get ready for the big, famous catchline) IT WAS ONLY A MOVIE.  Hmmmm, I thought it was a peanut butter and balony sandwich.  What do I know?Here we have the perfect textbook example. I won't bore you by harping on the zillion flaws since you've heard um all before.  After an interesting opening scene where the dragon escapes from an underground London excavation site, director Bowman suddenly segues into a newspaper montage explaining how hordes of more fire-breathers have emerged (from where? How?) and have laid waste to most of the world.  (Politically Incorrect dragons with misanthropic attitudes.  See, there is intelligent life on this planet afterall).NOW, allow me to ask the big, dumb question  HOW COME THAT WASN'T THE STORY?When we jump ahead twenty years later (how time flies when the world is being destroyed), everything worth seeing has already happened.  Sorta like showing up at the party about twenty minutes after everyone has split and there's nothing left but empty beer cans.  Great way to spend an exciting evening isn't it?  Is there a script doctor in the house?Wouldn't it have been more suspenseful to have seen what occured right after the male dragon escaped and how all the others came to be?  Did it help to unleash the rest from the bowels of the Earth?  As an added bonus, did they also lay a few millions eggs that just happened to hatch at the appropriate moment?  (This is pseudo movie science, not Einstein).  Talk about planned parenthood.I was all geared up to want to see their initial attacks against the world's major cities (INDEPENDENCE DRAGON; just spare me the thrilling excitment of Will Smith) and all the panic and mayhem that ensued.  (Considering the state of planet earth today, who wouldn't?).  NEXT, I would have really dug that crucial scene when the scientists finally realize (OH OH!) that it was our fine, flaming friends that undiplomatically evicted the dinosaurs and started the ice age - and three guesses as to who's next on the hot menu??? Also, imagine a surreal flashback that actually SHOWS this horrifying 'historical' event instead of  Oh yeah, I almost forgot; those dragons wiped out the dinosaurs and most of the human race. So what else did you do over the weekend?Forgive my patronizing, but isn't that what those cleverly deceptive posters and trailers were trying to B.S. us into believing - and buying?THEN, the spectacular battles and devastation scenes (like that chilling TIME MAG cover of NYC in flaming ruins with those ominous words; THE END?) as mankind is frightfully defeated by the winged monsters.  Can't win em' all, boys.Wouldn't DRAG WARS have been a little more engrossing than this otherwise insipid TV-movie that only boasted fleeting moments of real action and tension?  No?  Then quit reading this.  Also, speaking of dragons, WHERE THE HELL WERE THEY?  Off on an extended lunch break?  All I can recall seeing were something like birds in the distance.  How's that for threatening and terrifying?  I bet you had a hard time falling asleep later that night. I did; furiously tripping on the time, money and naive desire I beautifully wasted on this putrid mess, but mostly thinking about the far, far (where have we heard that one before?) greater film that REIGN OF BURN could have been. Looks like the LOST OPPORTUNITY is here to stay.  Oh well - DUH! Kinda makes you wish the dragons would torch out Hollywood and all of its vapid Yuppie Cinema.  Better run and take cover.PREQUEL, ANYONE? "},{"Title":"Slow film but Mcconaughey and Bale save it","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a bad film it's just not as good as director Rob Bowman could have made it. The trailer of the film pretty much gives the away the plot but in an over the top B movie performance Matthew McConaughey provides laughs as the likeable lead. Christan Bale also contuines to show promise in the second male lead. Even though the film has some good action sequences it's very slow and Bowman is capable of better. "},{"Title":"Good visuals, but...","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Nothing in 'Reign of Fire' does make any sense. Now I have said that we can talk about other things. The story to begin with. Young boy Quinn discovers a dragon in a shaft in London. The dragons take over the world and humans destroy the world with nuclear weapons trying to kill the dragons. We go to the year 2020. Quinn (now played by Christian Bale) is not so young anymore. He is the leader of a group of survivors. They try not to give the dragons any food (themselves) so they will starve to death. Then Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) arrives with his group. Where Quinn is more of a talker Van Zan is the one who likes action, he is a dragon slayer. They do that with a helicopter, a very rare thing now. The pilot is Alex (Izabella Scorupco, Natalya from 'GoldenEye'). They have discovered that there is only one male who is fertilizing all the eggs produced by the females. This is the biggest flaw I guess but I wasn't going to say anything... So, the male must be killed. Basically this is the plot and all the sub-plots are clichs (differences between Quinn and Van Zan, the people that have to die in this kind of movie, and so on).So is there nothing good about this movie? Sure there is. I actually enjoyed all those clichs. I did that because the dragons look great, London in 2020 looks great, the acting is pretty good (McConaughey is a little annoying), the action is nice enough to be entertained and it is something I have not seen very often. May be you will enjoy it, I don't blame you if you don't. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Bad Ending...","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was actually a pretty cool movie, except for the ending.  We are just to assume that once they kill the male dragon that ALL the females just die?!  It doesn't make any sense, but whatever...the movie was good and it had Christian Bale in it which is great.  Although Matthew McConaughey was horribly casted, you can't be a Wedding Planner one minute and then some hardcore mercenary the next.  That is my review, take it or like it. ;-) "},{"Title":"post-apocalyptic story nicely done...","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At first I thought this wouldn't be good until I finally saw it.  I really liked how the dark mood stayed throughout the whole movie accompanied by nice action and special effects.  Matthew McConaughey(did I spell it right?) and Chrsitian Bale work good as the scruffy dragon slayers alongside the female lead who adds a spark of her own.  I would recommend this, it's even better that's it's PG-13 as it's on cable - meaning it'll come on in the daytime, Nice, dark, rugged science fiction flick "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Thankfully, this film was short enough not to waste too much of my time. To sum it up  McConaughey was okay.  The dragons (when they finally were seen) were okay.  The plot and most of the situations were ludicrous.The Brits held up in the castle as if the dragons would ignore them while they're starved enough to cannibalize.  The American soldiers somehow came over with tanks, personnel carriers, and a helicopter, even though their plane got attacked and wiped most of them out.  Skydivers who track for nearly 60 seconds from an altitude that should give them 10, maybe 12... okay, whatever.It's all just too ridiculous.  Generally, I can forgive a movie for one or two twists of reality (like the only-male theory when they started with one dragon), but there's one in every scene in this movie.4/10. "}{"Title":"Uhhhhhhhh!!!!!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If this movie had more dragons, it would of been excellent.All of the little stories in between are a little dry.It would of been nice to see everything the narrator said happened when the dragons first mutated.This would of made a wonderful movie.  I would of loved to see the dragons destroy America, England and the other countries.  It would of made a lot of difference for the future sequences.  It would of been a much more enjoyable movie after that.  "},{"Title":"It fails miserably!!!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For a film with two well-known Hollywood actors to end up being so bad is quite a surprise. Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey are doing their very best, but their acting simply can't lift this film from the very ashes of film production.It is a story lacking in all aspects of writing and it fails miserably in an attempt to get our attention. The visual effects really suck and to show shades of horrible dragons nearly all the way through the film just isn't good enough.The ending was horrible and could've used a lot more work.I would give it 2 / 10 because it does try its best to be better than other recent dragon films - even though it never got close to any of them... "},{"Title":"An action hero for the future!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is extremely thin. The story has holes. And the general acting performances are pretty weak. Except for one man Matthew McConaughey gives a mighty performance as the American dragon slayer, Van Zan. He is brilliant in this movie! Not only has he been pumping enough iron to build a 32 story building, but with his constant snarling and rusty voice he is the perfect action hero for the future. In a world with too many boring wannabe action movies that tones down the action in order to put a PG-13 sticker on their posters, we need men like McConaughey. I say Give the man an Academy Award and put him the next Triple X movie(Instead of that wimp Vin Diesel). Watch this movie because of McConaughey. He is brutally funny.  "},{"Title":"Awful film that never picks up","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  REIGN OF FIRE (2002) looked promising from the hype and trailers produced before the film. But as I sat in the theatre watching I was constantly trying to stay awake. The movie begins slowly, moves at an extremely slow pace, and ends in the same slow manner. The trailer showed intense action and fireballs throughout.. but what we end up with is a fight between a struggling nomadic leader and a gang of bandits. No, not with guns, only with words and a short fist fight. I would not reccomend this movie to anyone at all. If you're looking for non-stop action rent Platoon or xXx, this is an action movie wasted with melodrama and cheap thrills.*1/2 "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, and did I mention...Horrible?","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film could have been good. It had a semi-OK story line, some good, well known actors, but it did not live up to what I expected. Firstly, the lack of colour really started to bug me about half way through. You see lots of fire, LOTS of fire, red, grey, black, but no green. No yellow. No colour that was even remotely cheerful. I had to stop it and go outside just to calm my eyes down. The acting was OK...Nobody's performance really stuck out to me, though. I also don't get parts of the science fiction part. If you kill the Master Dragon, they all die??? How does that work? Are all the dragons males except for the Master? But then how do dragons keep reproducing in mass numbers? Huh? Huh? It reminds me of the plot in The Faculty. The special effects were only so-so. The dragons looked pretty darn cheap. Even the dragon in Harry Potter looked more realistic. All in all, this movie could have been waaaaaaaay better. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"6/10","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess on the whole it's okay, I was expecting a huge FX fest but well it's not and for the story it doesn't need to be and they get away with it. The problem I had was you didn't get much of a feeling of how huge the scale of the attack was. A very gray and dull screen makes the fire really stand out which I liked. For the ending I thought we'd get all the budget with a huge blow out but no. Bale is a top notch actor and I hope he really makes it to the top. "},{"Title":"It works","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not easy to please, especially when it comes to dragons, but I had total suspension of disbelief with regard to the dragons in Reign Of Fire. The story had a few holes, but overall, a very good movie with excellent special effects and some great action.  I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys sci-fi or fantasy, or just likes a good action flick. "},{"Title":"Great concept, but poorly spun - 5 of 10","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really wanted this movie to be better, but I guess I hold dragons in higher regard and expect more sophistication from a film that employs them.  At the same time, I guess one can't really do much with an hour and a half film, either.  Given that, the special effects were decent and some of the action sequences were entertaining.  Matt had flashes of 'okayness', but definitely not his best role.  I'll give it a 5 for the idea, effects and action, but don't expect much else. "},{"Title":"Sorry, this isn't an Merchant Ivory film...","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love post-apocalyptic movies (and no, not the cheesy 'Left Behind' series) but, watching people struggle in a world that's been been ravaged for whatever reason.  I think 'Reign of Fire' is an original twist on an old storyline, but it is original if nothing else (how many post-apocalyptic dragon movies can you think of?).This film is what they call a 'popcorn' film, because it's pure entertainment and because of that some people simply can't enjoy it.  If you're looking for deep meaning, go see a over-acted, stiff and uptight British film with tons (or sorry... kilograms) of deep meaning and an emotionless void you can swim in for three hours (sometimes four).  Yawwwwnnnnn.....  'Reign of Fire' will never live up to some peoples expectations, but who the hell cares?Back to the dragons.... Sorry if there's only two (I actually think there's more), but the main story is about survival of the fittest and not necessarily how many dragons can fill the screen.  The acting is hammy for the most part, but again I haven't seen a post-apocalyptic film with anything else (sorry Mad Max.. of which I'm a big fan).  So, the Americans roll in to save the day (kind of brings back memories of WWII) and some very cheeseball machismo pours off Matthew M. like melted butter on a stack of nice, American pancakes, it all adds to the experience.  What else would you expect?  (Refer to the last line of the 2nd paragraph).  I thought all in all it was a good film for the genre, par for the acting and some excellent special effects, so unlike some others out there who think a good film is one that has subtitles, click the 'subtitle' button on your DVD remote and choose either French, Spanish or Portugese and watch it that way if it will make it more enjoyable.  I give it 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but among the best of post-apocalyptic action thrillers.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Set in the near future, Reign of Fire is the latest film among the growing genre of post-apocalyptic action thrillers. Compared to other films of this type, it ranks somewhere between the Road Warrior/Mad Max series and The Postman. The story begins with a young Quinn discovering a hidden cave in a newly-renovated section of the London Underground - then stumbling upon a fire-breathing dragon which has been trapped there for eons. Unfortunately, no explanation is given as to the origins of the dragon but suffice to say that the dragon emerges from his slumber, kills Quinn's mother (a wasted cameo appearance by Alice Krige), then begins to terrorize the world. Skipping the worldwide destruction which ensues, the film next jumps 12 years in the future and shows a grown-up Quinn (played capably by Christian Bale) leading a rag-tag group of survivors who live in relative peace in northern England. The dragons, however, have multiplied a thousand-fold, and now dominate the earth. At this point, Matthew McConaughey enters as the robust leader of a group of American dragon-slayers. Again, it is best not to think too hard about how a group of Americans ended up in England in such a chaotic world - although it would have been interesting to actually see how they did it, based upon their explanation of it in the film. In any case, from this point forward, the film's action really picks up and, at times, is very compelling. In retrospect, I wish the point of view for the entire film had been from the perspective of the Van Zan character (McConaughey), as he actually tends to steal the movie away from the Quinn character. Rob Bowman's direction of `Reign of Fire is well done, really, considering that he began as a regular director of several X-Files episodes, as well as the X-Files movie. In fact, the entire film has a certain dark eerieness about it which looks not unlike an extended episode of that now-defunct series. The effects are well done, too, although too limited in their scope. We see the flying dragons from time to time, and they do look convincing. What is missing, however, is the context of how destructive the dragons are. We see only the results of their destruction in brief, panoramic CGI views of a destroyed London - nothing more. If only this film had had a bigger budget, we could have seen more backstory about the dragons, but alas, this is missing. Obviously, viewers should NOT go into Reign of Fire looking for an Oscar winner - and WITH a healthy dose of suspension-of-disbelief - but given those parameters, it can be quite entertaining. "}{"Title":"Bit short","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I seen the trailer for this fillm I expected it to be loaded with action and dragons but to my dissapointment it wasn't. Ok you see a few dragons and get a battle with a dragon at the end but thats about it. As for decent action there is only one occassion where this can be seen. I would also say that it is far too short, it only lasts what and hour and a half where it could have easily been streteched to 2hrs at least with maybe showing van Zan killing his first dragon or whatever. Apart from these flaws I do actaully think this is a decent film, well worth viewing. Overall I give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"Decent, but wastes its potential","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire *could* have been an excellent movie, but as it stands, it's only decent.What we have here? An excellent, not quite often seen premise and overall not that bad idea, and excellent special effects to supplement that. And then they slap a boring, ordinary plot and bad logic on top of that. Oh dear.The plot definitely could have been better - it really doesn't take that much brainwork to guess the ending. It starts nicely enough, no problem with that, but once the Great Plan to Rescue Everybody starts... sheesh. the latter half of the movie is very very ordinary. In the beginning, the transition to the opening to the main plot is rather sketchy and is probably the most potential-wasting part after the ending. Then there were some things about ecology and biology that didn't make too much sense. And Americans who didn't make whole lot of sense either, of course.But even after all this stuff, I *still* thought the movie was neat enough. The movie was, even with its ordinary plot, surprisingly watchable. The bad parts didn't annoy me, they sometimes managed to amuse, which is always a good sign in my book... The setting is still fairly interesting.If you're not expecting a great movie, it's definitely a good way to waste one and half hours. If you're expecting the sci-fi movie of the century, stay *far* away.Wasn't sure whether this was 7/10 or 8/10. Settled for 7.5 and rounded that up just because I like dragon movies in general.  "},{"Title":"Man what a disappointment...but fair.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Was hoping this would be great -- it wasn't. Had a good premise....but they obviously spent way more time on the awesome special effects than the ridiculous plot and lack of characterization. Also, what the hell is up with the trailer, it says London, 2084 --- the movie starts in 2008 and takes place mostly then and then in 2020, never does it make it even close to 2084. Matthew McCaughnehey has some proud moments showing off the baby blues and his inner sadness and Christian Bale does a great job sounding incomprehensible using some form of English that's somehow become so foreign by 2020 that even the English don't seem to know what the heck he's saying. The Bond woman Isabella Scorpio (whatever) looks like she aged about 20 years in less than 10 and isn't given much to do other than fly the one helicopter left in the world that apparently runs on water rather than gas since it's flying all through most of the film.  Great special effects though, the only reason to really see it. POSSIBLE SPOILER What was up with that ending too? 3 years later 1 million of them all kind of just up and died since they were females? HUH? 6 out of 10. Had a few good laughs, mostly at the ridiculousness of the story -- special effect were great. Big disappointment, was looking forward to this one. C- "},{"Title":"I'm really trying hard to find anything good about this movie...","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was in the video shop last night and the guy behind the counter was getting pretty annoyed as he wanted to close up... so I just grabbed this film and went.Stupid mistake.**Spoilers - although there is nothing to spoil***Let's just go over a couple of the problems with this film shall we?1) The most hammy acting ever, which is a shame because I love some of Christian Bale's previous movies. That said, h's probably one of the best of a bad bunch.2) How utterly unoriginal to have smokey blue backlighting CONTINUALLY throughout this film (except of course in the ultra happy ending when the sun comes out, just to let you know everything is going to be OK). We all know it is post-war! We don't need to be reminded by having a set that looks like it came out of the opening scene of Terminator 2.3) The Americans - how bloody Hollywood-y is it to have the Americans roll in in tanks and try and save he world. Ugh. (Although their attempts at doing it, as I'll point out later, are so pathetically futile it's actually funny).4) They came up with what might be the stupidist action sequence ever, ever. Jump out of a helicopter (which seems to be impossibly high to start with and obviusly runs on invisible aviation fuel) and try to catch the dragon with - wait for it - a net. Yup. Three men, without parachutes, seem to think that to kill one of 100,000 dragons, it is perfectly fine to kill yourself by jumping out of a helicopter and shot a net in front of you through the clouds, in the hope that it will catch the dragon. And if you miss the dragon? Well... err... I guess you're screwed and at least you died like a man! The American Way!And then there was something about jumping on a motorbike and driving very fast so you can lure the dragon into the path of someone with a homemade harpoon to kill the dragon instantly. Why they didn't do this before is something only they will know...5) The male just happens to be in London, only 60 miles away, and for some reason killing him instantly makes all the other dragons go away. Or so it seemed.6) The male dragon had so many chances to kill the British guy... how convenient that he didn't.7) The Americans really did love launching themselves from high objects. They did it again with an axe at the end. Why?!8) The most clunky storyline ever. Anyone with an IQ of about 40 could have been seen through this film.9) Nothing in the air for 20 years but luckily they had a helicopter pad.10) Lock and Load!!!! He's on our tail!!!! We've been watching too many action films!!!11) Hollywood owes me 3. "},{"Title":"stooooopid (contains one or two small spoilerettes).","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Another &#145;I meant to see this at the cinema, but never got round to it' movie. You know the ones. Men in Black II, Resident Evil, the kind of films that pique your curiosity enough to think that you would like to see them, but not enough to get off your arse and into the theatre. And you always get them on video and think &#145;god that was lame. Im glad I didn't bother going to see that'. Funnily enough, although Reign of Fire was kind of lame, I enjoyed it far more than I thought I was going to. The films main problem is that hoary old issue of suspension of disbelief. You just find yourself saying `yeah, right' too many times to immerse yourself in the filmic experience. (spoilers ahoy) Why did the best brains in the world not figure out something that a chopper pilot could? How could a whole species of millions sprout from a single male dragon? How did he spread his seed all over the world? Where did the female dragons come from if the first and only dragon was male? I could go on and if you watch this movie, you will too. It just seems that a whole heap of the films plot was left on the editing floor.However, what is left is a decent bit of action hokum. Bales weird cockney accent is suitably gruff and Matthew McGarnacle is (unintentionally) hilarious as Van Zan. The special effects are used fairly sparingly, but are very good. The story itself is reasonably inventive and the dialogue was suitably anglicised.Overall, not surprisingly considering the hideous bashing it took on release, ROF is a pretty underrated popcorner. It is fun and a decent excuse to sit back and turn your brain off. Although I had very high hopes for this (all the &#145;lack of action' criticisms wrongly led to me believing it would be significantly more cerbral) I was only moderately let down.Oh yeah. It has the best star wars joke I have seen in a veeeeeeeery long time.  "},{"Title":"Some nice special effects shots contributes to making the story somewhat entertaining","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" *possible spoilers*In a dark future dragons rule the world, and mankind are on the verge of destruction. When the dragons woke up from their sleep and started setting the world on fire, men took shelter wherever they could, hoping to survive.The story is set outside London where we meet a group of people lead by Quinn (Christian Bale), and get an insight in their lives and their fight against the dragons. One day Van Zan (Matthew McConnaughey) and his men turns up intruding their sheltered lives. He claims to be a dragon killer and seeks help from Quinn to rid the world of dragons.*end of spoilers*It's an action movie packed with nice effects, and for the action freaks there will be many favorable moments. As many other movies in the same genre it lacks a good and intriguing story. You don't need 180 in I.Q. to know what's going to happen next. It's painfully predictable. But in the movie's defense, I doubt that it will claim to be the sharpest tool in the shed when it comes to the storyline. On the contrary I'm sure the point of the movie was not be thought provoking. The purpose was probably just entertainment. And they barely succeeded. I didn't mind watching the movie, nor would I have minded not watching it if it weren't for a couple of really beautiful special effects shots.It'll probably entertain someone and annoy someone. Myself find it very average.Rating 4/10yvind Holen "},{"Title":"Should have been INDEPENDENCE DRAGON aka WAR OF THE DRAGONS","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why is it that Hollywood today is so obsessed with producing so many MISSED OPPORTUNITIES?This so-so enterprise begins with a compelling opening scene (reminiscent of the beginning of Five Million Years to Earth - a highly recommended Science-Fiction classic)  In an underground excavation site in London, a dragon is unearthed after millions of years of slumber, and escapes.  So far, promising.THEN, for whatever stupid reason (lazy screenwriting, not fully up to the occasion or just rush job), the director immediately cuts to newspaper clippings with voiceover, telling how hordes of more dragons have destroyed all civilization and wiped-out most of mankind.  STOP!  CUT!Let's rewind a moment and allow me to ask a really dumbquestion  HOW COME THAT WASN'T THE STORY?  Doesn't sound too dull to me. Isn't that what the poster ads conveyed? Isn't that what most of us expected?  Isn't THAT what brings in TONS OF CASH!!!  Instead we get stuck with this so-so Cable TV-like movie that more resembles a third or fourth faded sequal (after the original producers have moved to Paradise Isle)  REIGN OF BURN.Wouldn't it had been suspenseful to have seen what happened right after the first dragon escaped from its dark lair hibernation?  Then we'd see where all the others came from (O.K. So we must indulge some pseudo movie science here.  I'm not Einstein), and how they start to launch their massive attacks against the world (they must also possess great intelligence - GO! DRAGONS! GO! KICK MANKINDS BUTT FOR WHAT HE'S DONE TO THE WORLD - AND ESPECIALLY TO DRAGON MOVIES!  GET YOUR DRAGON UNION TOGETHER, PRONTO!).  Those ominously creepy newspaper clippings Dragon Sitings Confirmed and that teasing TIME magazine cover illustrating NYC in flames - THE END?.A group, consisting of the main characters, try to escape as the world burns.  Then the shocking revelation when the scientists realize it was the predatory fire-breathers that annhiliated the dinosaurs.  OH!-OH!  Imagine a surreal flashback that actually SHOWS THIS instead of just mentioning it in passing.  Then, the shocking crucial scenes when the militaries are not only unable to stop them, but also end up succumbing to the dragons' global devastation.The story frightfully concludes with the characters tense and terrifying flight to imagined safety, towards that castle in the country miles from London, as they hear radio reports telling of the final destruction of all life on Earth.  (Terrifying eerie montage and gruesome sounds would work really effectively at this shattering climax).We are left with the disturbing mystery as to what their future, if any, for will be, as the ominous sounds of the dragons, who know rule the Earth, loom on the dark horizon.FADE OUT  (Where my million dollar paycheck?)(Pity that Hollywood is so scared of downbeat and profound ambiguous endings.  That's what they're suppose to do, aren't they?  The 5O's through the late seventies, we had filmmakers and producers who had the balls to take some gutsy risks.  Isn't that what the creative arts is all about?)Isn't THAT, essentially, what great B-plus classics are made of?  I'd stand all night out in the rain to be the first in line on opening day (wouldn't you?) - and I usually don't do crazy things like that.  (Do you?)  And who cares if it isn't an Oscar magnet, won't garnish any Pauline Kael awards (I'm not moaning) or be honored at any Scientific Perfectionist Conventions. Would that be the end-of-the-world?Anyways, I had to propose INDEPENDENCE DRAGON, for I felt, in all brutal honesty, and from all my nightmarish screenwriting struggles, that WAR OF THE DRAGONS (aka AS THE WORLD BURNS) would have truly rocked and delivered - and made you later trip on THE END!This would be a REAL REIGN OF FIRE.  I welcome real responses.Prequel, Anyone?P.S.  I wasn't that keen on INDEPENDENCE DAY, which was another wasted opportunity.  Talk about tiresome trends. "},{"Title":"Dull.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *spoilers*I never really expected much from this movie, but when my sister rented it I decided to sit down and give it a chance. What a load of rubbish. Here's why* At the beginning it jumped about 10 years with no/little explanation. One minute they find a dragon, next frame there are about 30 people left living in random castle in a burned out world. Er, bit of a plot jump there.* You didn't care about the characters. You never felt as though you got to know them, I didn't particularly like them and found myself thinking I don't really care if they live or die.* You barely see any dragons.* Of all the thousands and thousands of dragons that have taken over the world there is only ONE daddy dragon who supposedly has a busy schedule flying all over the world fertilizing eggs (it's lucky they found him at home then really...)* The Americans flew in and saved the day. Again. Can the British not do anything on their own?* If all they had to do was shoot the dragon with an arrow why did they need to throw three men out of a chopper? Just shoot him with the arrow then...* Why were they not suffering the after affects of nuclear war?* What was the point of that boy that Quin adopted? There was no point to his character.* When they were killing the daddy dragon where were all the others that had swarmed London?* Why did they let a small boy go to an underground building site (without a hard-hat) and then send him in first to check out a new hole?* What the hell was that last line? Pur-lease.* When fruit picking why did they not wear fire-proof clothing like the ones the others arrived in. That would make sense.* The fact that these small group of survivors figured out that there had to be one male; kill him and they are no more. (which in itself is ridiculous and reminds you a little of 'Aliens' no?) No scientists in the world could figure this out before they nucked the place? They were the only ones to piece that together...* The acting talents were wasted.The only part I did enjoy was the 'Star Wars' part but that really didn't compensate. It seems such a shame. The idea was a good one, if only they could have thought of a plot to go with it. "},{"Title":"very boring...","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw the trailer first, and some commercial, and I thought this can be a good movie, but unfortunate this movie is everything except a good...The special effects are good, the idea for the story too, the actors are good too, but the whole movie is completely wrong. A very bad directing lead us to very law performance. As I said before, the special effects are good, but there are to few...After a good original starting story, the ending is so stupid, two-three people kill the Queen of beasts, and everything is over. More or less, it looks like movie is just an introducing for the brand new video game...At the end, I asked myself why I spend time and money on it...I can give just three of ten to this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Damp Squib","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  MINOR PLOT SPOILERSI have a soft spot for any film set in post-apocalyptic Britain, mainly because it's closer to home and therefore carries a greater emotional impact than seeing Washington DC or New York in flames. Anyone who remembers 'Dr Who' and the Daleks roaming around London will get a good idea of what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, there hasn't exactly been an overabundance of post-apocalypse-Britain films in the last decade or so. Then, like the proverbial buses, two come along at once. Last year saw the arrival of the excellent '28 Days Later.', a film which featured stunning shots of a deserted London, some genuine scares, and a decent (if unoriginal) B-movie zombie style plot. 2002 also saw the arrival of 'Reign of Fire', a film which, like '28 Days', features stunning shots of a deserted London. but, sadly, not much else. Dragons this time, not zombies, or even Daleks, although inclusion of either of the last two elements might have made the film at least watchable.Right from the start it is embarrassingly clear that very little thought went into this film. First we've got to endure the dodgy Australo-Cockney accents in the lame prologue which sets up the denouement in a way that is so ridiculously obvious you think 'they can't have given away the ending already!' Oh, but they have! Now you've just got to sit through the next hour and a half of meaningless drivel before we get to see the predictable finale. For those who still aren't convinced of this film's lack of worth, what follows will hopefully make it abundantly clear.Rather than let the audience work out for themselves that the release of the dragons in the prologue caused the inevitable downfall of civilisation as we know it, we are 'shown' what happened through the ultra-cliched device of news clips and tattered newspapers. Don't worry about overstretching your brains too much in trying to work out the plot or complex relations between the characters either. There's none of that here. However, just in case you think I'm being unduly harsh and critical, the film's not all bad (well, not quite).The main chunk of the film is set in a 'Mad Max'-style hideout in the Northumberland countryside. There a band of survivors, led by Quinn (played adequately by Christian Bale) eke out a meagre living while trying to dodge dragons in an impressive, ash-blasted landscape. The colour-drained nature of these scenes is particularly striking, and the set is suitably post-apocalyptic/medieval in design. There are some nice touches, like Quinn and his Scottish buddy Creedy (don't worry about having to tax any brain cells discerning the complex nature of the relationship between these two - Creedy makes it quite clear when he says `I'm your best friend' at the start of the film) performing part of the 'Empire Strikes Back' as a play for the kids in the camp. After a minor dragon attack (complete with eye-catching CGI dragon) the Americans arrive (in tanks, natch) led by the fearsome Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey). McConaughey looks unusually buff, what with his shaved head, rippling biceps, and wiry beard. However, he plays possibly the most distressingly bad character in the film. I can only guess that the director wanted Van Zan to be 'on the verge of madness'. What we get is McConaughey overacting badly staring wild-eyed, running around grunting, and calling Quinn's band of survivors `pitiful'. Still, he effortlessly manages to steal practically every single scene since many of the other characters are pathetically two-dimensional.Van Zan's arrival is presumably supposed to underline the tensions in Quinn's nice little survivor commune. Unfortunately, most of the characters are so weak and undeveloped at this point that I cared little for this aspect of the film. In fact, with hindsight it seems more likely that the director was just itching to get into a bit of dragon killing action. Here are the Americans! They'll show us how it's done! What follows is one of the most unbelievably contrived action sequences I have ever seen. In order to 'catch the dragon' Van Zan's flunkies must apparently use a helicopter, three guys on motorbikes, three guys in the helicopter who skydive OUT of the helicopter and fly around at 500 mph trying to `get a lock' and fire a net at the dragon, and Van Zan himself who sits around barking orders at everyone and fires a big harpoon. Lines like `he's on my tail' and `lock and load' are thrown around without a second thought. Why they even bothered with all of this guff is never explained, especially when, at the end of the film, it is revealed that a simple crossbow and an exploding bolt can bring down the uber-dragon himself.These dragon-killing antics impress the rest of the survivors so much that most of them agree to leave their families and follow the charismatic Van Zan down the road to London to kill the male uber-dragon who fertilises the female dragons' eggs. Just in case we haven't quite grasped this utterly banal plot device, the script-writers make it spirit-crushingly clear - kill the male dragon and there're no more dragons left! Ohhhh, right, I get it.With the rest of the film more or less mapped out, it proceeds from point A to point B with little to no excitement to plug the gap. There's an unbearably feeble sub-plot featuring Quinn's 'son' Jared (some downright awful acting by Scott James Moutter), and a barely-hinted-at love interest for Quinn in the form of Alex (Izabella Scorupco) - one of Van Zan's crew. As a (very) mindless action-flick I suppose this film passes the time. But why bother when the same elements have been done better a thousand times before in films like 'Predator', 'Alien(s)', 'Pitch Black', or the aforementioned '28 Days Later.'. If there are any sparks of excitement and originality to be found in this film, there certainly isn't enough to start a fire. "}{"Title":"Bad chemistry, horrible timeline confusions.  Ruin this movie.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (spoilers)I was a bit apprehensive about watching this movie because, if you are a big fan of dragons.  Usually dragons are quite nice.  This takes the Alien approach.First hint of trouble was the timeline confusion.  The trailer mentions it's 2084.  Yet, Quinn's mother dies around 2010.  And most of the story takes place in the 2020's.  So I don't see the 2084 connection.Other problem is that the synopsis says he's mother died yet his love interest is still alive.  What love interest?  If I had never read that, I would have consider her a weak friend.  They didn't even kiss in the movie.The only scene I was left in awe of was the scene of Thames.  You don't see them at first and then they rustle.  Woah.  that was awesome.But aside from that the movie is silly.The military destroyed us.  Yeah we have to really on them until they too learn that lesson.  o_O  Go play the video game instead.  That way.  You can play as a dragon. )5/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 3/10 "},{"Title":"Good escapism...but I didn't like the accents","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was good.  The only thing I didn't care for was the cockney accent that Christian Bale used.  His character didn't have the depth required of an actor of Bale's skill.  The accent was too thick and half of what he said I could not understand.  Matt M was good in this role as the rogue militant man with a CREW CUT.  He sports his usual Texan accent.The plot is simple....and the acting is so so.  The DRAGONS were cool but didn't have nearly enough screentime.  As far as this movie goes, it's good.  I wouldn't BUY it because a 2nd viewing would be boring.  However, I will give this a 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Reign of terror (um, fire) - Propaganda for the people! =)","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I CAN'T BELIEVE MY EYES!This movie is nothing but political propaganda. Every single scene/event has its little brainwashing underlying meaning. And no, I'm not paranoid. I'm not even committed to this political matter. I just thought I'd let you know what this is really about...The purpose is, of course, to change the public opinion about The war on terror, and the Iraq issue in particular. I'll outline the plotThe Europeans are hiding in their caverns from the fearful dragons. The dragons terrorize the world - yes, they use napalm. At least the brave and skilled Americans are doing something(!). They're fighting back. The Americans are dragon slayers, and they are hunting the dragon leader (read Sadam). He's the biggest and cruelest of them all; He's even eating those of his own.Although the Europeans are sceptical at first, they take the right decision and join the Americans. The final fight takes place in a gutted London (You haven't forgotten WW2, have you?). They kill the dragon and live happily ever after.I'm sick of this.   "},{"Title":"Someone should cast this on to the fire!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In a post apocalyptic future(another)the earth is taken by a group of fire eating dragons,nukes are fired,etc.The dragons ate the ashes of what they burn and there s only one male dragon,so once the male is killed they become extinct.Knowing this a group of individuals set up on a quest to kill the dragon.Cool eh?NO.SADLY.The movie has a lot of talking,and almost no action,the atmosphere is always grayish and anoying,the characters themselves are anoying,the only woman that talks is the main one,and dragons are easily killed with spears. Ask yourself,if theyre killed with spears why nuke the whole world trying to destroy them? The act of killing the dragons is more like an act of suicide,the characters know the male dragon s location and cross oceans in 10 minutes flying on a chopper,the dragons are able to melt Van Zant s tanks but arent able to melt Quincy s trucks.Everyone seems to be living back in the dark ages and starving but still they have gas for their tanks and bikes,and there s no missiles on the chopper. I guess you cant expect much from a guy that spent almost his entire lifetime directing x files episodes.My council for the director,retire,since your movies are horrible and x files is over,this one should be cast on the fire. "},{"Title":"very interesting.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movies plot. It was quite interesting. It is about winged, scaly Dragons that are unleashed upon the world, destroying every thing that gets in there way. Very interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable (mild spoilers)","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So I'm watching Reign of Fire and I can't believe how terrible this movie is. It's unwatchable. What are Matthew and Christian doing in this disaster? The dialogue, whenever I can make sense of it, is ridiculous. The direction is muddled in the extreme. The look of the film is ugly. There's no story. I can't believe how the film deals with the dragons taking over the world it takes place during the opening credits and we only see newspaper headlines, explosions, someone writing a journal and shots of the earth from space. That's it?The story has so many holes that it's pointless to even mention them. The one big glaring mistake though is how the dragons reproduce. With one male dragon who fertilizes the eggs of the female dragons. What, no baby dragons that are male? And what happens to all the female dragons at the end? This movie doesn't make any sense.The dragons are well made but it's not worth watching ROF just for them. It's a complete mess. "},{"Title":"boooooooooooooooooooooooo","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was so promising yet so horrible the plot was dead the characters were unconvincing(this was very disappointing considering that Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey are to very capable actors).The story simply didn't follow the standard conventions that come with good story telling. Sometimes not following these conventions can make for a very unique and interesting film, but in this case it just amounted to a pile of crap.  "},{"Title":"I've Seen Worse","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is very probable that this film will cause extreme and different reactions. Some will throw it in the waste basket of bad apocaplypse music, other may turn it into a cult. I did not find that bad this Kevin Costner 'after-the-end-of-the-world' -like movie. Well done, not too long, and not too pretentious, it has effects that catch the eyes, it is well acted, and quite logical - of course if you accept the science-fiction conventions. 8/10 on my personal scale. You will enjoy it if you are not looking for big art, but just for good fictional entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire Ice Cold","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're at the video store and you stroll across this interesting box cover (you're thinking to yourself, cool, about post apocolyptic dragons, and I like how the box cover is fiery!)by all means keep strolling!  This is warning that you should heed.  This movie is so nonsensical and utterly horrible, you'll feel like this is a punishment for something bad you did in a previous life.  Brief summary; beware if you don't want to know Dragons are found in the year 2000 living underground, and by 2020 they've taken over the world.  Dirty people live is caves and they fly around and try to eat them.    Ridiculous theory evolves regarding the sex of the dragons, and there's lots of ash, soot and dirt.  I feel bad for Christian Bale, he deserves much better than this, and I guess Matthew McConaughey got lucky with the very underrated Frailty.  One of the year's worst, nothing redeeming about it, even the computer generated dragons look fake.  "},{"Title":"What a snorer!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What kind of movie is Reign of Fire?  Trash?  No, worse than that. Cheap-looking trash?  Worse even than that.  I never thought it would be possible to make such a trashy, cheap-looking, boring movie out of this outstanding premise Christain Bale and Matthew McConaughey fight giant flame breathing dragons in a post-apocalyptic warzone.  This movie had one solitary high point Bale and his buddy reenacting the Vader/Skywalker lightsaber battle from Empire Strikes Back in order to entertain orphans. Other than that, what a mess!  What a mess of a movie. "}{"Title":"Fairly enjoyable","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIn a Summer of films with little thought or imagination,ROF is at least slightly recommendable against all the other dross.The story is a little far-fetched and is kind of sketchy.One minute,everything is hunky dorey (except as far as I know,they don't send young children down mines nowadays) ,next thing you know,fire-breathing dragons have taken over the earth and there's a post-apocalyptic war going on.The dialogue is also kind of cliched and there are some stereotyped characters.It's still very nice to see a film that was at least an original idea,and that it's set in Britain means we're getting closer and closer to ultimate acceptance.The special effects are a recommendable bonus also.** "},{"Title":"Accent alert!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Christian Bale Don't bother.  Your English accent is awful!  It's not quite in the Val Kilmer class remember his South African accent in The Saint?, but it's cringetastic all the same.Bale, the leader of a group of British survivors trying to live through the reign of fire -- a bunch of fire breathing dragons that have taken over the world -- teams up with an unfeasibly large looking McConaughey, who is actually awful in his role as the American saving the day.Line of the filmThere's only one thing worse than dragons, and that's AmericansActually quite silly throughout, this was pretty much harmless and bad in similar portions.  Definitely don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire disappointed me.  It had the potential to be wonderful, a Mad Max with dragons - really a great conceit.  Unfortunately, other than that great plot premise, the movie went nowhere.  The acting was stilted, the script and plot minimal at best, and the effects uninteresting.  By 30 minutes into the movie, I just didn't care.  There were a few nice set pieces, but if you've seen the trailer, you've seen 90% of what's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Feast of stupidity","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You can take any 10 minutes of this movie and find there a new absurdity. I understand that most sci-fi movies have more fi than sci, but this one has no logic at all. I'm not talking about existence of dragons, I'm talking about people living tens of years under constant dragon fire and having everything they need out of thin air. I'm talking about dragons that defeated all world armies but can be killed with a small ballista. LOTS of things like that spoiled all the fun I could have watching really nicely designed dragons. "},{"Title":"No originality","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film played out like a cross between Road Warrior and The Postman with dragons. The sets are impressive as we see England in the future burnt out. But the whole thing is something that we have seen so many times in other films. When Matthew McConaughey shows up with his dragonslayers and then gets to show us how he kills them, its ludicrous. They use a helicopter and men jump out and glide to the ground while attracting the flying dragon so they can shoot a net at it. Of course they lose a few men easily. Why not try to lure the dragon to the ground and kill it there instead of jumping out of a helicopter? Of course the special effects are good but the whole thing is totally unimaginative in its approach. "},{"Title":"A bad film suffering from adequate science fiction talent","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Regretfully, this is a bad movie.  I love science fiction.  This film is obviously another attempt by film makers without science fiction credentials to make a science fiction film.That said, I enjoyed the dragons.  The special effects are good.  The sound, however, is also bad.  With a small loss of hearing that I have, I could not hear much of what was said between the mumbling of the actors and the balance of music and noise to voice.All together, I rate this as a 2, one step from the pits!  "},{"Title":"FLAME ON!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  REIGN OF FIRE (2002) *** Matthew McConaughey, Christian Bale, Isabella Scorupco, Gerard Butler, Scott James Moutter, David Kennedy, Alice Krige, Ben Thornton, Randall Carlton, Dougg Cockle, Duncan Keegan, Rory Keenan.  Special effects are the high mark in this high octane high concept sci-fi apocalyptic actioner fire-breathing dragons have annihilated mankind in the near future unleashing hell on earth and only a small band of British survivalists led by the one who unwittingly released the dormant monster responsible (Bale) - to be enlisted by an Ahab-like American mercenary (crazy as a foxed cue ball McConaughey) &#150; can end the horrors that be.  Visual pyrotechniques run rampant as well as the pulse-pounding adrenaline fueled by terror machinations at hand giving credence to a smartly strung together script by Gregg Chabot & Kevin Peterka and Matt Greenberg, taut direction by Rob Bowman and fantastic beasties thanks to viz wiz Richard R. Hoover.   "},{"Title":"Reign of Folly","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film should really be called Not Another Post-apocalyptic Rebirth of Humanity Movie. If you are looking for plot, character development, or adventure, you have come to the wrong place. Unfortunately, there is an interesting premise here, but a completely disappointing result. The character's relationships with their past, situations, and each other is wholly undeveloped. This causes little sympathy from the audience, the kiss of death if you wish to develop emotion. Emotion, like the characters, is haphazardly thrown in, seemingly at the last minute. There is also no folklore or story surrounding the dragons, just some action...and very little of it. The pacing is random leaving the audience either asleep or confused. It is a shame. Stories such as this should have mythic preportion, be well-scripted, harken back to legends....This is easily forgotten. "},{"Title":"Funny... but not intentionally","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is O.K. until Matthew McConaughey shows up.  From there on in the believability of the plot and performance go downhill, and the jingoism is almost unbearable. Christian Bale's acting is as good as any you'll find in a film starring mostly special effects.  McConaughey's attempt to make Van Zan a hard-as-nails All American Hero is laughable, literally.  In a scene where he chastices the community for celebrating after the slaying of a dragon, his line, Personally, you disgust me, drew more laughs from the audience than you hear at most comedies.  I'm not sure why Izabella Scorupco was cast in the role of an American helicopter pilot.  She does what she can with a part that she shouldn't have been in. If you're going to see this movie it should be because 1. You are a 7 year old boy who likes loud and violent movies 2. You feel like making fun of something 3. You want to go deaf  "},{"Title":"Good post-apocalyptic thriller.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just got home from a late showing of Reign Of Fire and I was pretty impressed. I thought it was a very new idea on the post-apocalyptic years and the action was good. The plot went smoothly. And I thoroughly enjoyed the ending, as well as the beginning, well..the whole movie! Tons of fun, so just go and not care about anything and just have fun watching this. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Boredom Reigns","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire has to be one of the worst movies I have seen recently. The quality of the film is such that you are left wondering whether the film makers didn't just give up half-way through, write it off as a loss, then release it anyway.  While the movie features competent acting by Christian Bale, who pulls off a remarkable performance given the otherwise shoddy quality of the film, Matthew McConaughey simply cashed his check and handed us the most laughable acting in an entirely laughable movie. His portrayal of a tough-talking, hard-boiled army sargent is 100% cliche, from the tattoos and shaved head to the ever-present cigar stub. I have been a fan of his past work, but McConaughey's most dramatic lines in RoF will evoke more chuckles for his hammed-up schtick than suspense.  As for Izabella Scorupco, I am simply bewildered as to why she was cast. There is no shortage of blonde American actresses, and the movie might have worked slightly better if the American helicopter pilot didn't speak with a Swedish accent.Enumerating the plot holes would reveal entirely to much of the plot (such as it is), so I will simply say that at the end, you will likely be scratching your head as to how everything concludes the way it does.  While I realize that RoF is not aiming to be a serious movie, certain mistakes are hardly forgivable even in an effects-driven summer B movie.In short, unless you really, really like dragons or Matthew McConaughey, skip Reign of Fire.  "},{"Title":"Oh, Dear Lord...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a bad, bad movie.  If you're going to make a movie where dragons awaken from an eons long sleep, and you set it in the near future, you need to have two things - there has to be full-bore action for the entire movie, and your tongue has to be firmly planted in your cheek.  At the end of the movie, I walked out stunned because I had the terrible realization that this movie takes itself seriously.There's some action in Reign of Fire, and some of it is cool (and the dragons are pretty nasty-looking), but there is nowhere near as much mindless action as was needed.  I'm trying to figure out a way to concisely discuss the many goofs and ridiculous aspects of this movie, but it is hurting my brain.  I'll mention one - twice it is mentioned that the dragons have poor vision during magic time - after the sun has set and before darkness falls.  That is the time they are most vulnerable.  And yet, at no point in the movie does this factor into anything.Oh God, I just spent 5 additional minutes thinking and writing about this movie.... "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  despite what the trailer or other reviews may say, this is definitely NOT a movie about dragons.  it is a boring, poorly written story about the marines (yes, the marines) in the future.  Oh, about the dragons?  there are exactly three (count 'em three!) dragons in the film - each with a total screen time of less than 2 minutes.  And yes, these dragons are incredible - but with such little screen time, they simply cannot compensate for this mess of a film.The plot is absolutely ridiculous, illogical and impossible to follow. Unfortunately there is so much non-dragon time on screen, that the viewer is forced into thinking about the plot. So this is neither a brainless monster flick, nor a well written movie.How insane is the plot?  Look at the first five minutes of David Lynch's Dune and realize that this makes more sense than any single scene in this scene..I can't even recommend this film as a rental when it gets to video.  The only potential use of this piece of celluloid could be as a recruiting film for the military.avoid this film at all costs... "},{"Title":"This is why Robert McKee is in business","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The crop of lousy movies just keeps growing. Like an under ripe vegetable, Reign of Fire WAS picked, packaged, and sold. Thank goodness not too many consumers bought the product. The premise of the story is something a teenager would dream up. The final draft&#x85;highly unpolished. Why then would several Zanucks attach their names to the project? Not even the popular actors in it could save this celluloid from the compost heap. Despite their talents, Bale mumbles and McConaughey's angry deer in headlights look begins to grate on the nerves after the third or fourth scene. If I had $60 mil to burn like the Zanucks, I'd send at least ONE family member to Robert McKee's Story Seminar so that he/she could critique and bounce a screenplay with some authority, or at least know when to let the screenwriter go and hire a seasoned screenwriter to write the final draft. "},{"Title":"Had some promise, but too contrived","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For many of us, one of the biggest turn offs a film can have is being too contrived.Take this film. It is about a modern apocalyptic world trying to slay dragons. Some of the film works.Most of it doesn't. The heavy dialects are impossible for an American to understand most of the time, so we guess at the dialog. The writing, characters, and incidents are all so contrived, that they actually detract from enjoying the film.First, the characters are mostly super young. Now, we know athletes are often over the hill at 35, but that is because of the drugs they take, and the mileage they get, that wouldn't exist in this kind of future world.Then, only leaders seem to be able to dodge fire and bullets. This is a very Republican ideal, that VIPs are superior, but this doesn't qualify to anyone who has been in the real world for more than a year.To say more about how contrived the film is would be to spoil it. The characters, as written, come across with more credibility than most movies, but that is about the only saving grace. "},{"Title":"In my top 10 list of the worst movies ever made","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie made absolutely no sense. First off, the plot was abysmal. The kid and his mom find the dragon buried underneath London and it kills everyone except for him. Okay, so far I can handle it. Then we get a super fast forwarded 18(?) years going by and we are told that a even with nukes and modern weapons nothing could stop the dragons and they killed off everything. Then we are treated to about an hour of pointless carnage and fighting in which a small group of national guard troops come to London and manage to kill one dragon before papa dragon kicks their asses and then destroys the last town/castle in England. Then three people and an explosive crossbow enter dragon infested London on a god awfully noisy helicopter and manage to kill the only male and save the world by themselves. If that makes sense to you, enjoy, but I want the time that this movie wasted back.EDIT Just thought I'd mention that I introduced this movie to my friends and we watch the highlights to get a good laugh. It is total trash, and, after reading my post over, I realized that I made it sound too good. There are no redeeming qualities except for the comedic elements which were not intended. I'm downgrading to a 1. "},{"Title":"They had a story but then..","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reign of Fire starts very good. They had a story, not that realistic but my imagination went far enough to believe it. They started nice, at the beginning it reminded me of movies such as Mad Max and Waterworld. But then... From the point where the Americans came lots of things such as a decent storyline, try to make a fantasy movie still a bit realistic, elements of the way they survived this horror were abandoned. They focused themselves on a very specific theme, action. A movie were they could do very much themes they chose action. And that's in my opinion a bad choiceThe environment and the special effects are very nice and a joy for the eye. Matthew Mc Conaughey is having a bad day and doesn't fit in his character. Christain Bail in contrary does put a great performance down, but is in my opinion due to the fact that his character is more believable than Matthews one.**/***** "},{"Title":"Absolute Rubbish","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe that I wasted my time watching this. It's a shame the dragons didn't get to the people who commissioned this before the cameras even started rolling.Okay, the SFX were quite good but that isn't everything - you need a vaguely plausible story to bind it all together and this story had holes big enough to fly a fleet of helicopters through. The tone was set from the opening five minutes - I mean, whoever would allow a young boy down a mine and then into a void without taking the necessary Health and Safety precautions. Whilst acknowledging that this is a fantasy film, it is supposed to be set in the real world to start with - so some adherence to real life would have not gone amiss.Take my advice and give this one a miss - even doing the laundry would be a better proposition!!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot believe that this movie has got the reviews it has so far. I guess there are people that want to appear to be pseudo-intellects and post these grandiose reviews of this movie. Suck. People, wake up and smell the garbage, this movie stinks! I hated this movie from the first retarded plot line, which didn't take long, to the very anti-climax. This film attacks the IQ of every halfway intelligent being on the face of this earth, and probably beyond. I realize that some movies don't make sense, yet are still enjoyable, however, this movie is not one of them. Not one scene in this crapfest makes any sense. Sure, the, acting is acceptable, but the dialog is horrible. Sure, the action is there, but it makes no sense. I could give many specific examples, but it's a waste of my time, trust me, instead of watching this movie, punch yourself in the sack, it will hurt less. I rate this travesty a 9, I would rather be punted in the balls, 9 times then watch this filth again. "},{"Title":"Dragons Crap","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If a dragon sees this movie, am sure it will hunt the cast and the director and crap on them. This movie is total humiliation of Dragon's vision. Bowman is horrible visionary. This movie is absolute waste of time if you watch it on TV during daytime, movie is all dark and what you can see is your bright wall reflecting on TV Screen. Even if you place TV in crooked angle to avoid such reflections, you won't be able to see if there is minimal diffusion of daylight around. "}{"Title":"Sucks ass when it should breath fire","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Another Summer, another rip-off. This adheres blindly to the Bruckheimer rob-'em-blind formula - come up with a cool concept (check), a great poster (check), a cool cast (not quite, but at least Bale tries), shoot it entirely through an unattractive unnatural lens filter that bleeds out selected colours (triple check), pay yourself a shitload of money and then resolutely refuse to deliver because by the time they find out that THERE ARE NO DRAGONS IN THE FILM, they'll have already handed over their cash. More pickpocket than movie, this flick is the Holy Grail of false advertising.Well, to be fair, there are a couple of dragons - in extreme long shot for a few frames at a time - but put end-to-end, their total footage is barely two minutes. Dragons destroy the world! So what do we see? Newspaper headlines (astonishingly, there are no dragons at all in the end-of-civilisation-as-we-know-it montage). Skydivers attack dragon! So what do we see? A lot of cranked-up shots of clouds. Dragon attacks castle! So what do we see? A couple of brief long shots before cutting to people running around in cellars while the hero rides back just in time to see it leaving. Are you detecting a pattern here?Instead, we get a non-script with a great back story (which, as is noted repeatedly here, would have made a much better film and has some pretty decent ideas in it) shot in a grotty disinterested fashion by a director who really doesn't seem to want to make a dragon movie at all. And as for the action scenes - what action scenes? Where the money went is anybody's guess, because it sure ain't on the screen rarely has anyone spent so much money making a movie look so cheap. And what's with the sound mix? Between the cast's mumbling and the 'atmospherics,' half the dialogue was almost completely inaudible.This could have been one of the coolest dragon flicks ever, but Bowman and co have ruined it for anyone else in the business with this dull, lifeless fire extinguisher of a movie. Still, maybe it's my own fault for ignoring the fact that Gerard Butler was in it - his presence in a movie is as much a guarantee of a stinker as Virginia Madsen's was in the 80s.See 'Dragonslayer' or even 'Dragonheart' instead - dragon movies which actually have dragons in them. If only this one could claim the same. Personally, I'd really, really like my money back.  "},{"Title":"An Adventure That Mixes the Apocalyptic Society of Mad Max and Waterworld with Dragons Nearby London","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In 2020, mankind is almost annihilated by dragons. Quinn Abercromby (Christian Bale) is the leader of a community of survivals living in a ruined castle nearby London. Denton Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) is the leader of an army composed by strong survivals that fight against dragons. They arrive to Quinn's castle asking for a secure resting place for a short time. Van Zan advises the survivals that all dragons his group has killed were female and they are searching for the male. They conclude it certainly would be living in London. Quinn will join Van Zan in this enterprise. The first point that called my attention in this movie were the muscles of Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey. Are these actors using steroids? The adventure mixes the apocalyptic society of Mad Max and Waterworld with dragons and entertains. The special effects work on DVD. My vote is seven.          "},{"Title":"Avoid the fire","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I've ever seen.  First of all, this thing dragged more than ever, almost put me to sleep on many occasions.  Second of all, the storyline.  They had something good, but they completely blew it.  It seems like there were thousands of dragons in the film, but it all ends when one die.  How can this happen?  What about the other dragons?  Sure, it was the father of them all dragon, and I understand him being gone is a momentum swing, but the other dragons still could and would've done more damage to the human race, and maybe could've wiped the humans out.  With the technology and resources limited, how can the human race win when they got their butts handed to them when they had advanced technology? (think Battlefield Earth) So please, do yourselves a favor and do not watch this film.  I've seen some horrible movies before, and this one is definitly up there.1 of 10 "},{"Title":"Fight fire with fire.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Rob Bowman directs this fantasy tale of postapocalyptic 2020 London where a survivalist(Christian Bale)reluctantly teams up with a military man(Matthew McConaughey)to slay fire-breathing dragons. Special effects make up for the story that drags. The fire-breathing dragons are cool. And the final showdown is worth sitting though till the end. Also featured areIzabella Scorupco, David Kennedy and Scott Moutter. If you have seen the previews...you've pretty well watched the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok,here's the scoop. Normally i can watch horrible movies and kind of like them but this...was truly awful. The worst acting i have ever seen, the plot has tons of holes,and not to mention the cheesy look like video game special effects.Are they speaking a British,a Scotish, or a Russian Accent? I mean this movie is really bad. I give it a 2/10. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  from the trailer we were promised dragons and action scene's but we get 2 dragons in the whole move and a load of people hiding in an old castle and this to the not so great acting and what do you getRAIN OF NOTHINGthe best way to describe the film is diabolically terrible "},{"Title":"Who makes this stuff....?","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw REIGN OF FIRE and one question came to me How much did this movie cost to make?  Millions upon millions I'm assuming.  Can't this money be funneled into more useful projects?  I'm not even saying that the budget of this film could have fed the population of a rather large third world country, I would never say that...never. Anyway...was there not one other single loftier script, another more talented filmmaker, an industrial film about seat belt safety, a test pattern that needed one more color that could have put this massive amount of money to better use? Can't the rotting husk of the American film industry see the folly in squandering untold sums on the likes of REIGN OF FIRE?At this point my tears are falling on the keyboard, much like the droplets of water used to quench the flames of murky CGI landscapes set ablaze by an unimpressive and dimly lit dragon in the not-to-distant future. And whose idea was it not to use H.R. Giger's dragon design? Giger's concept would have given this film at least one positive aspect. Looking back at this review, I guess REIGN OF FIRE raised more than one question in my mind...what a thought provoking film.   "},{"Title":"Remarkable that this film made it to theatres.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure, it's a silly movie. The real problem starts at the end of the movie... when it ends with as little suspense (or sense) as can be registered on a DVD. But as bad as it was, the movie takes a turn for the worse in the DVD's discussions with the director, who evidently thinks he has made a film for the ages. I wouldn't have thought so poorly of the film if the director would have recognized how crappy a job he actually did.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film with 2 other friends of mine. The most i have to say was it was horrible. This movie diserves a turkey (0 stars). The plot was the dumbest thin gin the world and it was just one of those America comes and saves the day films and no country is better. Horrible film in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I hope I never have to see a movie that is worse than this one in my life. I would leave if I did.  I could barely stay in the theater for this one. There were so many plot holes.  And even the visual effects are terrible. If you thought you liked this movie, think about what you saw, and if it makes you sick, than you are a normal person.Think, they claim that the dragons couldn't be killed by nukes, yet harpoons work?  They have a fire suit that protects them from the dragon, and they only use it once?  The dragons eat ash, yet they eat each other alive, yet the only thing that keeps them away is the smell of their own dead, which Quinn somehow knew without having ever seeing a dead dragon before. "}{"Title":"A pitiful film","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of fire is a desperate film where the scenario lost its way trying to convince us of the depth of the main characters. These dragons coming out from nobody knows where are really frightening, alas we do not see them much. The casting was somewhat wrong when choosing two actors who look as brothers Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale. I had difficulties to know who was who.It seems that the producers had a cash problem and could only create the survivors'residence. In a word, this film is not worth seeing. To see flying dragons, it is better to see and see again a wonderful film where the unique dragon is personified by Sean Connery Dragon Heart. . "},{"Title":"Boring and very bad movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so boring and the script is full of mistakes and stupidity. The end is really terrible. I've never seen Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey acting so badly. Only three things are ok in this movie  beautiful dragons (but really NOT extremely intelligent and NOT highly evolved!!), beautiful bodies (Bale and McConaughey spent hours and hours at the gym instead of thinking about their character), and beautiful post-apocalyptic landscapes (but we've already seen the same kind in other sci-fi movies)... So, you can avoid this Reign of Fire.  "},{"Title":"What did we do to deserve this film?","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've rarely seen so much nonsense as displayed in this film. The plot is a mixture of Mad Max 3 and Dragonheart but with all the good things thrown away. Because of the fact that the plot is downright stupid one would hope to see at least some good vfx, but there aren't any. The vfx supervisor obviously didn't trouble himself to care about proportions because the dragon's size varies through one scene from normal to huge and right back. Furthermore they fly in the mist most of the time so that you see nothing more than a shadow of a beast that flies like an airplane. But at least the desperation on the faces of the actors is convincing. Although I'm not sure if it's part of their role or just the financial desperation that must have made them take part in this nightmare. You're definitely better off spending your bucks on renting Mad Max and Dragonheart than seeing this movie in a theater. "},{"Title":"What a flop!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So boring that I literally fell asleep during the film.  Don't waste your time or money seeing this one.  Don't even bother to rent it.  If you really *need* to see it ... do yourself a favor and wait until it is showing on your local television network.  Yes, it was that bad. "},{"Title":"this movie was worse than 'vertical limit'","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel dumber for just having watched this movie.  It's not the $7 that I miss, I want the two hours of my life back.  If you enter the theater, then you are already making a conscious decision to accept the existence of dragons -- I know this.  However, even with my already expanded limits, there were still scenes that were highly unbelieveable as well as major plot supports that were very weak at best.  Don't waste your time with this movie.  I thought I had lowered the bar to its extreme with 'vertical limit' and the 'mummy' movies -- but I was wrong. "},{"Title":"BURN Reign of Fire!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow was this one hell of a bad movie. I totally agree with Roger Ebert on this one. Not only is the acting terrible, but you only see a few dragons! WE NEED MORE DRAGONS!!! I thought the movie was going to be about Dragons, it was about two tough guys (who grunt waaaaaaaaaaay too many times for my taste!) always at eachother. The script is terrible, I can not even imagine a normal person talking like any of these poorly developed characters. But I will say that the special fx are pretty cool. That might just be the only good part of this movie.REPORT CARD ( I can give either 1 pt, 1/2 pt, or no points for each catagory which add up to the overall grade of the film)Script NONE Story NONE Acting NONE Special FX 1 PTOverall 1/4 "},{"Title":"It all went up in smoke","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If this wasn't one of the worst all time movies in the Sci-Fi genre, please tell me what was worse so I don't waste anymore time. First, the acting...what acting? Bale, doing his Walesian lisp again, was boring. (I saw American Psycho. I know he has distinct elocution when he tries.) McConaughey was obviously told to look crazy and he accomplishes that. The rest of the cast dutifully always look to their lords and masters for clues to what they should be thinking, for thinking seems to have burned out also. I won't go into all the plot's nonsense ideas except to say that had I seen this movie in a theatre, they might have carried me out laughing so hard that my eyes would have glazed over like McConaughey. The hapless people of the Planet Earth have been trying for decades to defend themselves from the (female) dragons. No luck. They even tried Atom bombs, which only wiped out the cities (as I said, thinking is no longer de rigeur.) They wiped out the cities but the dragons just kept belching fire, like EverReady Bunnies. So how are Christian and Andrew going to defeat the wily male dragon? With a tiny rocket attached to a crossbow! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA. Sorry I just can't stop laughing. Did they have rescue stations at the theatres to assist people who passed out from hilarity? One star for Chriatian's lisp. One Star from Andrew's biceps. And one star for Best Dragon in a humorous role. "},{"Title":"A Dragon movie that seems to distinctively lack dragons!!!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Having watched this film twice now, I cannot help but get the feeling that the original screenplay pitched at the money men was significantly different from the end result.The publicity that even managed to suck a usual sceptical person such as me in had everyone believing this was chock full of endless dragons wrecking the world in general and London in particular, mainly thanks to one of the best bits of cinema poster art for years.All the good bits however where tragically glossed over in a naff one minute monologue and we where left with some strange hybrid of Mad Max meets Dragonslayer with the cast offs from a TV Movie about Vietnam thrown in for good measure.Health & Safety rules where set back several thousand years by the terrible opening sequence (a child on a building site is a no no for a starter but then let him crawl around subterranean earth workings &#150; all without safety equipment!?!?) I can see the production meeting where some suits said something along the lines of 'Yeah nice script but when do the American Forces arrive?' and so shoe horned in was a travelling band of burnt out marine loonies and I suspect out went any intelligence and interest this script once possessed.There where a few good bits, notably the dragons - when they eventually bothered to make an appearance &#150; where well done. The only half decent non-hammy OTT acting performance however came from Izabella Scorupco and she was woefully underused as well as being hampered by a leaden and clichd script.Overall &#150; not good, it could have been so much better than this which makes Reign of Fire a major missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  They should have made this movie into a fantasy/sci-fi film.  The premise of how dragons got loose again on future earth was ridiculous.  I laughed out loud numerous times when I'm sure it wasn't the films intention.  Matthew McConaughey 's character (Van Zan) was a complete stereotype.  Just plain BAD.  "},{"Title":"Lies","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers thar be.Oh, what a glorious amazing film this could have been. A fascinating idea with a lot of original potential. As usual, it was all flushed away in favor of easy trash. But what is really worse is that the posters (and trailers to some degree) still advertised this film for what it could have been. Not what it is. It's basically false advertising.The posters feature London in flames, Big Ben blazing, an apache helicopter in aerial combat with a dragon. Wow! Did this EVER happen at any point in the film? NO! What we do get however is 90 minutes of dirty peasants standing about in a quarry and 10 minutes of very unremarkable dragons huffing and puffing. The idea of them ruling the world is completely lost as we never see anything other than a dirty quarry.The trailer said that the movies takes place in 2084 but it doesn't it begins in 2010 (for no particular reason) when a young Christian Bale (a great actor who is repeatedly contracting himself to bad movies) hangs about at his mother's work (drilling for a new underground tunnel for London's tube trains). He comes across some kind of weird egg in a long, long forgotten cave. This, somehow, reawakens a sleeping dragon (which must be female if it has laid this egg) which promptly kills some of the diggers and escapes. Right at this moment the movie jumps to several years later!What a rip off! The entire story of the Dragons taking over the world is just skipped. Why? They threw all of that away! Then they expect us to accept a story in which tough American soldier Van Zant (Matthew McConaughey) travels all the way across the Atlantic with his team to wipe out the Granddaddy of all dragons, who is located in London. But Van Zant travels there via a Northumberland quarry. Makes sense. He says that he would have brought a bigger team but lost most of them over the ocean. Why would dragons be out on the ocean? Fishing? Swimming? I hope they didn't expect us to imagine that they were on some kind of reconnaissance mission.So, anyway, Van Zant believes that this big dragon is the only male and killing it will lead to the extinction of the speices. This means that female dragons can only lay female eggs. So where did this male come from if the Dragon at the start was female? Even a throwaway line of pure exposition would have covered over this gaping error.And how does all the 3D imaging technology and tanks and helicopters Van Zant brings with him work? It would have broke in that space of time. And how did they transport a tank over the Atlantic exactly? And how could his team have lasted so long when they are clearly idiots and get killed right away?All good questions. No good answers.The fact that it's only 98 minutes long makes me suspect major changes in post-production.The DVD is in 2.351 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5.1 sound (the R2 release by Disney has a DTS track).  "}{"Title":"If only the movie was like the video cover...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First Question Um, where are the dragons? I saw plenty of some dirty hairy guy with a beard, an insane looking tattooed guy and a blonde pilot. Oh joy. Just what I wanted -_-Oh the COVER it shows a flight of dragons torching London. I was like COOL! who cares if the rest sucks, I can see DRAGON MAYHEM!!!Needless to say after 10 minutes I was MOST displeased -_-. We see an awesome looking dragon shoot out of the ground and then... writing? Them WRITING about what happens as we see a few blurry still images and HEADLINES talking about dragons??? WHERE IS MY FIERY DRAGON CHAOS????!!!???!!Another 45 minutes of dirty people... then a brief scene with a dragon half-hidden by clouds. Another 1/2 hour of dirty people. Then, an AWESOME shot of a giant dragon flying around London eating other dragons filling the sky.. gee that shot lasted what? a whole 4 seconds before cutting back to dirty people? Goodness forbid we should see anything exciting. -_-If a DRAGON movie can't entertain a dragon FANATIC like myself something is just VERY, VERY wrong.If you cut this movie into ONLY DRAGON IMAGES, it'd be about 5 minutes. SERIOUSLY. Grrrrr. In all I gave this movie a 1/10. I felt cheated and tricked by the video jacket.  "},{"Title":"So macho&#133; so glib&#133; so incomprehensible!","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This dragon epic shows some remarkable technical polish but falls prey to one of the most common faults of modern action films. The proceedings are meant to be so fast, so rushed, so furious, so surprising, so full of twists that essential elements of narrative fall to the wayside at every turn, never to be fully recovered. I watched this under the best conditions, on a widescreen TV with DTS sound and with the subtitles on for good measure. But because every bit of exposition is set during action, movement or panic conditions, very little of the storyline was understandable. About an hour into the film I had about a hundred questions to ask the scriptwriters and this DVD doesn't come with a commentary track so I pretty much made up my own story to pass the time. Action movie rule of thumb number one whenever vital bits of exposition are shouted under the noise of an incoming helicopter (a.k.a. the James Cameron syndrome), the viewer should know he's in for a rough ride. This rule also holds for incoming fire-breathing dragons. Action movie rule of thumb number two always turn the subtitles on. In the case of this little masterpiece of elliptic storytelling, you actually get extra informative dialog that didn't make it to the final soundtrack and that was probably chopped off to make the characters sound even more macho, enigmatic and virile, as if that was at all possible. With subtitles, the poor viewer actually stands an even chance of catching some of the characters' names before they leave or fry to a crisp. The bleakness of the photography, lighting and sets and the permanent wearing of soot, beards and oily black rags make any attempt at positively identifying the living in this story extremely chancy. Among the questions you will most frequently ask yourself during this film, besides the one most commonly heard in today's movie houses (i.e. `Who are those people?'), are Who or what am I looking at (at any given moment)? Do any of these people have any feeling for one another? Do any of these people have any feelings at all? Where do the Americans get their weapons, vehicles and ammunition, but mostly the fuel for their engines? Why did they leave America? How did they get here? What do they live on? Why do they want to go to London? What stops them? Why do they and the dragon come back to the castle? Why is the action set in 2020 when the theatrical trailer mentions 2086?  Why does anyone in this film do anything at all? I would also pay a handsome premium to learn what the `angels' are actually trying to accomplish by plunging to their death from such heights? Of course, exactly what barbed creature has crawled up Matthew McConaughy's rectum remains an open subject for debate all through this film and a challenging brain-teaser for all serious students of modern narrative and acting techniques. "},{"Title":"A very good Dragon movie!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was awesome! Great effects, great looking dragons and tremendous acting by Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey!Izabella Scorupco looked different but good! Bale's character showed more near the end.Matthew McConaugheys' awesome look with a bald head,beard and tattoos and great character made this movie even better in My opinion.I was surprised what happened near the end.If you want too see a great dragon then see The Reign of Fire!  "},{"Title":"Do the world a favor an set ablaze any copy of this film you come across.","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" was relieved that Reign of Fire was not nearly as dreadful as I had predicted it would be. That being said, it still wasn't a very good movie. The idea is that an excavation team uncovers the long buried lair of the dragons and sets them upon an unsuspecting world. By 2020 the world as we know it has been destroyed and almost nothing remains of human civilization except for a few battered survivors clinging to a pile of rock that was once an English castle. Food is scarce but the supply of guns, electricity, and gasoline seems to be doing just fine, we're not sure why, but whatever.Quinn (Christian Bale) is the leader of the group of survivors that resides within the castle. They are downtrodden and suitably grimy for a post apocalyptic film, but there isn't a real reason they are so dirty because the plumbing seems to be just fine and water is everywhere, but again, whatever. Then Van Zan (Matthew McConaughey) and his soldiers show up with some tanks, a helicopter, and a plan to kill off the dragons. The plan itself has a rather gaping hole in it, they simply assume there is only one male and that by killing it they win, not really the plan I would feel like dying for, but again, whatever.The acting is fairly decent and McConaughey is actually quite impressive as the American dragon slayer, I'm used to seeing him as a bit of a Nancy boy so it was a welcome change. The effects were also well done but even the best effects can't make up for a world that doesn't seem to make a whole lot of sense. Too many questions lingered in the back of my mind while watching this movie. If the dragons are starving but they eat ash, why is the world still covered in ash? If a harpoon kills dragons, why don't machine guns? How can they be sure there is only one male? Where does all the electricity and gas come from? Why hasn't the castle been burned to a crisp? Why am I thinking so much about this dumb movie? "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this one too. I rented the DVD a few years ago and the whole family liked it. This past weekend I found a copy of the video for 50 cents and snapped it up. We just watched it again last night. In the city scene my son immediately commented how much the scene resembled I Am Legend. (just a tad more crispy though). I have always loved post-apocalyptic flicks and this is up in the top. Probably because it also has nasty beasties. The scenes that have the male dragon were horrific and very well done. The effect is amplified by the vantage point witnessing the horror. The viewer can see the full destruction but is helpless to do anything about it. "},{"Title":"What smells in here?  Oh, It's This Movie !!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As Bart Simpson would say, this movie both Sucks and Blows ! While the dragon effects are cool, nothing else is in this movie, which should've been titled SuckFest 2020.The concept is interesting, but the plot is hackneyed, the acting bad, and it just gets worse from there. They couldn't even be honest in the commercials. Matthew McConaughey is not the star of this movie, it's Christian Bale (two roles of which were as a psycho killer in the universally panned American Psycho, and as a JFK Jr. clone in the fairly awful re-make of Shaft. THAT's star power, baby! The new Batman will be trying to live down this fiasco as well).Particularly good is the unending use of every tired clich in the movie book. Post-Apocalyptic world? Let's make it look like Mad Max/the Road Warrior, and give everyone an Australian/British accent. Who comes to save the day? Americans, of course. Let's make sure the two heroes neither like nor trust each other... until they have to team up to defeat the bad guy at the end, of course. Add one attractive female for a love-interest. And the teenage boy who won't listen to Dad, and wants to fight himself. Or the tough-as-nails, always screaming, army sergeant, chewing the stub of a cigar.And there are just too many inconsistencies, even for a fantasy dragon movie. For people who are starving to death and are, as they say leading lives of quiet desperation, they sure know how to party when they kill a dragon with lights and wine and Jimi Hendrix's Fire blasting from the stereo. (For people who watched dragons burn up the whole world, would YOU be blasting Let me stand next to your fire ?) And where IS the stereo in this bombed-out Keep / Castle / Cave they're living in? And where is the electricity, or how do they make it? And with no water source around, where do they get water for drinking and their fire-hose equipped trucks ?And all these starving people have quite a bit of muscle-tone, don't they?Where do the Americans get the fuel to run their helicopter and tanks, and whatever troop carrier they used to get from the U.S.A. to London, England?It's movies like this that made TV popular in the first place.Rating D "},{"Title":"Major disappointment","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are already hundreds of comments on this movie, of which I have only read a handful (which mostly approve) so I will be fairly brief. The visual effects creating the dragons themselves are wonderful, but the plot is dismal. There is a rather boring bit of local bickering among British survivors, then a brief power struggle between their leader and the leader of the American arrivals, then a few brief sequences of battles with the dragons. And there is a lot of footage of bits of scenery burning, and of blackened, burnt-out landscape and cityscape. As others have said, although it pretends to be set in our own non-magical world, with the dragons part of a normal palaeontology that takes in the known dinosaurs, the scientific basis for the dragons' physiology is dubious to the point of nonsensical. The present day scene at the beginning, with the rediscovery and awakening of the first dragon, introduces the protagonist's mother apparently only to kill her off as a motivation for his survival and becoming leader of the British group; however the fact that he was there as a boy is never used in the rest of the story except for a brief flashback memory in a stressful moment later on. The entire premise of the screenplay, that the powers that be and all the armed forces of nations at the beginning of the 21st century would be so helpless against the creatures for 20 years, so that most of the human race is wiped out, but that these same monsters could then finally be defeated by a handful of people with a few hand-held weapons including a sort of harpoon gun about a metre or two long, is utterly preposterous. For me, the story fell quite flat throughout. A major disappointment and a total waste of the acting skills of the cast and the labours of the visual effects artists and animators who created the truly beautiful and terrifying-looking flying beasts themselves. IPH "},{"Title":"the front cover looks good...... thats about it. (spoilers herein)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   From what i re-collect..... There were dragons that awoke from dark places....... London underground... or something.... meh. It seemed like it could be pretty cool; mythical monsters rising from their slumber into the populated streets of London and other such places... exciting, action packed and genuinely dark. Unfortunately, this film failed to live up to my expectations, and i was appalled by the extremely poor quality.Evidently, they've tried portray the survivors in that way- done so well in madmax2- run down, isolated and distant from a reality which they once knew... however, they came across as annoying hobos with really crap weapons...... i couldn't stand that annoying 'conflict' of characters on the same 'team', so often badly conveyed i.e. 'Oh, u cant be serious, this will never work!' or 'I believe in u, we can do it'...... arggghhh, annoying! All the characters lack depth and originality. At one point i thought... 'Yes! Here comes the cavalry (Americans) with fun weapons that might actually hurt the big lizards'..... but this cavalry failed to make the film anymore interesting or exciting.... they attempted to portray the main American character as a crazy, un-couth and courageous warrior... but he was really annoying and made the film even more unbearable.... the climax of the film was the American guy leaping at a dragon and getting messed up.... the one scene that could have made me say 'Ahh, that was pretty cool' failed to do so. Basically, this film was awful.... implausible... and extremely annoying. The idea may have seemed cool and exciting on paper... but in the cinema, it lacked.... bite (excuse the pun).  "},{"Title":"One of the worst...","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the worst movies.  I was flat-out bored throughout the whole time, where it constantly had unnecessary dragging, unoriginal plot, and just a truly weak premise.  Do not waste your time on this flick. "},{"Title":"Christian Bale vs Dick Van Dyke","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not sure whose East End accent is worse but I suspect that it may be Christian Bale's. It sounded like he'd been having vocal training from Mark Fowler in Eastenders. It ruined the film for me.Aside from that... I liked the dragons but the film seemed to have been shortened/cut and, due to lack of character development, I really didn't care whether anyone lived or died.And yes... the poster of dragons torching London is very misleading.I think Pitch Black did it all far better. "}{"Title":"What a S*T*I*N*K*E*R","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't understand how it got to have 5.8 I still can't believe I PAID to rent it AND I WATCHED it. What a waste of film roll... an idiotic plot, lots of holes in the script, bad acting... and it all ends with a bunch of guys feeding dinamite to a dragon.Don't watch it! Don't waste your time, people ! "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  They skipped over what promised to be the best part. I was all set to watch the dragons destroy the earth, see major cities blown up, feel the drama of panic stricken humans fleeing before this terrible menace out of Legend. Instead they narrated over it so they could get to the truly intriguing bickering and depressing life in a post-apocalyptic castle. Bleh, I told myself going in it would only be good if the dragons won.  "},{"Title":"I fell into a ....","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was about as exciting as a episode of kid's show dragontales.The production level is about the same level as those made-for-tv movies that the Sci-fi Channel shows on Saturday. Just awful.The story begins after the dragons have taken over the world and just a handful of people are left therefore all the cool fighting scenes of dragons and planes etc are not going to be in this movie. Frankly my mind began to wander while watching this film. I had questions like why did the dragon wings have holes in them?  Did Japan call out Mothra to help defeat the dragons? and what happened to the two annoying little girls (no-not the Olsen twins) that used to sing to Mothra.  And if Mothra was there-what happened to Godzilla? And wouldn't it had been funny to have Peter, Paul and Mary sing Puff the Magic Dragon and then get eaten by a dragon? Anyway to sum it all up the movie had no action, the plot had more holes in it than there were holes in the dragon wings, and the production level was dismal.I enjoyed Dungeons and Dragons a lot more than this stinker.4 of 10goodbye June Carter Cash.  "},{"Title":"Less roar, more bore.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm going to keep this brief.  It works out because one of my complaints about this movie is that it's really short.  It is REALLY short; it doesn't really have a real ending as much as it looks like everybody just ran out of ideas.I have a request for anyone who is planning on making a monster movie from now on.  Look, guys, when we go to see a monster movie, we want to see the *monsters*!  We don't give a pair of fetid dingo's kidneys about the humans.  The humans in these movies are there to build things for the monsters to trash, and also to be monster food.I'm giving Reign a two because, I'll admit, these are some *COOL* looking dragons.  I just wish they were given more then twenty minutes of screen-time (by my estimate, it feels like less) in what's supposed to be their own movie. "},{"Title":"Dragon, and i don't mean the fire breathers...","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I say dragon, I don't mean the winged beasts that were flying around in the sky. I mean this movie really seemed to drag on. Although it only went for an hour and a half, that was enough. I really found this movie difficult to get into, and when I reached halfway I actually didn't care if I saw the end. The cinematography was extremely bland and mundane, and the special effects were really not that earth shattering. In fact, on the whole, this was a very ordinary movie. The only good thing about it was Izabella Scorupco. Rent it if you must, but don't say I didn't warn you. 3/10.   "},{"Title":"One word = Awful","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie. Its basic idea is stupid. Jurrasic Park was based on a brilliant, if hardly believable, idea. This movie tries to tell us that one dragon, yes its a big one and its offspring can defeat the human race into near extinction. The remained of my comments acting is really bad, the storyline assures poor charcter development, which is good since one doeas not care once some of the leading men die. Actually there not only no suspense, but also  no excitement created by this movie. I would go so far to vote it as one of the worst movies of this century. Granted that I don't see the scum of hollywood (not even released on a big scale), but for a mojor release this is as bad as it gets. "},{"Title":"b o r i n g","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i was so eager to see this film when i saw the trailer. it seemed like such an odd premise--one that i actually hadn't seen before in ten other films. for whatever reason, i never got out to see it in the theatre when it was out, and am i happy i didn't. it takes a certain kind of skill to make a military vs dragons, humanity on the edge kind of film as boring as this. not a single compelling relationship in it, and you'd think that in a film about dragons would actually show some dragons up close and interesting. when you make a monster movie, you want the film to dwell a bit on the monster--like in alien, jurassic park, or even godzilla (which was terrible for other reasons). sure--you could argue, but this was really a film about people in crisis showing what it really means to be human! but then, why make it a dragon movie? most of the time we see the things far away on the horizon--not very scary or compelling. we don't find anything about them, not even an explanation of how that dragon was sitting in that cavern for thousands (millions?) of years. and we certainly don't get any sort of just visual play with the creatures--to show how cool they are or how they interact with each other, or how they eat, or anything. it's as if bowman wasn't actually curious about the dragons himself. and the whole queen bee thing has been done to death. how do you destroy an impossibly huge self-replicating horde that is overrunning everything? oh, luckily there is a secret off switch that you can flip if only you can get to it...aside from the boring dragons, we have the boring humans. the noble suffering father figure. the cigar chomping hothead. the blonde. the teen boy cypher for all the teen boys in the audience to identify with. i guess bowman thought that since we'd seen them in so many other films already he didn't need to flesh them out. and i still don't buy the it's-an-action-movie defense. we've seen these characters in films like the matrix and terminator who actually seemed believable despite their overblown circumstances. why are characters so important in an action film? no character, no suspense. if you don't care about the people, you don't care if they die, no matter how entertaining they are when they do it.it has a lot of the trouble that the x-files move had. while i liked it, bowman gave it a distant, reserved quality which didn't serve an action drama very well. another x-files parallel the overwritten diary voiceover at the beginning. it could have been written by chris carter himself.compare it to the two towers peter jackson knows that the audience is coming out for the creatures and the spurting blood, which he delivers in spades, but also the characters and relationships which make you not want bad things to happen to the nice people you are watching.  "},{"Title":"Absolute waste of money","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe I've just spent 3.75 on renting this appalling film.  On paper it sounds excellent, hundreds of dragons take over the earth and with special effects at the level they are these days how could it possibly go wrong?  Well for a start although the effects are quite good there are hardly any scenes involving dragons in the film which kind of makes it a bit pointless.  Then the ridiculous storyline and the total non-existent acting skills of the cast add up to make this one of the worst films i've seen in a long time.  The only good thing to come of this is that I didn't waste even more money going to the cinema to watch this like I was planning to.  Even more fortunately I didn't buy it and I ask anyone whose planning to do just that to think again.  In fact don't even bother watching it with all the decent films coming out now there really is no excuse for the likes of this.  "},{"Title":"Bad Breathe indeed.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Flat, Unsparing Science Fiction tale set in the future where dragons rule the earth. The special effects are very good, but they are far and few between, and the story is tepid at best. The performances of Matthew McConaughey and Christian Bale are wasted here, and are more deserving of a better film.  Could have been much better if they work on a decent script before they started filming.  "},{"Title":"Better Than Dragon Heart by far.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the best movie i`ve seen yet to feature Dragons the rest have been cr*p especially when it comes to the Special Fx the Dragons in this one blend in well with the scenery you dont sit there thinking to yourself ``Fake`` when you see the Dragons. The best part of the movie by far is the lovely Izabella Scorupco - (Alex) who is the helicopter pilot for Matthew McConaughey`s team/crew she`s a real beauty i`m glad she was in it for a long time instead of 5 or 10 minutes.The Apocalyptic view of London in the movie looked good as did the feeling you got of them being the only survivors of the massacre the Dragons inflicted on them everywhere you went in the movie was the same no one around except Dragons and the handfull of survivors and rubble which used to be civilisation.this was 102 minutes of straight up enjoyment i didn`t think it was boring at any point when watching it the end was ok not great but ok. i recommend this movie to anyone who likes ``a good night in movie`` even some of the kids may like it if they`re old enough to watch it one or two of the Dragon attack scene`s may scare them if they are young (depends on the kid thats watching i suppose).rating for this movie 8/10.  rating for Miss Izabella Scorupco 12/10. "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Somebody tried to make a good action/fantasy film, and failed. Even if there was a lot of fire, the spark was missing. What should this film tell us? Why was it made? Just because an off-spring of a video game can make money? OK, so be it.For those who want to see an action fantasy spectacle, avoid this boring crap. Too often we have to imagine the monsters, e.g. behind the hills, or we must reconstruct them from the actor's faces who pretend to look at them. And when they're shown, they always look the same. Big, fire spitting bats. They walk like the T-Rex in Jurassic Park. They roar like Godzilla. They have one King like the Queen Alien. The few humans, fighting in a destroyed world like in Terminator, live hidden in an old English castle resembling on Highlander.Of course, the originals are much better.The only scene I really liked was when the two men played Star Wars with wooden swords to delight the kids And then the dark knight said the unforgettable words I am your father!. It was funny to think of Star Wars becoming a fairy tale though the decades still told to children after the movies are long destroyed. But that was the only funny thing of this film. The rest was rather boring.A waste of time and money. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overheard at a Hollywood party (punctuated by snorts of coke)Y'know, Mad Max was awesome, man. But how about if, instead of a nuclear holocaust we got invaded by, like, dragons!Wow! That'd be cool!You got a script? No? Not a problem. Here's $20 million. Make that movie!What an utter piece of brain-dead trash! I'm generally willing to suspend disbelief for a fantastic premise, but this was just too preposterous to swallow.The movie supposes that tens of thousands of fighter jets were unable to take out a batch of slow-flying reptiles. Sorry, but I can't buy that, either.Suspension of disbelief can only go so far. "},{"Title":"reign of idiocy","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies i have ever had the displeasure to watch.  I very nearly turned it off half way through, but i did not want to waste the money I paid to rent it.  That was the big mistake.The movie was written in such a way that nothing was believable.  One male to fertilize an entire species that eats until the entire planet is lifeless, and leaves no evidence of its existence until the One male is found in a rail tunnel?  Then entire nations cannot kill dragons, not even with fighters, missiles, etc... yet the characters manage to do just that with crossbows.  please!!!!In addition to the complete unbelievability of the story itself, the characters are lifeless, flat, and completely without motivation.  even the action scenes, which should be a strength of a film without plot or believablility, are contrived and boring.  i find this movie has no redeeming qualities.  i would rather watch barney or the telletubbies. "},{"Title":"Read a good book and forget about this movie.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting and plot line in this movie were the lowest I have seen in a while. The actors could have done a much better job but I blame the directors for their mistakes (Other than taking the roles, but I realize work is hard to get and the actors may have needed work). Over all a Very bad movie and even worse plot. "},{"Title":"No contents","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie promises a lot in it's trailer. I like the trailer and went to see the movie. I was deeply disappointed, the movie starts and all the time I had the feeling of it's coming..., it's coming.. and it didn't come. It was boring and didn't reach anything.Watch it in TV if you really have nothing else to do. Taking your dog for a walk will be better than this.1/10 points. "},{"Title":"Such a waste","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Battlefield Earth means Flying Lizards. This could have been such a good movie. Why is it that in desperate, end-of-life-as-we-know-it scenarios, the main male characters have to fight each other instead of the common enemy (a la Pitch Black).  In the old Disney movie, Dragonslayer, the dragon was as novel and convincing, and the story had a coherent plot. "},{"Title":"This is bad......really bad.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is crap in it's purest form, the story is crap and the dialogs are crap. The actors, who are actually quite talented (here I'm thinking mostly of McConaughey and Bale, though even Scorupco can do better), make an embarrassingly poor effort. Stay away from this movie, go out jogging, or play with your dog instead. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Erm...this movie is whacked, to put it simply.  The only thing this movie has going for it is some flashy visuals, nothing more.  As for the story...what story?  It's not until the movie is three quarters of the way through do you get any idea as to what is going on, and then it's wham, bam, thankyou ma'am as the film delivers a big, noisy climax.  The thing is, the creators of this movie fail to realize that a climax requires some sort of lead up if it's to be even remotely fulfilling...Bad movie, enough said.  Avoid at all costs.   "},{"Title":"Reign of poop!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't see how anyone could like this film.  Maybe if you enjoyed Dude where's my Car?  The other 99.99999999% of people should stay away.  In fact, I'd go so far as to say if you must watch a Dragon movie, watch Dungeons and Dragons instead!  and thats got Marlon Wayans in it for god's sake. "},{"Title":"Why Is This Movie So Bad?","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is bad because it sucks.-Bad acting.-Bad plot.-Plot holes.-Bad directing.-Boresville U.S.A.-One of the worst movies this year.Could of been good, but it sucked. "}{"Title":"BORING!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can describe this film in one word, BORING.This movie couldn't figure out what it wanted to be when it grew up. Not enough action to be an action film. Not enough science to be science fiction (one brief reference to dragon mating and their napalm breath). Not enough horror to be a horror film.The characters were so two dimensional that I could not care a bit what happened to them. The plot was so empty.I was thoroughly disappointed with this film since the concept held so much promise. The only reason I gave it a 3 instead of a 1 was because it had dragons in it and the Marine woman was fairly attractive. Otherwise I would strongly advise you to not bother with this film.** I went to see it in a drive-in theater so I watched another film out the window of my car ** "},{"Title":"A giant fire-breathing turkey","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie's plot had more holes in it than the dragon's wings in the end battle.  How the heck could it fly when it's wings looked like torn sails?!!!Spoilers below!!!Bad biology  How did they know there was only one male on the entire planet?Bad plot device How come the dragons could flame a tank and armored fighting vehicles to death with an extended flame spewed like a fire hose from a couple hundred feet up but couldn't hit our heroes at 50 feet and seemed to belch rather than blowtorch as seen earlier.If dragons eat ash, why were the ruined crop fields not grazed by the one in the early part of the film?Bad logic  If a single-shot whaler-type harpoon cannon can down one dragon, a squadron of A-10 tank busters should be able to turn several hundred at a time into chop suey.  Bet dragons can't fly at 30,000 feet or close to Mach 1.  I will also bet a dragon's flame won't reach a mile or so..ever seen an A-10's main gun in action? Dragon burgers.More bad logic  Why rush everyone out onto the ramparts when a dragon is sighted?  Get everyone the hell down into the deep cellars.  Heat rises. Part two  They had a radar antenna shown working in one scene, yet they relied on a falcon getting cranky and an old man with a telescope when a dragon was nearby.Bad tactics Ramboesque leader lets his armored vehicles bunch up when they stop at a road block...no one past Basic would do this, it just screams flame the entire line in one swoop!  Yet he knew he was headed for dragon central.Bad plot device  Their radar can't see the dragons unless three units are planted and working.Bad plot device again  Rambo type brings a main battle tank, a chopper and support equipment but has *zero* anti-air or anti-tank missles?  Not even a Dragon (pardon the expression) anti-tank load?  C'mon!  Apparently not even a decent 20mm AA, or even a few LAAW rockets. They take on the dragon at one point with .50s, M-16's and 9mm sub-machine guns.  Sheesh.  I know he claims to have lost a lot of stuff but they'd have surely salvaged something better. A couple of grenade launchers surely.  Now the Brits being under-armed I can understand, I was amazed they had as much civilian weaponry as they showed, current politics over there being what they are, normal civilian defense couldn't stop an invasion by street mimes let alone herds of rampaging dragons.  ;)Final disappointment  Watching the trailers  and hearing ads and looking at print ads, you expect Independance Day type air battles with Apache gunships duking it out, air strikes etc...nada.  The posters and newspaper ad copy blatantly distort that completely...almost the entire conquest of the planet takes place via narration and a few flashback or newspaper articles and voice-over newscasts.  They overhyped that part rather badly in the advertising. "},{"Title":"this movie was worse than 'vertical limit'","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel dumber for just having watched this movie.  It's not the $7 that I miss, I want the two hours of my life back.  If you enter the theater, then you are already making a conscious decision to accept the existence of dragons -- I know this.  However, even with my already expanded limits, there were still scenes that were highly unbelieveable as well as major plot supports that were very weak at best.  Don't waste your time with this movie.  I thought I had lowered the bar to its extreme with 'vertical limit' and the 'mummy' movies -- but I was wrong. "},{"Title":"The first part of the Movie would have made a better movie.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  > That might be an odd saying, but Reign of Fire would have been a better > movie if they took the first part when they were showing all the magazine > covers, and newspapers about how the Dragons took over.  I was expecting dog > fights with Dragons and F16's.  Big times Battles with jets and Dragons > taking to the sky.  That was what I was expecting, instead I got one decent > action scene and the one of the most anticlamatic endings ever. > > > Note to future film makers if you have a long slow motion shot of a man > jumping with a big giant ax at a giant Dragon!  HAVE IT MEAN > SOMETHING! "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie with a great premise, the sort of thing you could sell in Hollywood easy  A race of dragons awakens into our world and threatens to eliminate mankind. With that premise, you imagine modern armies fighting dragons, cities being destroyed and great human drama. Unfortunately, the resulting movie out of that premise is one of the most horrible pieces of trash I've seen in a long time. The biggest problem is the 2 million plot holes that cannot be filled by any amount of dragons.  Sci-fi and fastastic stories do require suspension of disbelief.  Fine with that.  But, this movie requires that turn your brain off completely or that your age does not exceed that of a 4 year-old. Having chosen the time for the action sometime after the dragons have obliterated civilization puts the movie in Mad Max and Waterworld territory and we have been there before, several times.  And please, are we supposed to endure several additional sequels just to patch the holes of the original movie?  Its sad when the best scene in a movie is an unlicensed re-enactment of the Darth Vader battle in Empire of the Jedi. The second problem is the director.  After the X-files movie, this guy is still given another chance?  Why?  Oh why?  All action sequences are low on suspense, there's not much direction of actors, and the photography and lighting is unispired.  Even worse, some battles are simply badly edited and it is hard to believe the actors and dragon are in the same location. Matthew McConaughey steals all his scenes as the tough army man and seems to have gone out of his way to pump his physique.  His role is cliche as they come, but he pulls it off.  Christian Bale, once again given a starring role, blows it, delivering okay acting but far from the much needed hero in conflict that the movie asked for.  His character arc and motivation seem to much telegraphed and let's face it, this is a role that requires charm. Bale does not have that.  He ain't Mel Gibson. The beautiful Izabella Scorupco comes out decently, as both tough girl and subtly implied love interest. And then there's the dragons... After Draco, it is hard to create a more realistic CGI dragon.  And the movie does not break any new ground.  The dragon here is a monster and performs as such with good animation, but its integration is many times unbeliavable.  Even worse are the depictions of dragons and mayhem seen thru photographs and newspapers.   In terms of effects, the fire pyrothecnics are indeed the main attraction. In summary, I know you saw the preview and know a little about the story and sounds great.   It isn't.  A movie to avoid.  "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept was good, the actors decent, the effects pretty good, and the script, a crime.  Even for a fan of the Genre this movie is almost unforgivable.  There are so many plot holes and unbelievable elements that the movie can't really be enjoyed on any level.  Starving peasants that should go on a diet, illogical actions everywhere, and the biology of the dragons is so laughable you'd think we were back in the era of the 50's godzilla wannabe movie's.  Wait till it's on TNT late at night and it might be bearable. (If the infomercials are reruns)  "},{"Title":"crap, pure crap","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a fan of bad movies but really....this was the worst movie i have seen in a really long time.  I feel bad i dragged my girlfriend to go see this movie.  I mean i usually am pretty good with picking movies but i really regret this.  Please save your money. "},{"Title":"IT STINKS","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am glad that I caught this one at a free preview last monday. Let me say that I would have been extremely dissapointed had I payed a cent to see it.Frankly, this is one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time. The writing is on the same level as waterworld, and other than the basic premise, it brings very little that is new or interesting to the genre.I was surprised that Matthew McConaughey was willing to touch this project. If you manage to last to the end there is a particular scene towards the end of the picture which is shot in slow motion (I won't say more) which drives home how cheesy this movie really is.Avoid it at all costs  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do yourself a favor and save the money.  This hackneyed script could have been penned by a 5 year old.  If you actually enjoy this movie you are a masochist.  In theory, a movie set in a Post-apocalyptic world inhabited by dragons sounds quite nifty but it really isn't.  Once five minutes have elapsed in the theater you'll wish you had heeded this warning. "},{"Title":"Yuck!!!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Congratulations!!!!Reign Of Fire was just about the worst movie I've watched in the last ten years. Utterly unsympathetic characters running around in a grey landscape, doing nonsensical things to get rid of a menace. DON'T rent it, DON'T watch it on TV....just BURN it. It's not even bad enough to be funny. "}{"Title":"Total Failure","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Reign of Fire is a less than worthless unfinished piece of crap, not even remotely worth seeing.  The story is as thin as they come - penned by an eight-year-old perhaps - with little point or message.  As a fantasy, it has the depth and quality of a junior high school droop out's first attempt at crafting a D&D scenario - so don't even give me that loosen up, it's just for fun crap.  Fun would be something 1/10th as good as The Princess Bride, this was 1/10th as good as a below average A-Team episode without Mr.T.  While drizzled hear and there with some low-grade bits of meaningless action, most of the movie consists of people talking to each other in front of poorly lit sets.  What action there is mostly consists of quick flashes of cheap digital violence, in which meaningless characters disappear from the story in no particular order.  The viewer is repeatedly asked to excuse the most idiotic plot points imaginable, with little if any payoff for doing so.  Numerous unfinished details dangle helplessly from the story's unfinished edges, included I suppose only because the effects just looked too cool, dude to toss the scenes completely.  It is clear that the creators of this mess had better intentions than what they ended up with, but there is no debating the fact that much of what we see on screen (and wait through, bored in our seats) is bare-bones filler intended only to fill out the minimal length of a feature.  Reign of Fire is totally disappointing, stay away. "},{"Title":"Complete Bullshit!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Normally, enough said, but I have to add some more text, even though this is a waste of time on such a movie. The movie has no real plot, it has no logic it all, bad acting (Scorupo being worst), even the special effects are not really worth mentioning, if they were, this wouldn't help, either. More than 20 years after Mad Max another rip-off (sort of), but one of the worst kind. It's just amazing to see with which great fanfare such movies are being promoted and - even more surprisingly - being regarded in a positive way by the audience. Unfortunately, actors in Hollywood have to do some of these movies to stay in business, because after having played in such a movie, I wouldn't offer any one of them a role anymore, personally. "},{"Title":"logic? plot? action?","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was in the mood for a dumb action movie when I watched this.Still, I wasn't ready for what I saw no characters, a sorry excuse for a plot, a blatant disregard for even the least interior logic.Little happens during the movie, and the action sequences are few and far between, with quite a few opportunities for some real action nonchalantly left out, making it appear is if the budget the budget was exhausted in the middle of post-production. This sucks - in a very modern, stylised Hollywood way.Avoid at all costs. Daytime talk shows have more content than this. Snail races have more suspense. How Christian Bale ended up in this is beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, but in a bad sense..","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I know this is a fantasy slash science fiction movie, and still I just don't buy the story. It's just not well thought through, everything's just a bit too far fetched. I won't get into the plot, it's thin as it is, no need for spoilers (in case you do want to see it).. "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie starts with an interesting concept and then falls flat on its face. Stupid and cheesy, lousy effects, and indifferent acting. I barely made it through to the end it was so stupid. This seems to be a case of special effects trying to carry a lousy script. I'm just glad I waited for the video.  "},{"Title":"This was so disappointing","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I like fantasy stuff and I like Sci-Fi and dystrophic scenarios but this was lame. It started off pretty good but it didn't go that well for long. The beginning felt like 7/10 for me and in the middle somewhere 5/10 and than I just couldn't bare watching it anymore. They did it all wrong, even acting. The music was strange too. The plot was completely strange and not really perfected there were too many question marks left like why so suddenly were the dragons back or how come no one organized there killing properly I mean it's in the future there has to be some kind of nuclear weapons or gas or something and that simply made it unrealistic to me. They overused this blue/gray filter or what it was it was just annoying and made the mediocre SFX even look worse. And the characters were just not believable, they acted like this than like some times I thought those multiple persons in one.. I don't know it didn't feel real. Just don't watch it though it may look interesting... it's not. "},{"Title":"Reign of Fire","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had heard a couple of people tell me that this film was rubbish, so naturally I wanted to see it for myself, and boy did I agree with the opinions. It isn't the absolute worst film I've seen for a while, but it certainly isn't good enough to see again. Anyway, basically years ago miners opened up a long buried dragon, and as the years pass, Earth has become an incinerated wasteland with who ever's left alive doing everything they can to survive, and find a way to kill the fire breathing beasts. Leader of a Northumberland medieval castle is Quinn Abercromby (American Psycho's Christian Bale), and his whole group of survivors, including friend Creedy (300's Gerard Butler), are hoping the dragons will die out and go into hibernation, but their running out of food. One day, American dragon slayers arrive, led by Denton Van Zan (EdTV's Matthew McConaughey), with pilot Alex Jensen (GoldenEye's Izabella Scorupco), and they are all now working together to bring down the beasts. That's about it! Also starring Scott James Moutter as Jared Wilke, David Kennedy as Eddie Stax, Alexander Siddig as Ajay, Ned Dennehy as Barlow, Rory Keenan as Devon, Terence Maynard as Gideon and Alice Krige as Karen Abercromby. The special effects are worth looking at, but the performances are all woody (not just from McConaughy), the story is lame, well, it's just a lame film. Adequate! "}]