[{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The commentators so far seem to belong to one of two camps; those who hated the picture for what it is and those who liked, but did not love it, because of what it was not.   I think both groups are missing the point.  You simply have to accept the conventions of this type of story, just as you do when you read/watch Shakespeare's plays.  Do that and you will have a wonderful time with this film.  I thoroughly enjoyed it; it was witty, fast paced, sexy, the acting was fantastic (especially Kingsley though Sorvino is no slouch)etc. etc. etc. etc.  Just let go and let it sweep over you.  A splendid time is guaranteed for all. "},{"Title":"Triumph of virtuoso film","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What can I say... A virtuoso of film. Mira Sorvino lights up the screen in this period frolic. Brilliant delivery, acute comic timing and Clare Peploe's fun direction ensure a masterful cut. In Sorvino's wake, Kingsley, Shaw and Rodan form a well cast, well acted and elegant support. Especially worthy of a mention is Rebecca Stirling who does an amazing job as Phocien's (sp?) best friend / royal subject. The electric guitar music is so anachronistically right, the DV jump cuts are well placed, and the dialog well written... I don't think I've ever heard period dialog performed with such a natural light touch. It is Sorvino that we remember after the lights are down, playing dual roles, and seducing the viewers as well as the characters. In another Oscar deserving performance, the biggest triumph here is that of Mira herself.... "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie if you like classical French theater","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In college I studied Marivaux -- whose play this movie is based on -- so I have an understanding of the movie's context and characters. Given that, I found Triumph of Love to be rather enjoyable. But I don't recommend it for everyone. If you like Shakespeare in film or other cinematic adaptations of theater, you might well like this one. Mira Sorvino is, of course, lovely in the starring role(s). "},{"Title":"let the hijinx ensue","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i loved this movie. it was fun, humorous, entertaining, and witty. the play was first performed in 1732 but i think the plot meets (and excels) today's standards. Mira Sorvino did a great job as did all of the other cast members.if you liked Oscar Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest or any Shakespearean style plots of mistaken identity, deception, lies, love, comedic betrayal, and that sort of thing, you will enjoy this movie.(of course it is supposed to take place in France, but as everyone knows, they apparently all speak with English accents there. ha ha.) "},{"Title":"Well Manicured","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Set physically in a well-manicured garden, managed by an obsessive gardener. Set philosophically in a similarly ordered mind-space, tended by two (co-equal) minds. Set dramatically in a narrative world formed by three cooperative directors (the original dramatist, the screen adapter, the filmer). Of these three, two of the affairs are false, and one is tentative. So we have the contemporary play audience flashed; we have the cinematic relationship similarly stuttered; we have the players playing actors playing roles (and one of these playing three roles to mirror the dramatist, adapter and filmer).`Love's Labor's Lost/Twelfth Night' meets `Rosencrantz and Guildenstern' meets `Draughtsman's Contract.'I love the idea, and appreciate the energy of the players and the apt set that carried me over the flaws. But these flaws are significant the excessive self-reference kills the rhythm of internal humor, the acting about acting seems downright silly in the many places where the enveloping direction was weak. The self-conscious editing was overly explicit, and could have easily been done precisely the same with bleeds instead of cuts with greater effect and no jarring.In the case of Peploe, the intelligence outstrips the skill -- in the case of the players, it is the other way around. I think a better strategy would be to try different philosophies of acting rather all from the same tradition as we have here. A more fluid camera could have helped as well. As it stands, we have something worth watching with the potential to have been great. But it abdicated.The director's credit at the beginning was one for the books. Perfect. It had the words stuck to the carriage wherein the characters are dressing as actors.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Creaky Adaptation that Does Not Translate Well Despite Gung Ho Actresses","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Triumph of Love is proof that not every Comédie-Française author who uses cross-dressing disguised courtship like Shakespeare is worth seeing. Or maybe something was lost in the translation of this adaptation of Marivaux, a Commedia Dell Arte-inspired playwright of whom Brittannica says His nuanced feeling and clever wordplay became known as marivaudage. While Mira Sorvino has fun dangling three mixed-up romances, her pants role wasn't even up to Cherubino in Marriage of Figaro.The herky-jerky editing is annoying and just seems to indicate that a lot of takes were needed for each long speech.Best was Fiona Shaw as the fooled spinster, as well as the costumes.The glimpses of audience we see and the closing curtain call to wink that this is all artifice doesn't really help.(originally written 5/29/2002) "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a princess simultaneously seducing a prince, his protégé and the protégé's sister, portraying herself as either a man or woman, all in the name of undoing a wrong that her family has done to the prince's a long time ago.  It has some wit, with some wordplay, some farce comedy, and the slow breakdown of each of the character giving in to her seduction.  But the buildup and final revelation at the end does not have the usual Shakespearean touch, where she would get closer and closer to being revealed, until a final big bang.  This film just didn't have that, although it did produce some laughs when the protégé and his sister both come out dressed in clothes they otherwise would never be caught wearing.The camerawork plays a bit with its jump cuts, trying to impose some sense of realism to this otherwise lack of stagey feeling film.  The sudden revelation of the audience did not occur frequently enough to signify anything beyond an aberration of the plot.Still, an interesting film with good interaction between characters, and a little insight to French plays of that period.  "},{"Title":"ben, fiona, mira and more","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the first 20 minutes, i too was skeptical but the film does blossom. don't be scared off by negative reviews; you have 108 minutes to spare. fiona shaw and ben kingsley both falling hard for mira is enough for anyone! hilarious and lovely. "},{"Title":"Better than Shakespeare in Love, but with awful editing","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very light period piece, in the spirit of plays like a midsummer night's dream, based on a 17th century farce. Don't expect the type of comedy that will make you laugh out loud, it's more the atmosphere of things not to be taken too seriously, particularly the princess having to pass as a young man. In the spirit of the movie and of older plays it's all perfectly normal and acceptable, because these kind of stories sacrifice believability in favor of good fun. And though flawed, the film is much better than the hugely overrated Shakespeare in Love.What I did have a problem with, was the horrible jump-cut editing. In a lot of scenes there were useless, unnecessary cuts because the camera did not even switch views, it looked extremely unnatural. Did someone spill coffee on some of the tape so they had to leave some out? Now the acting is what saves the film, I was especially delighted with Mira Sorvino and Ben Kingsley who both skillfully display grotesque but pleasant, sympathetic personalities. It was fun to see Mira in a men's outfit with boyish mannerisms tho still maintaining a feminine look. Also, the backdrops (of the 18th century-design garden and house) are gorgeous, real eyecandy.I bought this film for quite some money because I was very curious about it and have become fan of Sorvino. I would have rented it, would it have been available, but had to find it somewhere on amazon. But even though it wasn't entirely worth the money, I had a reasonably good time. If you want to see Mira's best, go watch Wisegirls, but this one is worth a watch as well! Enjoy.I give it 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"despite everything","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  despite every comment, I like this movie. miro sorvino plaed very well. The unusualness of the dialogs make me watch the movie. Also the costumes are delicious. Not a great movie, but I like it. You'd better watch it and comment yourself.  "}{"Title":"Pretty Good Script/dialog Let Down by So-so Acting","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The script and dialog of The Triumph of Love is often first rate in this movie, directed by Claire Peploe. Though I don't know how much the original story or script has been altered for modern tastes, the main problem of the movie is the uneven acting. Lead Sorvino is good in some scenes but stilted and off in others as is curiously Ben Kingsley. This can probably be somewhat attributed to inconsistent direction likewise. Anyway the movie features some very good scenes especially toward the beginning and end. I Didn't care much for the liberty thrown in with touch of the modern play towards the end. Mildly recommended, though if you're looking for a superior Victorian-ish story, check out the better though darkerRidicule. "},{"Title":"In a few words","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved how it kept getting more and more complicated, more and more your palms sweat because you can't imagine how it could all work out in a logical way after such intrigues and lies. The movie caught my attention, but true, most of it was to see the ending, to see all the nods get untangled. I also loved the lack of shyness and ethical boundaries which you see in all the more puritan love comedies these days (which abound in sex related acts or words). Surely, I am not talking of sex when I say the main plot lacks shyness, but of a certain perversity of thought, a scheme for love. Of course it can never be imagined as true, but the story is, as it should be, a story. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous,voluptuous,languid,clever and funny.","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An 18th century princess(Miss M.Sorvino) wants to restore the rightful heir to the throne of her country.He is incommunicado,living with a famous philosopher and his sister deep in the countryside.She decides the only way to get close to him is to seduce the philosopher,his sister and the prince himself in no particular order.Miss Sorvino has all the knowing innocence required of a Comedy Francaise heroine.Of course she is not in the least believable,but that's the whole point.The Triumph of love is,in its entirety,an exercise in deception.But it is not a deception that is meant to fool anybody but the play's characters. The beauty of the film as an entity is quite overwhelming.The colour is exquisitely rendered,the lush grounds of the philosopher's house are as vividly verdant as a Brazilian rain forest. Each shot is carefully composed to show off the performers to their best advantage. None of the performances is particularly subtle,nor are they meant to be.This is not serious drama,nor serious anything else.We are seeing a filmed play,a comedy of the sort that was once popular all over Europe,Miss Peploe could not have made that much clearer short of putting the camera crew in the action. Miss Fiona Shaw is absolutely outstanding as the philosopher's sister. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable-well produced as well.","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought Mira Sorvino did a great job as did Ben Kingsley and all the others, however my real praise is for the woman who played the young man's patroness, Fiona Shaw, what a performance she produced, intense and perfect timing as well, absolutely great. I recommend the film as good fairly clean fun and a pleasure to watch. Mira was really well suited to this part, mischievous and sexy at the same time, she caught the spirit of this french semi-farce very well, although I could not see her as a young man at any time. Still she handled the part very well, it must be a considerable challenge to play the opposite sex. The author was of course well known in his day, and the play upon which this film was based was first performed we are told in 1732. I thought the attempt to include an audience very clumsy and actually did not realize what they were trying to do as I watched the film, right up to the ending credits when the cast appeared for a bow wearing modern clothes it escaped me. frankly I doubt it was worth the bother of attempting anyway, it doesn't add anything in my view. "},{"Title":"A free DVD loan from the library, Kingsley and Sorvino are the reasons to see this film.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE is a film based on a 1732 story, and has a Shakespeare feel to it. The critic Ebert has a very good, complete review. By today's standards the story is implausible, but the acting of Mira Sorvino as the young lady dressed up as a young man, and Ben Kingsley as the old philosopher, are reasons to see this film all the way through. If one can get past the implausibility, and just watch it for the performances, it can be an entertaining 106 minutes.some SPOILERS follow ...The sole objective of Sorvino's character, the usurper of the crown, is to get accepted at the home of the philosopher and his spinster sister, to get close to Agis the rightful heir whose parents had been killed. He was being trained to hate the princess, and his archery target practice was into the heart of a likeness of the princess. To further her objective, she successively convinces the sister, then the philosopher, then Agis that she (or he) wants to marry each. The whole film presents one of these stories where you wonder how she will get out of the current deception, and she always does. In the end, love triumphs, as the title indicates.  "},{"Title":"A mixed effort.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Truly a remarkable film for its ups and downs. The ups are delightful (dialog, costuming, movement); the downs are simply awful (acting, timing, editing, concept).  The jump cutting, so dear to advertisers, becomes extremely annoying. The reference to the play as play by intercutting scenes of modern-day audience watching the play and the cast curtain call in modern day dress are distracting.  I wish they gave us the English to the French song at the end -- it's probably the best part, and my French is only good enough to guess at the meaning. It was also reformatted for the screen (TV) which already gives it two strikes in my opinion. The 18th century French must have loved it.  "},{"Title":"Love triumphs, but the film doesn't","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like Triumph of Love; several of the elements, in fact, might be organized into a film I could enjoy.  There's the elegant period sets and costumes, the gender-bending undertones, a couple comic servants, and Ben Kingsley and Fiona Shaw giving fine performances as a pair of emotion-disdaining intellectuals who become undone by their own vanity.  But Triumph of Love, sadly, proves to be all promise and very little payoff.Mira Sorvino is the princess of an unspecified (and presumably fictitious) country, who infiltrates the house of her political enemies disguised as a man.  Her purpose is twofold to right the wrongs wrought by her father on true heir to the throne Agis (Jay Rodan), and to win Agis' heart, which has been taught to disdain love by his guardians Hermocrates (Kingsley) and Leontine (Shaw).  Since nobody can do anything the easy way in a story like this, Sorvino's character works towards her ends by wooing Leontine (who thinks she's a guy), Hermocrates, and Agis (both of whom are in on her ruse) at the same time.  That's the setup; unfortunately, it's also the majority of the film.  Comedy of this sort usually hits its stride when complications entangle the protagonist's original design.  Here, the difficulties are introduced to late and resolved too quickly for us to care.  Meanwhile, a handful of servants are thrown into the plot and then given almost nothing to do either within or apart from it.Nor does director Clare Peploe help her case much.  Several scenes consist of choppy, distracting cuts--and not even cuts from different angles, but cuts from the same angle, giving the impression of a bargain-basement film cobbled together with the only pieces of film that were usable.  Images of a modern-day audience peeking in on the action add nothing to the procedings, and are introduced in such a way as to feel like an intrusion on the film, rather than a part of it.For a much richer experience in this genre, I recommend the recent adaptation of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night.  Like Triumph of Love, it features a cross-dressing heroine, romantic entanglements and misunderstandings, comical servants, and a good turn by Ben Kingsley in a supporting role.  But it also contains infectuous life and energy and a story that dances merrily on its way rather than walking sedately.  Also Imogen Stubbs, as the gender-defying central character, makes a much more convincing man than Mira Sorvino. "},{"Title":"Slow but still worthy of a watch","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While the film has it's slow moments it's still beautifully made and true to the original play. A gender bending farce that mixes comedy with romance in delightful ways. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if not great","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just wanted to put something on here that was a little more positive than what Matt McGuire wrote. If I had seen this before I'd seen some of the movies based on Shakespeare, I might have felt that the dialogue was weird and the story contrived. However, having seen filmed plays like Twelfth Night and read a few early modern plays makes me appreciate what's going on more. What seems silly, stilted, and improbable to a modern audience is actually a very understandable play that follows traditional story beats and tropes. When watched from the right point of view and state of mind, it's actually quite an amusing story with occasional moments of romance and heartbreak. Perhaps the best thing about this movie for a modern audience is watching Ben Kingsley, Fiona Shaw, and the others enjoy their roles so thoroughly. PS I think the audience members that are glimpsed now and then was an inspired little touch. "},{"Title":"interesting and enjoyable but with flaws","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did enjoy this film but I really want to comment on the the bad editing and/or filming of this film.  I don't think I really have seen worse and is absolutely ridiculous that it should be like this.  Who ever is responsible for the production editing of this film should be ashamed/sacked/run-out-of-town/laughed at/never used again.I liked this film for what it is; a play written in 1732 and brought to the screen. Possible the story is a little outdated and not very plausible but it was fun and I think thats the point, it is a farce in the same style of a shakespearean play.  I also wondered if anyone has seen a film with a women playing a man's part and the audience actually believes that it is a man?  My method of evaluation would be that you wouldn't know unless someone told you that it was a women.  I have seen guys play women and be really convincing but I don't think I have seen a women fool me in a movie. It would be interesting to see.    "}{"Title":"Surely Ben Kingsley deserves the nickname Sexy Beast more for his role here","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Egad, what a cheesy title. But since it's a period romance comedy and not a contemporary one, it's a little more excusable I guess. The plot is a gender-bender. Mira Sorvino, a princess, falls for a young hunk who's been brought up by his bachelor uncle (Ben Kingsley) and spinster aunt (Fiona Shaw). Unfortunately, they've taught him to hate her and all other women (oooooh!), as well as reject the notion of love, so she has to dress up as a man to infiltrate their household and get Mr. Studly to fall for her. However, her charms are so great that the whole family winds up falling for her.Therein lies my moral quandary. Sorvino not only takes the trio of infatuations in her stride, she encourages all of them to selfishly accomplish her goal. Doesn't this make her an unworthy heroine then? Should we still be rooting for her when she breaks two hearts to attain one? I'm not sure if the ending is morally justified for suitable enjoyment of the movie, even if all parties involved eventually benefit by learning about the power of love. The sight of a simultaneously crushed Kingsley and Shaw are heartbreaking and put a damper on the happy ending. That aside, The Triumph of Love is a lovely display of fine actors having fun giving melodramatic performances. Sorvino is a great choice for the lead role, if only for her naturally deep voice. Her facial features are soft but back then it wasn't an uncommon thing for nobles back then to be gentiles in looks and nature. I can't help but to compare her to the other period gender-bending actress, Gwyneth Paltrow, in Shakespeare in Love. Paltrow undeniably gives the superior performance, but I can't say if it wasn't because Shakespeare was a better movie. Shaw is an excellent actress who can portray romantic torment with both comedic and dramatic flair. Sir Ben Kingsley reminds me of an older Colin Firth, not looks-wise of course, but in that they both look adorable when demonstrating the melting of their icy exteriors. And oh my, is that Gandhi wearing a wig and nuzzling a boob? Surely he deserves the nickname Sexy Beast more for his role here than in his other movie of that title. "},{"Title":"A quirky film based on a classic story","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect upon renting this movie, and as it began, my first thought was that I had wasted a good four dollars.  However, once I realized that the cheesy factor was intentional as well as the strange editing, the movie improved.  In fact, I found it to be quite enjoyable and pretty hilarious as well because it was quirky--definitely straying slightly from the movie norm.  The plot is based on Pierre Marivaux's romantic comedy from the 1700s in which a princess will do practically anything to be with the man she loves...who happens to consider her his sworn enemy.  The director took a modern approach to conveying the classic story.  If you're looking for something a little different but entertaining, then look into The Triumph of Love. "},{"Title":"A TRIUMPH INDEED","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a romantic comedy that borders on a fabulous farce, this film is for you. It's an adaptation of an almost 300 year old French stage play that is full of fun and frolic. Invite a friend with you to share this triumph of love over philosophy. "},{"Title":"Weirdly amateur","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yikes. This is pretty bad. The play isn't great to begin with, and the decision to transfer it to film does it no favours - especially as Peploe doesn't decide how she wants to treat the material's theatrical origins (we get occasional glances of an observing theatre audience etc.) and has decided to go with a jumpy editing style that is intended to keep reminding you that you're watching a film, whereas in fact it only serves to remind you that you are watching a very poor film by a director who is overwhelmed by her material. Mira Sorvino's central performance is breath-takingly poor stage-y and plummy, it's as if she's playing the part via Helena Bonham-Carter's Merchant Ivory oeuvre. Only Fiona Shaw delivers a performance of note - and it may be that her theatrical pedigree means that she is best able to handle the material - but it's hard to watch a film for one performance alone, even if that performance is as light, truthful and entire as Shaw's. Ben Kingsley turns in an average and disengaged turn, and Diana Rigg's daughter, Rachel Stirling plays her supporting role as just that. Sadly, none of Bertolucci's magic has rubbed off on his wife if this film is to be the evidence. "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me be clear. I've used IMDb for years. But only today I went through the trouble of registering on the site, just so I could give this movie the lowest possible rating. I've seen hundreds of films, some of them bad, a few awful. Never, though, have i seen such a contrast of pretense and incompetence, of high intentions and failure.Mira Sorvino is horribly cast as the princess, but entirely unbelievable as Phocion, a young boy. Fiona Shaw is always an entertaining character, but the dialogue in the film is much worse, even, than in the insipid French play that is the source (Marivaux never reached Hollywood until now, and we should keep it that way).To illustrate, for example, that Leontine is a brilliant, passionate philosopher and scientist, she is shown frantically pouring chemicals from beaker to beaker, shouting out names of famous scientists. And the romance between Agis and the princess is played even sillier. For this, the pair should receive a joint 'Clair Danes' award, which in a just world would be awarded for gratuitously anachronistic and uninspired re-interpretation of interesting teens from literature as brats of the 1990's (see Miss Danes in Les Miserables).Aside from the atrocious plot and dialogue, there are some attempts to introduce artistic tropes into the filming. For example, there are moments when a handful of spectators are faded in and out of view of the action, sitting in chairs, watching the principal characters. The Director wants us to realize she's adapted a play. I get it. But it doesn't happen at all until far into the film. At that point, seeing a crowd of people sitting in chairs for a moment, then disappearing, is creepy and distracting. They're like some sort of un-scary zombie crowd, appearing through the mists, filling us with dread. When you see the horrible frolic and song that ends this movie, you'll want to rouse your own crowd of zombies and kill them all for the grave injustise of poisoning your mind for 112 minutes.-Matthew McGuire "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I borrowed this movie from library think it might be delightful. How wrong am I!It is such a bad movie that I have to write something about it. Mira Sorvino is SO bad in the movie, it is very painful to watch the scene with her. She is a pretty girl, but in this movie, She is not seductive at all, but I will have to witness her awkward attempt to seduce almost all the other major characters. It is so ridiculous.And the dialog of the film is so pretentious, and lack the humorous fact that make then acceptable.Totally failure. "},{"Title":"Yeah. Whatever.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Triumph of Love is a silly little comedy about a woman (Sorvino) who dresses like a man to woo a woman and reveals her true sex to two men to woo them. The plot and her motives are elsewhere on this site. Having done that, she continues the scam on and on, engaging the trio of hapless would-be love interests over and over until the plot wears down to a nub. Triumph... is theater on film; a fact of which we're reminded by shots of an audience cloistered among the garden shrubs...an annoying interjection. A clumsy adaptation of theater for film, Triumph... will likely be of interest by only the most ardent aficionados of period plays. (C+)  "},{"Title":"An intellectually intriguing yet love-less film...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      This critic has never been an avid admirer of period pieces. They tend to be overdramatic and display an acute sense of melancholy that I do not find myself partial to. &#145;Triumph of Love' is a period piece that at times can be quite enchanting, and at other moments may seem like a droopy, overdramatic and mundane film.       Director Clare Peploe adapts a Marivaux play first performed in 1732 co-written by Marilyn Goldin and Bernardo Bertellucci into a fairytale.  Mira Sorvino stars as a Princess fixated on returning her homeland's throne to its' rightful heir who happens to be a prince under the protective custody of a deliciously uncovered Ben Kingsley who portrays a famous philosophist. Kingsely excels as a solitary intellect that outshines the rest of the cast as a man urged to follow his sexual thriving for the female flesh that he has come to loathe.  Hermocrates (Kingsley) despises the opposite sex and preaches these values to his subject Agis. Little does Agis know that he is the rightful heir to the throne and the film's momentum slowly builds upon this tiny aspect.       Reminiscent of &#145;Shakespeare in Love', Sorvino plays a Princess who must disguise herself as a gentleman caller in order to penetrate the grounds Agis inhabits. The film directly starts with the resolute transformation from Princess to Man in the Princess' chariot and before the opening credits are over, we are straight into the story. The film structures itself through a triangle of deceit, manipulation and false love as the Princess must first gain access into the grounds and then find a way of being welcomed as a guest.      Seduction of the sexes is a primary factor as the Princess eyes both man and woman in hopes of luring the young Agis who she is ultimately in love with. Director Clare Peploe crafts a witty period piece that will appeal mostly to its' intended audience who appreciate and understand the manner in which these films unravel themselves. Peploe's first attempt at differentiating the film from the theatre production in which it based upon is to give the film a unique cinematic style different to the conventional &#145;movie based on play' productions. Peploe uses her camera wisely and enjoys tracking the actors in their scenes as the play is removed from the film. Yet, we are candidly reminded that this was indeed a play when we see the whole cast within a matter of moments and notice the same areas being used for principal photography.       Credit must be given where credit is due, Peploe conveys the artistic integrity of the film beautifully but in my opinion, a play is a play. No matter how much exquisite beauty one can frame within a film, or no matter how many times you use clever camera work to make your actors appear as true thespians, the film seems to sporadically quicken in pace and then slow itself down into a paste at times that ruins the overall enjoyment of the film. Furthermore, watch for an interesting musical finale lifted from the play that explains why throughout the film we see audience members dressed in current day clothing within a period piece.       While it is a clever and crafty little film, the film will not appeal beyond its' intended audience due to the fact that while it is an interesting piece at times, it tends to get bogged down in semantically torrid and comedic sequences that deter the picture. Its' subtle yet profound theme of sexuality is best served under a different pretext and while it has some truly great dialogue, it still cannot save the film from a mediocre exercise from a playwright's mind. Giancarlo's Rating **  "},{"Title":"This movie is pure torture.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Triumph of Love doesn't triumph over anything. It is a plodding, ponderous, 4 hours of torture. Actually it's a little less than 2 hours long, it just seemed much longer.  It pains me to even think about the amateurish performances of such fine actors as Ben Kingsley and Fiona Shaw.  The supporting players are not quite as awful.  Maybe they were trying to be so over the top,  so as to be clownish, but, if so, I didn't see it that way.  Mira Sorvino doesn't make an impression one way or the other.  She(he)'s just there.  My guess is, the play of the same name, written by Marivaux some 270 or so years ago, is much better.  It couldn't be any worse. Clare Peploe, the writer and director of this movie, was inspired by a recent production of the play.  I don't know what she was thinking when she created this bomb. Maybe it all got lost in the translation. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I gave this movie a rating of 1 (Awful).  The only reason that it should even get a 1 instead of a big -0- is Ben Kingsley, who always shines not matter what terrible material is thrown his way.Mira Sorvino is so out of her element here that as a viewer one simply can't get over the fact that she is even in such a piece.Stupid, stupid story and horrible production.  Do NOT waste your video rental $. "}{"Title":"'Oh, Agis!'","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gods, I haven't watched a movie this awful in a long while. Maybe not since 'The New Guy' or various Freddie Prinze Jr. movies. Yes, it is that astoundingly awful. Mira Sorvino's blank and wooden acting surely must've been inspired by Freddie. The movie  staging was awkward (like a play, rather, and that feeling of confinement does NOT work well on film). The actors had no idea what they were doing, especially Sorvino. Her accent was awful and her sex appeal non-existent here so it was painful to see her 'seducing' other characters and they 'falling' for it. And what was with the occaisional shots of a live audience in lawn chairs? Nonsensical! I had to turn the dvd player off, it would have been self-inflicted pain to finish this film. "}]