[{"Title":"Love it or hate it, I think it's great!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Out Cold is one of my favorite movies. It's not intelligent, the acting isn't anything special and the plot is sub-par. But it's hilarious, and as a snowboarder wildly entertaining. I watch it in the summer when I miss the season, in the fall when I'm waiting for the season, in the winter when I'm NOT snowboarding, and in the spring when the season is ending. There is so much truth to the movie in some aspects that it just feels right. The movie is so funny in so many little ways, and if you open your mind and are willing to accept it for what it is, I think you'll love it as well. It has a great soundtrack featuring a LOT of Jack Johnson, some Weezer, Sum 41, other stuff, all of which is good. Jason London is great as Rick Rambis, Zach Galifinakis is hilarious as Luke and whoever plays Pigpen does a great job of acting dumber then you would think anyone could actually be. You'll either love it or hate it, but if you snowboard or like to have a good time, I think it will be the former. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than expected, a truly fun movie.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers for this film I thought it looked like just another run-of- the-mill comedy, and I guess in a lot aspects it pretty much is, but still, I thought it was much funnier and much better than I originally anticipated.Sure, the story is nothing profound, nor terribly original, but that doesn't necessarily mean it isn't good and fun to watch. The story is basically guy finds girl, girl dumps guy, guy can't get over girl, guy and girl run into each other again, girl explains why it will never work, guy must decide what he should do... Like I said, nothing profound, or original, but there's still fun stuff to be seen.The comedy in the film is what made the movie for me. Zack Galifianakis (Luke) is absolutely hilarious and plays a fantastic character. Jason London, David Denman and Derek Hamilton also have their share of comedic moments.I also feel very much obligated to mention the women in this film. This is reason enough to watch this film. Victoria Silvstedt (Inga) looks nothing less than perfect throughout the film. AJ Cook (Jenny) is also quite the looker and not a bad actress. The last woman I have to mention is Caroline Dhavernas (Anna), very nice!Normally I'm not one to pay too much attention to the music in a film (unless it's just atrocious), but anyhow, I thought the music choices are great in this film. The movie is packed full of great music (my favorites being Eve 6 - Anytime and Weezer - Island In The Sun).All in all, I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who likes snowboarding or just likes comedies. Just don't go in expecting the best movie you've ever seen, it's not the best, but it certainly was worth my money. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The Six Million Dollar Man Vs. Victoria Silvstedt","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OK, I'm a sucker for this type of film. I know it's something we have all seen a million times, but, darn it - we NEED this type of movie.Yeah, yeah, yeah&#133;the story line's predictable idyllic local winter ski haven (Bull Mountain) is under threat by a big-business tycoon's (Lee Majors) plans for turning it into a high rollers' resort town. And, yeah, yeah, yeah&#133;the subplot is equally original  boy loses girl, boy wants girl back, girl has fiancé, boy must go through trials and tribulations to win girl back, etcetera, etcetera, ad nauseum. Add a few crass scenarios, a big-breasted beauty (Victoria Silvstedt), beer and you've got yourself another boring teen-sex comedy. Right? Not so fast, partner.Out Cold joins the ranks of other great teen comedies (Animal House, Better Off Dead, Caddyshack, and the hundreds of others) in its magical ability to stop time &#150; if just for a moment. Like its predecessors, Out Cold captures that youthful time when friends surround us, we are having the time of our lives and the party never seems like it is going to end. Those are our `rites of passage' years - generally, between the ages of 16-25 - nine very short years.Out Cold takes place in the fictional tiny-town of Bull Mountain, Colorado - elevation 10,000 feet &#150; a winter wonderland of snow, skiing and snowboarding. A place where there's always fluffy powder to plow through and a hilarious friend is at every corner you turn. There's always the local pub to chill in after a hard day of playing &#150; the characters in these movies all have jobs but no one seems to work. Loneliness is not an option. That's what makes this movie (these movies) great. Out Cold isn't just about gross-out gags with guys running around trying to get laid, it's about the escapism that these films offer. Even if you've never experienced the perfect winter or summer vacation &#150; even if you've never gone to that ivy-league school where no student has homework &#150; even if you've only dreamt about spending time at exotic locales with fun in the sun/snow &#150; this is the reason why we NEED this type of movie. If only for ninety minutes, these movies offer a fantasy or nice remembrances of times gone by (or, to come.) For all of you naysayers out there who pooh-pooh this film on the account of its wonderfully juvenile content, I say, `Go see Harry Potter, you bombastic moralist and leave me alone!'  "},{"Title":"Animal House for a less discerning audience","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" OK, this film is not going to win any awards for best acting, or best cinematography, or best picture for that matter. However, this film will make you laugh. It will spend about a buck ninety of your time in a very guilty pleasure sort of way. It revolves around a town in Alaska, a ski town, that is about to encounter a shift from a peaceful, secluded atmosphere to a bustling, main stream atmosphere. Our heroes are the snowboard instructors who have to save the day from a irritating, stereotypical land developer. Putting aside the obvious overtones of similar movies of this genre, and dispelling some predictability you really can have a good time. The jokes are funny, the characters have some witty dialog and the story moves briskly. The only drawback for me was the inept love story, but that was balanced out with some good jokes derived from it. It's no Schindler's List, but is a worthy addition to a home library or just a rental on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Dear Lord Go See This Movie Right Now","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Being only one of two people in the world to see this movie twice in the theaters makes me perhaps what one would consider an Out Cold expert. After buying the movie on DVD (available now in all self-respecting stores) I have enjoyed it four more times, and I have to say that not only does this movie not deserve the current ranking in the 4's, but the movie is far better then it is being portrayed.  Out Cold is part teenage-gross-out laugh-fest, part Ode to Casablanca, part kick-ass snowboarding.    This movie is rich in a deep, philosophical plot, in which our protagonist Rick Rambis, is locked into a bitter war to keep his life and his town.  Bull Mountain has been his home forever, and when the departed owner's son decides to sell the mountain (to the Six-Million-Dollar-Man Lee Majors, playing John Majors-no relation) Rick and his n'er-do-well comrades must conform to the new ruler.  Majors foresees the Black Diamond in the Rough as the next Aspen, and begins to change the quaint heritage of the land to conform to his new vision, Snow Nook.  Rick and his friends decide to rebel and take back the mountain. And if the rich plot is not enough, it also has Victoria Silvstadt, former Playmate of the year, Zach Galifianakis, a great comedian who gets his helmut stuck in a hot tub, and a cast of tens of...well...tens of extras. The movie was unfortunately passed over at the Oscars for movies that did not have anyone having sex with a hot tub, that didn't have any playmates, that didn't have the Weezer song Island in the Sun, nor did it have the greatest words of wisdom ever in a movie, No regrets, that's my motte. That and 'Everybody Wang Chung Tonight'.    "},{"Title":"Nice comedy.","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" My hopes were not high for 'Out Cold', they really weren't. I thought this would be just another stupid American comedy like 'Dorm Daze' which i also watched a few days ago and was far from impressed with. It wasn't so thank god for that!For an American comedy the humour is at times sharp even though at times it is blunt but still works very well. Who the heck wouldn't laugh at the drug test scene!? The acting is also spot on. I think Jason London's character is a bit stupid though because that girl Jenny that likes him is much better looking than that french bird Anna he dated for three weeks. No Contest! I was like Dude, stop being such a douche and go for sweet Jenny who likes ya instead of Anna who is a cheating ho!.The locations in this film are beautiful and the snowboarding scenes are breathtaking at times. All in all a nice comedy which ultimately tells the story of corporate America f***ing things up. Well worth watching. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Although it may seem like the same old crap, snowboard, hot chicks and funny jokes actually WORK!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Ok, I know everyone think this movie is idiot, predictable and has its stupid jokes. I could be with you, I dont like this kind of movies, specially when it gets as bad as The Sweetest Thing , The New Guy and others from the genre...But I am here to say that this is one funny movie! The Snow boards sequences are super! We don't care for the acting in movies like this, since we laugh and feel good, it's all right. I am asking you to not be led by the critics, because people sometimes forget to watch a movie as it is supposed to be, do yourself a favor and don't do that.I recommend you to watch this movie and have a laugh with your friends. But i must say it is not great, there are no mesmerizing jokes, but still got its charm...My rate would be 6 out of 10, but that blondy , oh man, she deserves a nice star so my rating is  7 / 10have fun! "},{"Title":"Fun Movie To Watch Actually","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" When talk about this movie you might think it is just another Jason London movie that you barely heard about and is doubted weather to watch it or not; after all he is not very much of a extreme type of guys to be playing this role. Anyway, he did! And tell the truth the movie ain't that bad.It is about the group of friends try to save their beautiful town from taking over by the rich tycoon.Not very original story but movie did offer more on pretty funny casting that turn out to be good (Caroline look great); some of the scenes are funny and smile worthy and even to laughable at time.Recommendation Definitely worth a watch Rating 7/10 (Grade C+)Please Rate My Review After Reading (YES/No), Thanks! "},{"Title":"Best. Worst. Movie. Ever.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is HORRIBLE and you should love it.From a cursory glance, this movie looks like a retread of what larger names (Adam Sandler, Chris Farley) have done and failed at, but this movie is different. THIS MOVIE IS FUNNY. It is pure unclean fun and what it lacks in a message it more than makes up for with sharp humor.While people may take issue with the subject matter (drugs, dick and fart jokes, boobies), the story and dialogue are exceptional. This isn't Les Miserables (or even South Park Bigger Longer Uncut, taking jabs at society) but it is smart and witty and you'll find jokes on the third trip that you didn't see before. Give it a try--it's definitely worth your time.8 out 10 Rated Excellent for Casablanca references, the scene on the mechanical bull, and just being absolutely fun. "},{"Title":"An entertaining slobs versus snobs comedy.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Out Cold is a little-known comedy gem from 2001 that has somehow managed to find its way on my list of movies that I watch on a semi-regular basis.The film is set in the fictional ski town of Bull Mountain, Alaska, a place which manages to maintain its unpretentious, laid-back small town atmosphere despite being located in an area famous for its great skiing and snowboarding. The plot focuses on a group of young twenty-something local residents who enjoy snowboarding, getting drunk, getting high, and playing practical jokes on each other. Leading this group of likable misfits is a man named Rick Rambis (played by Jason London), who is unable to form a relationship with attractive snowboarding instructor Jenny (played by A.J. Cook) because he is still pining over a girl he met during a drunken binge in Cancun, Mexico.When wealthy businessman John Majors (played by veteran actor Lee Majors) steps in with the intent of buying Bull Mountain and turning it into an Aspen-like espresso and tofu resort that caters to rich yuppies, the residents of Bull Mountain begin to fear that they will all be fired and forced to leave town. Adding to the turmoil is the arrival of Majors' two daughters Inga, (played by former Playboy Playmate of the Year Victoria Silvstedt) a gorgeous blonde bombshell, and Anna (played by Caroline Dhavernas), Rick's old flame from his Cancun vacation.What follows is a slobs versus snobs comedy in the tradition of Caddyshack and Animal House as the locals try to stop their town from being taken over by Majors and his cronies. The film also directly parodies Casablanca in several parts, with Rick finding himself in a situation similar to Humphrey Bogart's most famous character from his most famous film.The acting or script will never win any awards, but the film does provide enough humor to make it worth a rental. It also features some truly impressive snowboarding footage performed by some of the top snowboarders in the world. I also feel the need to mention David Koechner, who provides a hilarious performance as Stumpy, a hard-drinking, tall-tale telling local who is probably insane.One complaint I have about the movie is that it feels like several scenes were edited or removed entirely so that it would be given a PG-13 rating rather than an R rating. Hopefully someday an unrated DVD will be released.I give this film a 7 out of 10. It's not a classic comedy, but it's entertaining enough to be worth a rental. "}{"Title":"An Excellent Film !!!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Before you see this movie, 2 things are important to know about this film. 1. It is not a snowboard/skiing documentary, 2. It is not an Oscar caliber movie. Some people (the older) expect the Oscar, while others (the younger) might think of it as a doc., with focus on tricks and riding. I guess thats why disappointed haters come post here. It's more a 20ish type comedy set in an Alaska ski town. It has a few scenes of some serious snowboard riding, but that is not the primary focus.It is more about the hilarious undertakings of these lovable characters, and the choices they have to make to save themselves and save their town. This movie would make an awesome date movie, and will have you cracking up throughout. Their a goofy bunch you'll fall in love with. This movie will also make you miss the mountains and wanna hit the slopes. The best pick me up movie on a crappy day. Don't go rent this film, go buy it!! And don't forget the soundtrack, one of the best EVER featuring Foo Fighters, Weezer, Jack Johnson and others! "},{"Title":"Watch it over and over!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie with a fraternity brother at 3a.m. after a night of heavy binge drinking and thought it was pure comic genius. After watching it sober, I still have to agree with my first impression.I love this movie. It is one of those movies you can watch over and over again and laugh at all the jokes every single time. The jokes, while occasionally crude, are funny and silly. The snowboarding action and footage is also really cool, and my buddies and I watch this movie in the evenings before we go snowboarding the next day for motivation. I think its also a very down to earth to film with the setting being very blue collar.Some of my favorite characters in the movie are the old guy Stumpy with his well intentioned but incorrect rantings and the feuding brothers and the pranks one plays on the other when he's passed out. My favorite scene would have to be the house party scene If you liked Out Cold, I think you will like another Jason London film, Dazed and Confused. In these two films he plays very likable characters who are leaders and friends with everyone. "},{"Title":"Funny stuff","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" OK, if you want an intelligent, thought provoking, good movie...this is not it. If you want a stupid, drunken, poor excuse for a movie that will actually make you laugh, see it. There are some really stupid scenes, as well as some really funny ones. This movie is geared toward a younger audience, it is kind of like Grind, only with snowboarding instead of skateboarding. For those of you that don't know, snowboarding is a sport in which a drunken idiot, like myself, straps them self to a piece of wood and slides down a snow covered mountain and does flips and spins and slides across pieces of metal and wood.Plus, it has the six million dollar man in it so why wouldn't you see it? "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Seriously this movie is great, brilliant, stupid humour, it is a muck around movie, to sit around with a bunch of mates and have a great laugh, that is all you will get.the car spinning scene is a crack-up! you have to watch it to believe it! Anna is a gorgeous little girl that any man would love to hook up with at Pedro El'Hornys.Lee Majors plays a great role as the baddie, but was really good. I have fond memories of this movie, because I was on my honeymoon in Jamaica with a seriously bad fever, and this came on the TV and it cheered me up great! I saw it 5 times.Pig pen and Luke are great together as odd couple brothers and Lance the gay guy and the black dude fits in perfect, cant snowboard, but is there for fun! "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Hands down, finis, no contestare this is the funniest movie ever made. I thought I was going to break ribs laughing so hard last night. This movie is a quantum leap funnier than anything like Animal House or Dodge Ball.Out Cold sends up every exhausted cliché' in the movie making biz, smartly, dead on, and funnier than I thought possible. The actors who are the most talented (Galifianakis, London, Garson, Koechner, and almost Lee Majors) nail gag after gag with straight and august virtuosity. Galifianakis especially kicks every scene he's in in the n@ts of funny. John Belushi could only wish he had a vehicle like Out Cold to show his stuff in. . . Never seen a movie like it. If you thought Dodge Ball or Animal House was funny, adjust your viewing settings appropriately and prepare to get assaulted by comedic genius. "},{"Title":"Far from perfect, but very enjoyable.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you've read any of the other comments for this movie, then you've probably realized that this movie is far from perfect. It's easily one of the dumbest movies I've ever seen. But unlike the critics and a majority of the other people who have commented on this movie, I think that's a good thing.I like stupid movies. Dumb & Dumber, Dude Where's My Car, Naked Gun 33 1/3, BASEketball, A Night At The Roxbury, Tommy Boy, Big Daddy, and Mallrats are examples of irreverent comedies that have received an IMDB rating of 8 or higher from me. I've recently added Out Cold to that list. If you enjoyed any of the above-mentioned films, then you'll probably like this one too.The story is pretty simple; Anthony lives in a small Alaskan town and spends most of his time snowboarding with his friends on the neighboring mountain. A big city businessman comes to town, buys the mountain, and quickly turns the town into a ski resort. His daughter is actually Anthony's long lost girlfriend, so Anthony must choose between winning her back and getting a secure job at the new resort, or keeping the traditions of the mountain (freedom and fun) alive with his friends.Of course, the plot isn't important. What is important are the humor and the characters. Personally, I thought this was a very funny film. It isn't as funny as many of the movies I listed above, but it's better than many other comedies I've seen (BLACK KNIGHT, ME MYSELF & IRENE, and BILLY MADISON for example). I was laughing fairly consistently throughout the entire film. Once or twice there was a joke that fell flat, but overall it delivered. The characters were very fun too. Anthony's friends include a pothead, a crazy guy, a cool ex-girlfriend, an in-the-closet gay man, and more.I don't snowboard or watch snowboarding on TV, but I've been playing SSX on my PS2 a lot lately. If you want to see this movie because you want to see boarding action, then you should probably find something else. The film starts off with two really cool snowboarding sequences and from there it's pretty much snowboard free until near the end. In-between we get the above-mentioned plot and several funny gags, many reminiscent of American Pie.Parents should be warned. This film is rated PG-13, but it's pretty close to an R. Almost all of the jokes are Sex/Drug related and this film contains a surprising amount of nudity. The nudity consists of women taking their tops off, and we can clearly see their breasts, but their nipples are blocked from view. There is also a shot of a man's butt and a lot of scenes contain a statue of this bare-assed man.8/10  "},{"Title":"Out to Lunch.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Out Cold (2001) Dir Brendan Malloy, Emmett Malloy / Cast Jason London, Lee Majors, Derek Hamilton, A. J. Cook, Willie Garson Dimwitted comedy about absent-mindedness at a winter ski lodge. They salute the deceased elderly owner who was known to ski while drunk. Considering the finished product of this film, perhaps more than just the owner should have been intoxicated. This film is enough to encourage someone to ski drunk into a tree. Lee Majors moves in with intentions of improving the mountain and that means firing people. Perhaps he should have started with the person who green lit this film for production. He doesn't realize that his step-daughter sleeps with every male within reach. Directed by the Malloys with more promise than the cast. Perhaps shooting a video about a family vacation in a winter wonderland was out of the question, huh? Jason London plays the cardboard lead who was dumped by his girlfriend, but unfortunately not the film's producers. Majors plays a stereotypical villain who will be outwitted before taking ruthless actions. Derek Hamilton has promise for better material. Here he doesn't realize that his Internet romance is a male. A. J. Cook is also featured in this frost bitten garbage. Snowboarding action contains some appeal but ultimately it is a brainless mess that may leave viewers wanting to knock themselves out cold. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Modern Casablanca","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I get a crack out of all the critics who claim this movie has no plot when the movie is clearly a spoof on Casablanca which is arguably one of the best films ever made. The humor in the movie is incredible, so long as you know enough to get it, i.e. Mr. Majors' line about Mr. Majors was my daddy, well actually he was Mr. Mankowitz. which is poking fun at Lee Majors' own name change. Furthermore this movie was a springboard for many of the actors such as A.J. Cook, Zach Galifianakis, and David Koechner all of who moved on to quite successful roles. Don't discount this film simply because of it's stupid snowboarder facade, the fact is that has many of the literary and cinematic elements that make movies fun to watch. "},{"Title":"pretty entertaining","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Very cool snowboard scenes, cute harmless jokes, easy to follow script, friendship, lots of things you want to see in a Sunday morning.These guys are really sympathetic and their always smiling faces give the film a deep peace. Besides there are some disturbing scenes a semi-nude woman takes the film out of family. İf you are going watch it with your family be watch out for this. And honestly what is the secret about homosexuality that often appears on screen. İs there a rule about that, something like homosexual rights. İn this movie the best friend of the snowboarding guys is gay. Where did that come from? I think western people finds something funny or humorous in this homosexuality that we can not understand.Overall an entertaining film for breakfast tea. "},{"Title":"this movie was hilarious","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" i am not the kind of person that enjoys the produced to make people laugh because of the stupidity of... just about everything that concerns me kind of movies, but... this movie was hilarious! i laughed my pants off through the whole thing. the script isn't great, the characters aren't analysed to a psychological level, the actors aren't world-renowned, but i'm freaking lovin' it... don't actually know why. it's something about the whole feel surrounding the movie, about the fact that they aren't trying to produce something that will turn the world round, but most of all - about the dialogue. i don't know... did i mention that it was hilarious? it's been some time since i laughed so hard. it just makes you want to watch it again and again and again... and i can't wait to finish writing this review, so that i can watch it once more. man, i love this movie. the only reason i didn't give it an A+ is because i'm very protective of that grade. but, honestly, this movie deserves it. "}{"Title":"Just lame.","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie has bad acting, poor dialogue, and the plot isn't worthy of the attention, unlike a couple of pranks and jokes. The highlight of the movie is a prank that was already shown in a commercial- in other words, there's no reason to see it.But most people don't seem to realize the parallels this movie has with Casablanca- two former lovers meet years later in a bar (after which, the main character says, Of all the bars in Alaska, why did she come to this one?, much like the line of dialogue spoken by the main character in Casablanca); the female was already in a relationship when they met, which was in a different country from their current location; the female character departs with her actual partner in a plain after the main character tells her to go. All of this doesn't make the movie more intelligent, rather it makes me wonder why someone would tarnish the plot of a classic movie by adding hillbillies and snowboarding. "},{"Title":"Out Cold - Awesome","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is an excellent movie. There is some seriously awesome snowboarding that has been captured in this movie. Out Cold is a guy humor movie so if thats what you'll like then you'll love the movie...The main storyline revolves around a guy named Rick who works at a small time resort in Alaska called Bull Mountain. A high and mighty business owner comes in to take over the mountain and turn it into another million dollar resort. The story details the trials that come with the take-over and the groups rebellion. This movie presents a pretty accurate account of college life and that which comes after it.Watch it and you'll be hooked forever! "},{"Title":"development and dilettantism ruined this one","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Zak's script was remarkably clever - especially for this genre of film. It was full of classical movie references (everything from Oklahoma! to Casablanca) as Zak, through his writing , acknowledged that writing an original teen comedy is an oxymoron. And so he mined his favorite movie for material and came up with a fun contemporary boy meets girl, loses girl, gets girl back, loses girl again story that was an irreverent nod to some old Hollywood greats. Then the D-weasels got a hold of it (I blame the Spyglass kids primarily). They toned down what was best about it and gave it to a couple of neophyte hacks to direct. The result is cheap knockoff that doesn't know what it wants to be (come on - a sex scene with a Playmate with no nudity??!!), populated by actors and directors who couldn't understand what Zak was going for and hence could put no punch into the dialogue. Those of you that like this movie, I wholeheartedly disagree. It's a bad film. Those that don't like it, at least understand that this one started out good and Zaks talent as a writer is solid. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Enjoyable","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  It kind of reminded me of an 80's movie without the nudity and language. This movie really could of been better with an R rating. Why have a Playboy playmate in a movie and not show her assets?  I'm kind of perplexed. It's not like it was a children's movie.  Why make it PG13?  "},{"Title":"A silly comedy in the vein of the Chevy Chase favorite Caddyshack.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A silly comedy in the vein of the Chevy Chase favorite Caddyshack.When 3 snowboarding buddies find out their favorite mountain is being sold to a tycoon with resort plans, they team together with the tycoon's daughters to save the snowboard run of their lives. "},{"Title":"Out cold...how about cold and dull","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Not really anything memorable about this one. It wasn't funny, but it did have some cool snowboarding. And there were your dumb guys as one would expect in your average college-aged film.  But, it did lack your bikini-clad beach/pool party. But, then again the setting was Alaska, so I can see how that was overlooked.FINAL VERDICT  Not very good. It makes you wonder how a script like this gets made. "},{"Title":"Galifinakas makes this movie","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If it wasn't for the improvisation of the actors in this flick, it would have fallen short on the funny scale.  Sure, there isn't nudity and very little cursing, but you don't need it to be funny.  There are numerous scenes in this movie that are hilarious.  All of which revolve around Luke, Zach Galifinakas' character.  He steals the movie away like Jack Black did to High Fidelity.  Luke is the wise friend of the main character, Rick Rambis (Cheesy Name!).  However, Luke's talent for passing out when drinking puts him into some crazy scenarios.  The movie is worth watching just for this alone.  The ending and the plot (aka love story) are pretty bad, though. "},{"Title":"Damn Good Movie!!!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I loved it.  It was witty and hilarious.  They found a good number of young, up and coming actors that made it great.  I love to ski/snowboard and I enjoy movies about it.  I would recommend this one to anyone that enjoys a good comedy.  The best reason for watching it, A.J. Cook (Jenny) is HOT!!! It's worth buying the DVD just to she her.  Plus, she lives in Utah, home of the Best Snow On Earth! "},{"Title":"Good for some laughs","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you are looking for a fun film with no real message to it, you will enjoy Out Cold.  You have to go in expecting nothing.  Although the humor was mostly teenaged-boy humor, the movie did made me laugh and made me want to learn to snowboard.  all around, just a fun, kick back and chill type of movie.  "},{"Title":"snowboarding and beer","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I think that out cold was a very stupid teen movie but I love it anyway. It just came out and I bought it.  Nothing beats snowboarding and beer and racing down a hill with a cup of beer. I love Jason London and Aj.Cook. They were very cute I wish they kissed though that would have made it better. They had a dope relationship but he was not aggressive. Right in front of him he had this beautiful snowboard chick in love with him. I just wish there was a little bit more on them and less on Rick and Ana. She bothered me because she was not for Rick yet he loved her. It should have been all about Jenny and Rick. The other characters just help set up a town that is unique. It shows how people live in little towns and they make it look like the best place in the world. For the people who don't like the plotline or the stupidity....look beyond that and see the relationships and the feel it gives you about culture etc. The town is theirs and see when Ana came for example she ruined the purity of it and Rick. Ignore the imperfections for it is only a movie. Again at the last scene Jenny and Rick should have had a moment on top of Hangmans peak rather than having the narrator tell what happened between them.  "}{"Title":"So stupid that it's funny!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I know that the movie had some gross humor, but for the most part it was a good movie. I wasn't sure what to think when the movie first started, but you get to know the characters and all of the lines become funny. Not an award winning performance, but it will make you laugh. For me, the snowboard scenes were impressive and Jason London(Rick) really fits the part of who he is supposed to be playing. (He will drive some of us girls crazy.) Some say that it is juvenile humor, but all the juvenile' scenes are ones that make EVERYONE laugh. Some were too bad for me to watch, but other scenes made up for it! Those who say that they didn't laugh are not telling the truth. Besides the scenes with the half naked women prancing about, it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Great start for the snow boarding genre","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  So it wasn't the best movie in the world.  The question is, were you disappointed enough to say you wish you hadn't gone?  In my case I'd definitely say no.  I thought it was great.  And I was especially pleased to see a movie of this type being made.  As a lover of snow boarding and a lover of comedies I thought this was a great introduction for other movies of this sort to be made.  There should be more movies about boarding.  I mean how many more films do we need about football and baseball?  I say enough already.  I want to see people crashing down the mountain and having a good time doing it.  Out Cold was a kick ass movie and I might just go and see it again. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie with low expectations and i loved it!!!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I didn't think this was going to be a great movie in the least, but when I saw it I was wrong!! This was better than alot of crap Hollywood has produced lately. Did this movie cause you to think? NO ...Did this movie try and be something its not? NO  ...was the plot simple? YES  Was I entertained? Completely.Out Cold used a very simple formula and it worked. It was just a group of friends having fun and being themselves and trying to get their mountain back. They all had something about them that was funny, and diverse. Another thing I liked is you didnt feel like the jokes were being forced down your throat and trying to make you laugh, you just did cause it was funny...I give this film an 8/10   "},{"Title":"Even a blind man could find T and A in this movie; reach out and grab some.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Well, this movie ought to appeal to the teen crowd.  The females can salivate over the young male actors and the male teen audience can spend their time adjusting themselves.  Otherwise the movie had little going for it.  Lee Majors is the only actor with name recognition for me.  And while the others did okay in their roles very little new was offered in the tried and true script.  It was a relaxing afternoon with several out loud laughs and I give it a 7 point score but realize you won't see this one up for an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as critics said","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Sure this movie was no award winning piece, but it was entertaining for the most part. people who went thinking they were seeing some serious movie about snowboarding may go away upset that there was more to the movie than some snowboarding tricks. I think the continual Casablanca references were lost on the people at the movie since many of them were late teens early 20's. I'm only 28, but atleast I had seen this movie so when they used pieces from it, I was albe to see the entertainment in it. I think this movie does exactly what it sets out to do, entertain & take your mind out of the real world. Its a senseless comedy with a loosely planned story around it that which is good, if thats what you plan to see. If you are going to see tonnes of snowboarding trick & special stunts, find something else to watch. If you want to spend an hour & half just watching a goof ball movie that you will laugh at occasionally this will be exactly what you want. I paid $8 (CDN) to see this & found it NEARLY worth its money. A.J. Cook & Victoria Silvsted didnt make it too bad on the eyes from a male point of view either. "},{"Title":"You'll like it, if you don't expect too much","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  People that go into this movie thinking it will be a classy movie with good plot and acting will leave sadly disappointed.  Of course its not going to be like that.  If you think of the audience they were aiming for (teenage males mostly) than this movie hits right on target.  If you like any of the Kevin Smith movies, you will most likely enjoy this.  It has dirty antics, crude humor, and some great snowboarding (though I admit that it would have been cooler if they had more snowboarding).  Its not as great as Kevin Smith, but it is along the same kind of humor.  Anyways I suggest suggest seeing it if you like that stuff, otherwise don't complain when leaving the theater after I warned you. "},{"Title":"the funniest movie of the year! (Spoilers)","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Tommy and Ron said we should go see movie after Thanksgiving feast at the store. I figured it could no way be any better than the funniest movie ever American Pie 2, but I laughed so much I choked upon popcorn. When that guy gets his manhood stuck in the hot tub, well, it is the funniest thing you'll see this year. Or when the polar bear eats his crotch. How do they come up with these things cause it's an amazing sense of humor. The girl from Playboy is extra good looking and so are a bunch of other fine women in this picture. I wish it would have been rated R as it would be a classic. Tommy didn't like it because he said it ripped off Hot Dog The Movie and Ski School but I think he's wrong. Ron said it ripped off Caddyshack except it had skiing but he still like it (especially the polar bear). My name is Todd M. and I give Out Cold four stars! "},{"Title":"Lets the viewer know whether or not it's fuuny.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The movie was funny in many scenes although sometimes you couldn't understand where they were going with the movie because there were a couple of scenes that didn't make sense, but overall it's a good and funny movie. "},{"Title":"a funny stupid movie","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie with my good friend Gary, and he warned me that this was going to be a stupid Gary movie.  we both knew what to expect but there was plenty to laugh out loud about.  most of the plot was predictable.the snow boarding scenes were very impressive.so if you like juvenile humor & snowboarding, go have fun.  "},{"Title":"Entire production overshadowed by breathtaking performance","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I don't usually do this, but one actor in this film has captivated me so much, that I am going to write an entire review strictly about him. His chiseled facial features and rippling biceps provide a good case against anyone who thinks that Michaelangelo stopped carving fine marble. And his hauntingly beautiful voice is one for the ages, one that plummets deep into the soul of man like some sonic Magic School Bus and penetrates your soul like only Dirk Diggler (and the man himself) could. His presence on the screen is not just magnetic; it causes you to re-evaluate your life. I am of course talking about the one, the only, Derek Hamilton.After seeing this movie, I went to my doctor. He informed me I have 7 broken ribs due to intense laughing, and occasional guffawing. He informed me that if I watched the movie again, I may quite possibly die. But I did not care. I watched it again that very night. I woke up in the intensive care ward of the hospital. The doctor told me I would never walk again. Reader...it was worth it.But there was something else, something deeper than spine-shattering laughter present. It seemed that any time that Derek was not on screen, I fell into a deep depression. My doctor prescribed me zoloft, paxil, but it was no use. There seemed something humanely wrong with not putting this man-- nay, God-- in every single frame of film, and it is the only reason the film is not receiving a 10 out of 10 rating. There is no conceivable reason the credits did not consist of him sitting in a chair reading out names. He could be sitting on the can and it would still be more riveting than the Cuban missile crisis.His portrayal of Pig Pen is the most accurate performance I have ever seen. It has been reported that Marlon Brando died of pulmonary fibrosis. In actuality, he saw Out Cold, and after witnessing the incomparable majesty of Derek's performance, realized that all his method acting training was a gargantuan waste of time, because nothing he had even done had ever caused such cinematic exuberance. He died of a broken heart.I could go on...but I will not. Because every second you spend reading this is a minute that could be spent witnessing the single greatest performance in the history of celluloid. It is said that Stephen Hawking created a time machine, and traveled through wormhole in time when he was 21. When he arrived in the future of 2001, the first thing he saw was a movie theatre that was playing Out Cold. He watched the film, and after doing so, decided to scrap all of his projects, and devote his time to figuring out how Derek Hamilton's performance was so magnificent. He soon lost the use of his arms and legs. You do the math. "}{"Title":"Where was Jeremy Piven??","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie might have been more aptly titled PCU 2, Winter Break. I half expected Favreau (Gutter) and Jeremy Piven (Droz) to make a cameo. Classic snobs v. slobs romp that can be traced circuitously back to Caddyshack, Meatballs, Revenge of the Nerds, and the list goes on. Only this was to Caddyshack what Caddyshack 2 was to Caddyshack.I wonder what the tag line was If you liked Police Academy 4, you'll love this one! Mitigating factors David Koechner Rad footage of people getting racked up during credits - best part of the movie, actually "},{"Title":"great","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" the movie out cold is my favorite movie ever. i am an avid snowboarder. i saw it one night. the next night i went back and saw it again. i watch it at least 2 times a week. i know the whole movie by heart. the reason i like it so much is because i relate to it. i am exactly like pig pen and i look just like Luke. i act just like pig pen. i acted like him before the movie even came out. i am one of those not so smart types and love to snowboard types just like him. all my friends are just like all them in the movie. but we don't have a hot girl like Inga. that sucks. on that note i think i am gonna go watch it now. the movie was very well written.i thought the acting was great. "},{"Title":"This movie is a great movie.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is a great movie I think. Its a great comedy, if you have a since of humor you would love this movie, its very funny, and they got great actors in this movie. I would give it a 10/10! Great movie, you need to see it if you haven't. So make sure you get it and see it because its hilarious, and if you don't like this movie you gotta have a bad since of humor because its funny. Jason London is a great acter, and he did great in the movie and so did the woman who played his ex. There were beautiful woman in the movie, funny jokes, everything was great about it. So what much more could you ask for in a movie. So make sure you see this movie and I'm sure you will very much like it its worth seeing. "},{"Title":"best movie ever!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" well this film as all I could ask for. Great cast and great ideas. The plot is normal but the characters make the entire film laugh out loud funny. Funny and original comical situations. This is a must see if you like snowboarding, or hate it. When I head up to Vermont every winter I have a tradition to watch Out Cold before I hit the mountain! It has all the elements of an Animal House on ice. The fact that they are In Alaska just adds to the humor, who the hell lives in Alaska? I guess if you do, and you're in your mid 20's you work/live on a Bull Mountain. And the good guy gets the girl, there is a crazy old regular that makes everyone crazy, and the drunk brothers make everyone laugh. And of course they all get together to save the mountain from the evil Money Man. Aaah I love this film, I'm gonna go watch it right now. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Yes, I must say I thought this movie was one of the funniest I've seen. I snowboard, so that's one reason. There was some very good snowboarding in the movie. The structure of the movie wasn't the best, but I liked the script, and Pigpen especially. The acting was pretty good. Certain crack up scenes, certain scenes just not needed. I believe this movie needs to be seen more, make it a tradition for King Of The Mountain. Since I saw this movie in 2001, my friends and I have hosted a K.O.T.M. every year. Thanks for a great tradition starter. Of course, that's for everyone who came up with the idea... Some areas could have been better, but to me, that's what makes this movie so memorable. Overall, I'd give it a 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie, hilarious, i could watch it 10 times in a row","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  i would have to say that this is one of the best movies i have ever seen. i've watched it at least 30 times so far. It's funny as hell. I don't see how anyone cant like it. i would have to recommend this movie to everyone. i have to write ten lines about it so once again its a hilarious movie. Pretty good songs in it also like Anytime by Eve 6, Makes No Difference by Sum 41, Island In The Sun by Weezer, Win Or Lose by the Foo Fighters, and Lipstick And Bruises by Lit. there's not much else to say except that everyone should watch it. it really should have gotten better reviews....... i don't have 10 lines to say about any movie why cant it jus accept this.  "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I've had this movie for years now and every time I watch it I'm still laughing my ass off! It shows what it is really like in the cold ski towns of Alaska and Canada. Pig Pen is amazing and reminds me of myself. Its a must see.... it goes good with Super Troopers! Its one of my favorites... its up there with Bio-Dome... and In The Army Now... If you like snowboarding or movies that are like the ones i listed then you'll for sure appreciate what a great movie this was. I wish they'd make another like it. The snowboarders they got to do the stunts were very talented and it was even better when they weren't perfect and don't fall. They wipe, and man does the one guy take it hard. Great Movie!  "},{"Title":"Delivers what you expect","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  In the tradition of raunchy ski movies of the past Out Cold hits on all the classic cliches with a no attempt at innovation, but what do you really expect?  Kubrick never made ski movies.  I wonder if he had the sense of humor for it.  The ironic dark humor of Dr Strangelove would not be appropriate for the genre. The requisite dick and fart jokes are more Kevin Smith's area, and even he has grown beyond that.The key things required are a wacky race on snow, menacing authority figures, inept authority figures, hot chicks, booze and drugs humor, and an anti-hero who delivers in the end.  All of these elements arrive on schedule, as I said not innovative, just fun.If you are in the mood for the Pianist, watch Adrien Brody.  If you are in the mood for goofy good times you could do worse than picking Out Cold. "},{"Title":"Help with some music!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Hey y'all.I just saw the movie. It was kind of fun sometimes. Although, I got one question.The song which is his and his ex girlfriends special song. Whats that one called? Have always been obcessed about it and I really need to know which one it is =)Anyways, kind of a fun movie. I love snowboarding just as anyone else, and it had some great stunts in it.So, I would just like to know, whats the songs name? =) "},{"Title":"Hammer scene","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The scene of the year!! Watch Luke trying to stop a twisting car!! Hilarious! Just this scene makes the movie worth to watch. The actors are fresh and talented. I hope for more of such movies from the regisseur. "}{"Title":"willing suspension of disbelief","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  this is quite possibly the funniest film that hasn't won any awards of all time.  the film as a whole isn't very good but it's just so quotable.  there are so many great moments that you have to see over and over again.  this movie definitely grows on you.  it's one of those where someone has to introduce it to you enthusiastically for you to get it.  the plot is kind of stupid, but the individual situations make up for it.  carpe the diem...seize the carp and watch this movie.  everyone wang chung tonight! "},{"Title":"movie with the funniest scene I've seen","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was really surprisingly funny. I wasn't interested first but then it turned to be really funny. Yes, the easy fun, but really really funny. And some scenes, especially the one with the drunk guy and the car, was the funniest scene I've seen in the movies I guess. "},{"Title":"funny movie","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  out cold is one the funniest movies i've ever seen. its non-stop fun if you want to just laugh at stupid people this is the movie. its good to see lee majors on tv again "},{"Title":"Just like a comedy from the 80's--only good!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was surprised by this comedy...obviously not a good movie in a Citizen Kane or Rashoman sense, but still a very effective comedy.  Most of the performances are up to par, especially the hilarious scene-stealing Zach Galifianakis.  Definitely worth a rent if you're in the mood for a good laugh.  HA!  Just like that. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is great. I can't understand why it has gotten such low user votes. It is great fun, and jokes are very original and intelligent (the car joke). Story is your usual boy-wants-girl but it is something that you forget when you watch the movie because it's filled with great humor and keeps you laughing most of the time. A very good home-pop-corn-movie. See it, by all means. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I think that you all missed the point on this one.","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Did any of you wonder why the main character is named Rick and why he doesn't want to hear a particular song?  This is a remake of Casablanca!!!I would love to have been in the room when this one was pitched!I want to remake Casablanca Oh yeah? Yeah, except this time it is going to be about a mountain instead of a bar and it's gonna be about snowboarding instead of war. I love the way you think! "},{"Title":"basically a contemporary Casablanca remake","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  SPOILER!!!! the whole love-story plot line was the same as Casablanca. boy meets girl in foreign country, boy leaves without girl, girl comes to town where boy lives, has boy's best friend play their song, girl ends up being engaged, boy send girl home with fiance. It was a funny movie, but could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  It is the most underrated movie ever made.  Out Cold had terrible commercials but it had a great story.  If you want to see a funny snowboard movie this is the one two see.  It was great.  Although it starts out shakey it gets really funny.  This movie is great you need to see it! 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"the funniest movie ever","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  what can one say about this movie? well first of all the brother-to-brother pranks were haggard but funny as s***. then some of the antics that the gang get into were laugh out loud funny. and finally, ANDREA (A.J.) COOK IS HOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! well there i said my 2 bits about this movie so now I'll review the next one. signing off,    brendan(bam) margera(not the skater but i carry the same name) "},{"Title":"I actually enjoyed the flick","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  To tell you the truth, I thought it was a pretty funny movie.  I thought it was clever, actually had somewhat of a plot, and was just funny as hell. Jason London played the roll pretty dam well, and that big guy with the beard, I thought, was funny as hell.  It was well written, and was just a light comedy.  Overall I rate it a 8/10 "}{"Title":"An idiot movie with real characters.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  (spoilers)I haven't laughed at a movie in a long time.  Last comedy I've seen was Super Troopers and that was insanely horrible.This movie is just the opposite.  It's totally funny, and they actually make an attempt to provide solid characters.  The plot is nothing new, but at least there is one.If your looking for a Caddyshack type movie on the snow... hey by all means.  A few things to gripe about though.  It's hard to root for the good guys providing a bad day for Lee Majors.  He's always the good guy to me. (billion dollar man) And this movie made a tad laughing stock out of him.  When a blond idiot upstages Lee Majors, that's bad.The R rating is rather interesting.  Maybe it's the dialogue.  There's no full nudity in this movie.  Side views.  But except for the auto drain, (you'll see) I don't see why it's rated R.6/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"A brilliant film that once again re-kindles my fading hopes and dreams of a good movie in a world of trash.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Read the title, this is just one of those movies, you walk out of, feeling on top of the world, much congratulations to everyone involved in making this film, or should i say masterpiece. Everything combined added up to one of my favorite films of all time, the intelligable jokes, the original, great plot, throw in some great acting, and that classic feel-amazing that i haven't gotten since Good Burger! Just experience all the adventures, or should i say misadventures and shenanigans these hoodlums trick themselves into one after another is so entertaining and even more exciting that it makes me almost crap my pants! I never liked snowboarding untill i saw this movie, some scenes are just to powerful, that you know you'll never think the same again after this experience. The only thing it lacks is some more mature humor, I mean Rob Shneider would be PERFECT in the gang! just an addition of that Classic humor would cause plates in inner earth to shift from the laughter erupting. Anyway you have to see this movie, so don't be a fartknocker and buy it right now!!!!! "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A bigger waste of time you will rarely experience. Keep that in mind when you rent this thing. It is not nearly as entertaining as those 80s ski bum films, and they were pretty lousy to start with. The plot is nonexistent, the acting terrible. I would have been happier watching 90 minutes of snowboarding sequences. My youngest, who I rented this for, walked out of the room halfway through. "},{"Title":"Funny but annoying","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is very reminiscent of the ski bum flicks of the eighties.  It is kind of a kick to watch for that reason alone.  The only thing that bothered me was the sunshine.  Living in Alaska where the movie is set it has been my experience that you do not have both snow and any day light at the same time.  So other than that which will probably only bother a small portion of the audience it's a worthwhile flick if you feel like turning off your brain and enjoying a comedy. "},{"Title":"my wife forced me to watch...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I rolled my eyes when I saw the video store screeners she had in her bag, somthing called Forsaken, and this one.  Luckily she also had Session 9 (but thats another review isn't it?) However, the movie we watched first was.... Out Cold.First of all, I was expecting a horrible mix of horndog humor, drugs, and sports bloopers.  Well I got that and more.  Sometimes this could have been a bad mix, this time...it was worse.Although I can appreciate gratuitous nudity, humorous injuries, clique'd plots, and other facets of the teen movie,  I have no capacity for bad acting, and even less for annoying characters.  This movie had that and more. (Spoilers) The main character was whinny, and boring.  For whatever reason, Lee Majors thought he was the best worker at the lodge, and promotes him.  We've only really seen Jenny working, barely, but thats not important.  His character lacks any depth other than he hates a song, and he can't get over a girl. Whatever.  He's not nearly annoying as his friends.The acting of his friends seems to be their ability to laugh and scream, and mutter a few words like testicle once and a while.  Hell I can do that, and I'd do it for half the amount of money these idiots probably got, Hollywood take note, I can say five words and laugh very easily.The only other problem I had was with the character Lance.  Why oh why is there a gay character in every movie lately, especially stupid movies? I'm not homophobic, in fact i'm bisexual.  I just don't think that gay characters add anything to films, unless the plot hangs on this somehow. For example lance could have found out that Majors was gay also and embarass him with photos of their steamy love session.  Or somthing, other than an excuse to use the phrase Macho Man.Well anyways, if you have 90 minutes to kill, you've seen every other dumb movie out there and crave more, and you are drunk enough not to care about horrendous acting, I guess you could watch this movie. "},{"Title":"out in the trash","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Out Cold was not very funny. Although it had a few one-liners and it tempted you with Inga but didn't show any women naked.  The characters weren't funny.  The snowboarding was very limited.  I would not recommend wasting your money on it. "},{"Title":"hot dog the movie part 2","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  We need a movie like this at this time. This is just like hot dog the movie but better. This movie had it all snow,girls,beers,jokes and more. I hope they make more movies like this because we need it I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"MAKES HOT DOG THE MOVIE LOOK LIKE CITIZEN KANE","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OUT COLD (2001) ** Jason London, Lee Majors, Willie Garson, Zach Galifianakis,  Flex Alexander, A.J. Cook, David Denman, Caroline Dhavernas, Derek Hamilton,  Adam Harrington,  Victoria Silvstedt.  (Dirs Brendan and Emmett Malloy)Remember the &#145;80s?  And all those kooky, sex drenched comedies like Hot Dog The Movie and Better Off Dead?  Well imagine if those two films bred and had a child today.  That would be this movie, a pale imitator to the crown of crass taste.The plot &#150; such as it is &#150; concerns the Alaskan ski hamlet inhabited by a ragtag gang of drinking buddies who &#145;work' for the local ski resort that is on the skids no thanks to the inheritor of the lodge Muntz (Garson) whose late dad was the inspiration of debauchery intermingled with extreme sports (skiing downhill with his pants down) that the aforementioned rogues gallery of misfits take to heart especially when magnate cum cowboy John Majors (The Artist-Formerly-Known-As-Steve Austin The Six Million Dollar Man, Majors looking surprisingly out-of-shape) decides to sink his claws into the struggling business to make it his own (namely a corporate funless spa for the nouveau riche). That won't do for Rick (London, best known as Pink in Dazed and Confused), the good-looking, likable slacker whose comrades including idiot siblings Pig Pen and Luke (Hamilton and Galifanakis), token black guy Anthony (Alexander) who has issues skiing down steep mountains, closeted flamer Lance (Denman) and tomboy hottie Jenny (Cook).  To make matters worse Rick's old girlfriend Anna (Dhavernas) arrives and turns out to be Majors' daughter.  Anna hurt Rick real bad (think another Rick, Blaine of Casablanca  and how he hurt bad when he found out his true love came back in all the gin joints in all the world&#133;)  Faced with unemployment and a lack of a life without the snowboarding shenanigans for these buds they decide to fight back. The usual pedestrian, sophomoric hi-jinks ensue largely thanks to the diminutive, scruffy Galifanakis &#150; i.e. having sex with a Jacuzzi; his frequent drunken passing-outs; etc.  And add to the mix former Playboy Playmate (1997) sex kitten Silvstedt, an Anna Nicole Smith clone, who quite frankly doesn't even get naked (!)  Toothless sex comedy should be more accurate. The snowboarding/skiing stunts are the true stars of the film but even that is a stretch.  Too bad in these politically correct times; snobs vs. slobs is always a welcome even if it is going through the motions.  "},{"Title":"I can't even begin to describe this movie","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Definitely one of the dumbest movies of the year (but for the title of Dumbest Movie of the Year, it will have to compete with Freddie Got Fingered, among others). But, if you go into the theater without expecting much, you will probably laugh. I was infuriated by the various comments that said this is the funniest movie ever, because it certainly isn't.It's full of cliches - the annoying teen-movie romance, the drunken party-loving jocks, the locals with funny accents - and it definitely should've been rated R (the MPAA has lost all their bearing in the practice of letting trash like this just get away with enough sex, drugs, and crudeness to keep it at PG-13), but there are just so many dumb jokes that you're bound to laugh at a few. You'll leave the theater slapping yourself for laughing at it, but maybe you just couldn't help it. If you want an example of the kind of humor used in this movie, take for example the scene in which the employees of the ski resort are told to do their business in a cup for drug tests...and one employee brings back a cup full of his feces.The bottom line Don't expect more than a horny guy's vision of a crude movie which will appeal to other horny guys. "},{"Title":"Another should've been rated R dumbfest","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Out Cold is another film that has been made for the supposed crowd of teens who can't get into a rated R movie but can see this PG-13 clean cut of teens drinking and partying and cursing just enough to pass it on the mpaa sheet.  It has a fair concept but it is made worse by it's restrictions to go to where it could've gone.  It's plot has a group of partying misfits in an Alaskan ski town who want to stop a corporate guy from taking over their resort and town.  Very stupid comedy offers up a couple of good gags and jokes, but not enough to make up it's flaws and certainly not enough to make it reccomendable.And one more note (from a guy's perspective) what is the point of having Victoria Silvstedt in a PG-13 movie when she does so much to try and make it a R movie (the hot tub sequence for example)?  Oh well as usual.  C- "}{"Title":"Did I ever tell you about the time I invented snowboarding?","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Out Cold tries hard to capture the tween audiences without fully using the infamous raunch button to be successful. It tries hard to give the audience a graceful combination of physical humor, sexual slap-stick, classic Hollywood references, and X-treme sport clips, but in the end it face plants hard into the cinematic pavement. While I will not be generous to this film, I will begin this review by mentioning how proud I am of Out Cold. Again, this was nowhere near a good film, but as a person that watches films on a consistent basis, I saw Out Cold as a film that tried really hard to be humorous, original, and creative, but just failed miserably. One must give credit to those films that fail while trying, because so many films today just, honestly, fail to try. Unoriginality seems to be a common theme among these tween films, as big boobs, beer drinking, and cliché characters invade the screen more often than humorous dialogue that invades your mind and into modern culture. Out Cold aims towards a general audience that I despise. That audience is one that will pay top dollar for stupid humor that demonstrates no talent and a considerable lack of creativity. Why do we, as audience members, do that? Is it that difficult for us to laugh at intelligent humor? While Out Cold did not begin the trend in Hollywood, it did contribute to it, and thus continuing films like Date Movie, American Wedding, and Dude, Where's My Car to plague our theaters.I think I have spoken enough about my personal belief on why this film was a wart on the back of Hollywood, so let's look at actual reasons why this film tried and failed. I have to get this first one out in the open. Why, painfully I ask this question, did the filmmakers see the quality in combining tween humor, snowboarding, and Casablanca together in one film? The first two matched, but the last was just pure rubbish. Outside of an adult audience, not many children or teens would catch the classic Hollywood film reference, thus completely ruining the remains of a dying film genre. Now, when the audience of Out Cold actually connect Casablanca to Out Cold, they will say lines like This movie is just like Out Cold. This makes me so angry. If parents would raise their children correctly in film most will say, Out Cold took quite a bit from Casablanca, instead of the other way around. Casablanca needs to come first. With that said, our biggest pitfall to this film was the characters. Were there any? Great question! I didn't see any. Instead, I saw actors reacting to certain situations. There were no definitions to anyone. Sure, one could argue that there were some characters with Pig Pen and Inga, but when I see these moments, I see clichés, not characters. Anyone can play a druggie, stoner, big-breasted woman, town idiot, and so forth, but it is how that actor chooses to redefine that overused character that really sets a film apart from the rest. Nothing of the sort happened here. Jason London was horrid as the title character, and his supposed girlfriend was as bland as Illinois. Jason's friends were obnoxiously unexciting and Lee Majors walked on set, said his lines, and walked off. Again, there was nothing of value. Nobody went beyond the lines on their script, which ultimately hurt the overall viewing experience of this film.If I were to pick one element that kept this film from completely drowning would be the use of David Koechner, of whom I cannot help but laugh at whenever he opens his mouth. He is the prime example of what I was hoping the direction would be for these filmmakers. He was a unique character for Bull Mountain and thus created some of the better lines for the film, if only the rest of the cast would have taken his lead. Yet, I do not blame the cast for it all, the filmmakers (the Malloy brothers) had to make the underlying decision to either make another tween film, or sharpen the humor and aim towards a smarter audience. As you may or may not have noticed, they went with the latter. The entire King of the Mountain bit was horrendous, not because of the storyline element, but the fact that everyone's beer was flying, nobody recognized anyone, and only the characters we were familiar with were winners. Just disrespectful to the rest of those that inhabits Bull Mountain. The funniest bit that I think the Malloys were able to pull off were the brotherly pranks pulled when one was too drunk. The first one with the polar bear was not funny (rather juvenile), but the one with the car continues to put a smile on my face. It was this type of humor that I was expecting the entire film, but overall continued to keep falling short.Overall, Out Cold felt like your last pick to be your date for prom. Sure, there were some elements that were decent enough to smile at, but most of the time you were embarrassed to be seen with her in public. I am tired of this tween genre of film, and while I know that due to an increasing decline in intelligence in our theaters we will only continue to see more of this type of movie, I am still tired of it. It is as if most directors are just using the cut & paste feature on their editing machines bringing us the same jokes that have been told once with success, but over time, they just become boring. Again, I will say that of most of the films in this genre, Out Cold did try a bit harder to be beyond the mold, but in the end it was nothing spectacular.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Very boring, uneventful film. Oh, and NOT FUNNY.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This film came highly recommended to me, and now I have to question everything this friend of mine says in the future. This movie most closely resembles Wet Hot American Summer, except that it's at a snowboard resort in Alaska, rather than some summer camp. It is equivalent in so many ways, but most importantly, in the fact that neither is all that funny, and the story is boring.I sat through the end of this thinking it had to get better. Oh, it did. Well, it tried. For about three minutes before the credits rolled, they showed some bloopers. It's snowboarding, so there were bound to be a few wipeouts. These would have been better on America's Funniest Videos with a voice-over, background music and sound effects. Yes, even Bob Saget voice-over! This is rated PG-13, but I think a PG would have been fair. No cussing, NO NUDITY (even though plenty of situations called for it), no drugs, and did I mention a boring story? Don't get it for the kids, but DEFINITELY don't get it for the grownups.Save yourself time and trouble and skip this. It presently gets a 5.4 from IMDb.com and there is a reason. See the If you like this we also recommend Rat Race movie. THAT's comedy. Van Wilder is funny. Porky's, Eurotrip, and Office Space. I could go on.Walt D in LV 12-12-05 "},{"Title":"I don't get it (no I'm not retarded)","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The movie was all right, and I frequently enjoy stupid movies, but one thing about this didn't jive with me.  Why did they have to rip so hard on Casablanca? Of course the whole nobility of giving up on a lost love is a timeless theme that has been done before and since Casablanca.  But why go to all the trouble of having the main character be Rick and the lost love interest have a European accent?  And lines like I told you never to play that song, You're getting on that plane, We'd lost that until you came here, and so forth are just so blatant if you're a fan of Casablanca.  Of course what are the odds that viewers of this movie have even seen Casablanca? Which leads me to two possible reasons for ripping off a 50+ year old movie1. It was meant to be some sort of funny inside joke (b/c obviously most under 20 snowboard heads aren't going to be amused)2. They thought Casablanca was sooo good that they could rip it off and since their audience was young they would think nothing of the fact that a ton of lines were rip offs. Either way seems pointless to me... "},{"Title":"This movie could've been a cult classic, if it didn't suck so bad...","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I am one of those people who take stupid comedies seriously.  I was raised on Porky's, Hot Dog (another ski flick), and many other movies about young slackers bringing down the man. This movie should have gone all the way with their jokes (i.e.- the bear eating the salt on the sleeping drunk)... The jokes were setup, with no real finish for the audience to belly laugh at the climax.  It was funnier to imagine what you knew was about to happen, and then splat, the joke falls dead.  Too much of that made me think I was watching a bunch of first time amateurs (ironically most of the primary production crew were first timers, including the writer and directors). By the way, Jason London's long lost love interest in the movie was horrible and not attractive or smarmy enough to be a desirable leading lady.  It reminded me of Sophia Coppola being thrown into the 3rd Godfather flick without casting having a fair say.  The woman he ended up with (A.J.) was cute and had the right look, but not enough flirting screen time with Jason London.Movies that are written poorly only do well when there's more skin and sex, but from the commentary on the DVD it seemed the directors wanted early teens to appreciate it.  When I was an early teen, nothing excited me more than watching boobie movies with my friends.  20 years ago we would've labeled this movie a waste of time and a tease.  I was disappointed, and would suggest people to go into this movie looking forward to the Victoria Silvstedt scenes.  At least her sex appeal never runs dry. "},{"Title":"Confused juvenile sexual innuendo","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was, in short, awful.  It consisted entirely of people getting drunk, and people (mostly women) getting naked.  It was replete with sexual innuendo and never missed an opportunity to use juvenile humor.  To make things worse, the plot itself wasn't even put together that well.  The movie seemed confused and as if no one really knew entirely where the movie was headed. "},{"Title":"Break out the Kegs...","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  You know how Homer Simpson is always watching those movies where the bad frat boys are trying to fight the mean old dean for control of the college campus, and fart jokes, keggers, and our heroes spending endless hours trying to get lucky just add to the hilarity?  Those clones of Porky's, but with poorer production values?If that's your type of movie, then you'll love this one.  It's just like that, but with snow.  The frat boys are now ski bums, and the dean is a big, bad, two-dimensional corporate J.R. Ewing-type with no redeeming qualities, and a cornball cowboy hat, trying to ruin their beloved ski town. Unfortunately, there aren't even enough snowboarding scenes to make it fun to watch for the love of the sport.   "},{"Title":"A film like `Old School,' though visibly stupid, is smart enough to know its place `Out Cold' is just a big havoc, filled with bad jokes and stupid sex gags.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There's something altogether disturbing about `Out Cold.' It is a sex comedy, but not nearly as clever as `Old School' or `There's Something About Mary.' Normally I would say that this is because of the PG-13 rating, holding back the film, but in this case not so If I took a guess, I'd say this movie is rated R. It's full of crude sexual humor, not to mention nudity.  No, what really makes this film disturbing is its pride; it thinks it is the next `Animal House,' but it isn't. It's full of clichés The token black guy, the big-busted blonde, the druggie, the fat slob, and the good guy who is falling in love with the already-taken girl. A film like `Old School,' though visibly stupid, is smart enough to know its place `Out Cold' is just a big havoc, filled with bad jokes and stupid sex gags.Forgive my ignorance, but I didn't pay much attention to the plot - because there isn't a very deep one here. It's about a band of snowboarders, led by `Dazed and Confused' star Jason London, who try to keep their run-down, Alaskan `Bull Mountain' from being turned into a commercial resort attraction by Mr. Majors (Lee Major's, from TV's `The Six Million Dollar Man'). Stupidity follows, hilarity does not.The plot comes in half way through the movie. It is as if the filmmakers just needed to have an excuse for dropping a bunch of snowboarders on us, so they came up with something ridiculous to introduce their characters to an audience. That ridiculous something was the plot of this film.I must say that after a while, one of the characters started to grow on me. The Fat Slob of this movie was actually obnoxiously funny. It's obvious the directors of the movie thought they could dupe the audience into mistaking him for John Belushi. It didn't work, but when The Fat Slob was on screen I had an OK time. That was about it - the rest of the movie left a dry mouth in my taste. Among many sex gags is this Two men going into a lesbian chat room and flirting with each other, both pretending they are women and both men thinking they are talking to another woman; a man getting his testicles stuck in a Jacuzzi when he puts it on `suck'; a woman riding a mechanical bull sensuously (wasn't that done in `Charlie's Angels 2' and just about every other movie ever made that involves blondes in bars?).the list goes on. It's just not funny, it's a bunch of dumb gags.This brings me to my conclusion The PG-13 rating is a disgrace. I was astonished to find nudity in this film. Not just once or twice, but numerous shots of the sides of bare female breasts. This movie flopped at the box office, and it appears that it was so small a film that it even slipped by the rating system. It pains me to know that a film like About Schmidt, a moving film anyone 13 or over should see, gets tagged with an R-rating, yet a stupid, sex-comedy like this breezes by. The MPAA amazes me more and more every day.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER!!!!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Out Cold is the BEST movie ever made!  Every day I try to model my life after this movie.  Every line in this movie is the funniest thing I have ever heard in my entire life.  I own two copies of this movie.  I can only hope to be as cool as any one of those people in the movie, especially Pigpen.  MLDinTN must not have one cell of humor in his entire being. "},{"Title":"one line summary","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is pretty worthless, even as dumb fun. The amount of times the plot so willfully falls prey to predictable cliches almost made me wonder if it was meant to be a subtle satire, and if that was the case then there may be some genius at work here, but I'm probably giving it too much credit. "},{"Title":"Go watch Animal House","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Go on, do it.Blatant rip-off, aimed, I think, at people who consider Animal House old, not attention grabbing newfangled cack, something previous to 2000, and, obviously previous to the invention of humour. Damn screwball comedies, don't make 'em like they used to.Substitute the snowboarding antics for actual comedy, and you've got a brainless, pointless, i-could-make-a-better-movie-i-can't-believe-there was-two-directors-and-this-film-still-isn't-worth-a-sh--Just go and watch Animal House.My friends went on and on about how funny it was, it wasn't, it's excruciatingly bad.Oh, except for one scene, but I had to take my brain out and flush it down the toilet to accommodate the space to grasp sush sharp wit.I hate using sarcasm, it truly is the lowest form of humour, but its the only way to relate to this ludicrous waste of cash, its own level, Jacques Cousteau could never get this low. "}{"Title":"If nothing else,proves Victoria Silvstedt can look just as sexy with her clothes on","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIf only we could see more of her,either way.Because without her,Out Cold is really just a very believable flick for teenage kids.Cool surfing sequences,hot chicks and a really ace soundtrack.When all this is covering up a totally cohisionless story,this couldn't be more apparent.** "},{"Title":"This movie could've been a cult classic, if it didn't suck so bad...","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I am one of those people who take stupid comedies seriously.  I was raised on Porky's, Hot Dog (another ski flick), and many other movies about young slackers bringing down the man. This movie should have gone all the way with their jokes (i.e.- the bear eating the salt on the sleeping drunk)... The jokes were setup, with no real finish for the audience to belly laugh at the climax.  It was funnier to imagine what you knew was about to happen, and then splat, the joke falls dead.  Too much of that made me think I was watching a bunch of first time amateurs (ironically most of the primary production crew were first timers, including the writer and directors). By the way, Jason London's long lost love interest in the movie was horrible and not attractive or smarmy enough to be a desirable leading lady.  It reminded me of Sophia Coppola being thrown into the 3rd Godfather flick without casting having a fair say.  The woman he ended up with (A.J.) was cute and had the right look, but not enough flirting screen time with Jason London.Movies that are written poorly only do well when there's more skin and sex, but from the commentary on the DVD it seemed the directors wanted early teens to appreciate it.  When I was an early teen, nothing excited me more than watching boobie movies with my friends.  20 years ago we would've labeled this movie a waste of time and a tease.  I was disappointed, and would suggest people to go into this movie looking forward to the Victoria Silvstedt scenes.  At least her sex appeal never runs dry. "},{"Title":"I have to admit it, i liked it","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was funny funny stuff. I laughed through the entire movie, i wasnt expecting an oscar winner i hate going to every movie and people come out of the theater and say well that was no american beauty no s***, not every movie is gonna have tonnes of drama and such, this was just a funny ass movie, very entertaining which if people dont know by now thats what movies are supposed to be entertainment and this one pulled it off. 8.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's been done better before.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"       Ever since movies like Meatballs, Caddyshack, and Animal House came out and became huge hits about 20 years ago, studios have been trying to replicate the teenage sex comedy type movie about a bunch of beer drinking friends.  The have succeeded in some cases (American Pie), but most of time they fall flat on their face.  The ideal of putting them in a ski lodge, like this movie did, has been done several times before in movies like Hot DogThe Movie, Ski School, and Ski Patrol.       The big difference between those movies and this one is that it's trying to be a teenage sex comedy movie without the key asset that those types of movies need Sex and Nudity.  There is a lot of implied sex and nudity, but not a lot shown.  There isn't even much swearing in this movie.  This is probably because the studio required them to get a PG-13 rating for the movie.       Besides the teen sex comedy theme, there is no reason to come see this movie.  There are a couple of good skiing/snowboarding shots but they are pretty brief and infrequent, the acting is suitable but not great, and the storylines are fragmented and sometimes confusing.  For example, there is a scene (shown in the commercial for the movie) where a guy says I need some paint, a bucket, and a pound of salt.  Later you see him with the paint, bucket, and salt but you never really find out what he needs it for.  There are a lot of scenes like that.      If you want to see a movie with great skiing or snowboarding there are a bunch out there.  If you want to see a teenage sex comedy rent one of the movies mentioned above.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever Made!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Okay I have to admit when I saw the preview for this movie I was like Oh that is WHACK! but after I saw it I realized that it was one of the best movies ever made. Imagine actors you've hardly ever heard mentioned coming in to a movie and making you laugh your butt off. Though the commercials make it look dumb, it is amazing! Much more laughs than 'Shallow Hal'! "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before?","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I liked this movie better when it was first made in 1991 and called Ski School.  This low budget knock-off has maybe two real laughs, a horrible script, bad acting, and poor direction.  It's only redeeming quality is footage of hot dog skiing.  Skip this one. "},{"Title":"worst teen movie of 2001","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Think of the worst movie you've ever seen and this is worse. The snowboard scenes (shorter than you think) are the only things redeeming in this lame-brain movie. At least other lame brain movies (like anything Adam Sadler or something like Caddyshack) will make you laugh out loud with its stupidity. This? I'd rather be stuck with Richard Simmons doing aerobics in the north pole ice cap than see this stinker again. I knew I should have watched Harry Potter again.  "},{"Title":"It sucks! Big surprise!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of all this teen movie crap. They are too clean-cut, have dumb sexual jokes, no coherent plot, and are predictable from top to bottom. Out Cold (2001) is one of those movies. If you've seen one teen movie, you've seen this one too. Totally generic and non-innovative. I thought this movie would be bad when I saw the preview for the 50th damn time (it's everywhere on TV), and it was. Talk about a disaster..sigh..and I thought Not Another Teen Movie would put a stop to this crap ala Scary Movie and the teen slashers. Oh well, maybe it will. "},{"Title":"Sucked, Sucked, Sucked, Sucked, Sucked, Sucked, Sucked.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Three Words THESE MOVIE SUCKED, It was horrible absolutly horrible worst movie I've ever seen. I wish i would have shot myself before seeing this movie. It was very dumb and i wouldn't waste me money on this horrible, horrible, movie. You cant even call it a movie. It is stupid HORRIBLE DONT GO SEE I PROMISE YOU WILL HATE IT "},{"Title":"Something Of A Guilty Pleasure...","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" ... Except there's no pleasure involved and I'd feel kind of guilty not warning you this is a very unfunny comedy I guess the producers were trying to dig into the market of the American Pie demographics or possibly of the SCARY MOVIE fans and in many ways it does seem to try to emulate the near the knuckle humour of these film series except at the last moment it pulls back . How many times watching this movie do you feel there's going to be a gross out punchline then at the very last moment it's cancelled ? This gives the whole film a very bizarre feel There's a vague plot involved with a property land developer trying to buy a snowboard resort but at no time does this feel cohesive to the screenplay in anyway because thge screenplay seems more concerned at trying to fit as many predictable ,juveniule , unfunny gags as it can within the running time . It also says something when the two most famous cast members are Lee Majors and Victoria SilvstedtOUT COLD gave my funny bone frost bite "}]