[{"Title":"A Likable Love Letter to 1960s Eurocinema with Marvy Mellow Music","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Paul Ballard (Jeremy Davies), a young film editor living in Paris in 1969, gets his big directorial break when DRAGONFLY, the sexy futuristic (it's set in 2001!) spy flick he's editing, loses not one but two directors.  It should be noted that Paul's been filching black-and-white film from the DRAGONFLY production company to make his own rather self-indulgent cinema verite film at home. Once he's at the helm of the big-budget SF schlockfest, Paul has a hard time distinguishing between real life and reel life as he falls in love with the bewitching Valentine (Angela Lindvall), an activist-turned-actress making her film debut as Agent Code Name Dragonfly.  Think of this comedy-drama as a sort of 8½ or DAY FOR NIGHT for the baby boomer generation. It's clear that writer/director Coppola (Francis Ford Coppola's son, big shock -) has great affection for the art of filmmaking in general and for kooky, cheesy 1960s Eurocinema romps such as BARBARELLA and DANGER DIABOLIK in particular (neat in-joke the leading man of those films, John Philip Law, appears in CQ as Dragonfly's spymaster). The score by the appropriately-named Mellow captures the mod mood music of the era delightfully. At times Paul's self-absorption became as grating to me as it did to his long-suffering girlfriend Marlene (Elodie Bouchez), but the spoofery of filmmaking and the 1960s won me over. The excellent cast helps a lot, particularly Dean Stockwell's touching turn as Paul's father, the ever-smooth Billy Zane as Dragonfly's revolutionary adversary/lover Mr. E, and the hilarious performances of Giancarlo Giannini as a Dino deLaurentiis/Carlo Ponti-esque producer and Jason Schwartzman as the wild 'n' crazy replacement director who gets replaced himself after he breaks his leg in a sports car accident.  Don't blink or you'll miss Roman and Jason's Oscar-winning kin Sofia Coppola cameoing as Giannini's mistress. I was also utterly charmed by model Angela Lindvall in her movie debut (art imitating life -- ain't it grand? -).  It's great fun to watch Lindvall switch from throaty-voiced siren Dragonfly onscreen to sweet, endearing animal lover Valentine offscreen, plus she's got the most expressive eyebrows since Eunice Gayson in DR. NO and FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE. (My hubby would like me to point out that Leonard Nimoy and The Rock are tops in Expressive Eyebrows, Male Division! -) Do rent the DVD version of CQ so you can also watch the entire film-within-the-film DRAGONFLY, which is to the CQ DVD what MANT! is to the MATINEE laserdisc (is MANT! on the MATINEE DVD, too?  If not, it oughta be!) -- with enjoyable commentary by Lindvall, yet!  "},{"Title":"The Third Way","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There are three ways to make a film. You can find a mood, embed it in a style and just  carry the audience into the taste.  You can engage in the fluids of life, the humanity of  events and desires. Or you can concern yourself with the art of what it means to make a  film and essentially produce an imaginative essay on creation.Coppola senior is the second type of filmmaker. Sofia Coppola is the first.In all three, the story plays a role, but never the central role any more than what you eat  has to do with why you are alive. Each of us as watchers have a similar choice to make, a  choice that determines our lives in film.Our man Roman has decided to take the third way. If he was starting when his father did,  the `third way' filmmakers would be the French New Wave guys, plus the early Fellini.  Except for the genius Kubrick, who in 1968 made a film set in and called `2001' that was  itself a third way film, and which concerned the battle among the three ways.Kubrick's three `ways` are three completely independent cosmologies who tussle for  control over the film the humans, the machines, and some undefined supernatural  consciousnesses. It is a masterpiece of self-reference.Now along comes Roman and makes a film in 2001, set in 1968 about a science fiction  film. It deals with the same three agents, this time as discrete films the human diary of  Paul, the scifi film and the wrapper film.That scifi film stands for the style piece. It starts life as a New Wave film, with a French  director who is obsessed with the revolution. It features a Cronenberg-inspired `gun'  (reference eXistenZ about the same three levels) that represents the camera it freezes  things. That director (played by the most recognizable French film icon alive) ensures  that the camera is returned to the revolutionary.The film is then turned over to the `mood' director, here a parody of Roger Corman. And  then Paul, who takes the third way under the nose of the Italian boss, his dad.It is an amazingly clever construction, much deeper and richer than `Adaptation' for  instance because it actually wears what it sews, and integrates the three layers. It  absolutely sets him apart from Sophia and Francis. I'll take one of these over one of  those any day, even if the product is as dreary as `the Auteur Theory.'Others have rattled off many of the references to other films, mostly new wave, but I  didn't see this one the bit at about the stolen film references the chase in `Give my  Regards to Broad Street,' which had very similar aspirations. Instead of relying on  Kubrick, who had worked out some of the outstanding problems of the construction, it  more ambitiously leveraged Alfred Jarry. But alas, it was tedious. This isn't.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"good student film","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Folks, I really, really wanted to like this film. Alas, I found myself looking at the DVD's timer, wondering when the thing would end. So many elements are likable groovy sixties design, groovy music, groovy chicks, groovy references to (truly) groovy sixties flicks with chicks. But it doesn't hold together. It doesn't flow. It doesn't involve you.The self-referential dialog and editing had the cloying and self-conscious feel of a student film. (And I had to sit through plenty of those in college, including my own ;-) Overall, I think Roman has promise, but he has a lot of catching up to do with his sister. "},{"Title":"Modest debut for Francis Ford Coppola's son Roman","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)There are two films within a film in this campy debut from Roman Coppola. There is the introspective black and white, experimental, student sort of film that the young director Paul (Jeremy Davies) is making in his Paris apartment, and there is Dragonfly, a kind of Barbarella (1968) sci-fi space shoot 'em up that he ends up directing. These might be seen as the twin realities of the young film maker on the one hand there are those short films you made at USC or UCLA film school to get your degree; on the other, there are those mindless commercial entertainments that Hollywood needs to crank out for the masses. These represent the bookends of the young director's reality.The third film, the film that exists over and above these two, is the film that Roman/Paul would like to make, a film about what it is like to be a young film maker amid the crass commercialism of the producers, the seductive lure of the glamor that is the film maker's world, and the daily often tedious work of the actual film making. In other words, Roman Coppola is self-exploring in public. He is the novelist as a film maker.Dragonfly itself is indeed Barbarella without the benefit of Terry Southern's contributions to the script or the services of Jane Fonda. It is unconsciously campy and a satire on such films. Model Angela Lindvall, five feet ten and three-quarters inches tall, anorexically thin, and sporting some very serious hair, plays Dragonfly with a kind of Barbie doll intensity. It is immediately obvious that she has the muscle tone of the languid and the athletic ability of a preteen. Yet her character is a for hire secret agent skilled in the martial arts and the use of weapons. Playing opposite her is Billy Zane as Mr. E a kind of Che Guevara revolutionary who is absurdly stationed on the far side of the moon where he is training revolutionaries.In the introspective black and white film, Paul sits on the commode and talks to the camera much to the disdain of his live-in girlfriend Marlene (French actress Elodie Bouchez, best known for her work in the outstanding The Dreamlife of Angels (1998)) who would like him to pay more attention to her.This might be compared (distantly) with Francois Truffaut's La Nuit Américaine (Day for Night) from 1973 in which the great French director plays himself making a film--in other words a film within a film. Jeremy Davies reminds me somewhat of the sensitive, boyish actor Jean-Pierre Leaud, who played in that film after gaining prominence in Truffaut's Les Quatre cents coup (1959). It is easy to see Truffaut's influence on Roman Coppola, as indeed Truffaut has influenced many directors.I don't think CQ (Seek You) was entirely successful mainly because I don't think Roman made the transition from the self-indulgence and showiness characteristic of the very films he is satirizing to the mature project that addresses itself more directly to the needs of the audience. There is some fancy camera work with mirrors and characters seen from interesting angles, and some beautifully constructed sets, and some witty dialogue amid some telling satire of filmland people and their world (especially producer Enzo played by Giancarlo Giannini and Dragonfly's idiot second director), but we are never made to care about what happens to any of the characters, this despite the fact that Davies is a very sympathetic actor.Some of the jokes in the film include the three-day five o'clock shadows on the faces of the young actors. (That style is almost contemporary--not sixties-ish.) The hairstyles of the women with the beehives and such hinted of 1969, the year of the main film, but the eye makeup again was more contemporary than sixties-ish since it lacked the very heavy black eyelashes and eye liner that one recalls. To get it right, Roman should have reviewed, e.g., Blow-Up (1966) or Elvira Madigan (1967), films I am sure he has seen. Another is the view of Paris in the year 2001 as seen from 1970. It is futuristic in a silly way, and recalls some science fiction that exaggerated the technological changes that would take place. Orwell's 1984 (from 1948) has not yet arrived, nor has the overpopulated, polluted world from Blade Runner (1982).Appearing in small roles are Dean Stockwell as Paul's father, and veteran French film star Gerard Depardieu as Dragonfly's original director.Bottom line worth seeing if only because it is the first film of the son of Francis Ford Coppola who may yet do something to rival the great works of his father. By the way, this might also be compared to The Virgin Suicides (2000), his sister Sofia Coppola's first film, just to see who is more likely to best please Dad. I'm taking no bets. "},{"Title":"AUTEUR! AUTEUR!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" CQ (2002) *** Jeremy Davies, Angela Lindvall, Elodie Bouchez, Gerard Depardieu, Giancarlo Giannini, Massimo Ghini, John Phillip Law, Jason Schwartzman, Dean Stockwell, Billy Zane.  Filmmaker Roman Coppola proves to be a chip off the old block (his dad is Francis Ford, duh!) with this sweetly dark comic valentine to foreign films of France and Italy focusing on a struggling film editor/auteur wannabe (Davies in all his squirmy, milquetoasty glory) assigned to a disastrous sci-fi B flick where he winds up being a replacement director and falls deeply in love with his gorgeous starlet (Lindvall, the epitome of sex echoing the leonine good looks of Catherine Deneuve at her start) in the process.  Coppola has a keen technical sense incorporating set and production design, costumes, camerawork, editing and low-key acting to make a picture perfect ode to the hurly-burly world of filmmaking then and now.  If there is a criticism it is that it is a bit slight in its theme (filmmaker's navel gazing fails to see the big picture love is all around) yet there's a nice homage to Coppola's relationship with his famous father in the interplay between Davies and his onscreen father Stockwell, an absent-minded businessman, echoing nicely.  The title is a play on Seek You = CQ.  "},{"Title":"CQ on Reel 13","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the pedigree of being made by the latest Coppola clan member to enter the feature film directorial ranks, CQ came and went from theaters when it was released a few years go. Seeing it for the first time on Reel 13 on Saturday, I'm a little stunned as to why. Roman Coppola proves to be a promising, thoughtful filmmaker and as adept a student of cinema history as his Uncle Francis. CQ is an engaging, if loosely structured movie, managing to be simultaneously inventive and derivative, borrowing from and paying homage to everything from La Dolce Vita to the Marx Brothers.Its primary source of influence is, of course, 1968's Barbarella, here thinly veiled as the fictional Dragonfly, as the film within the film. CQ is about how Paul, a young editor (Jeremy Davies), working on said Dragonfly deals with balancing his career and his relationship as he works on both the big-budget sci-fi epic and directing his own personal documentary film. This set-up provides Coppola with three different planes of action going on &#x96; real life, the black and white documentary and the colorful, sexy, futuristic world of Dragonfly. The fun really begins when Coppola deftly uses these formats to blur the lines of fantasy and reality when Paul, in his search for himself, begins to lose sight of where the boundaries for each of these worlds lie &#x96; or if they even exist.In addition to Coppola's stellar usage of mixed media, the other key to CQ's success is Jeremy Davies, an extremely talented and severely underused young actor who quite possibly should have won an Oscar for his work in Saving Private Ryan and at least should have been nominated for last year's Rescue Dawn. I think there are less roles for him because he seems to insist on making quirky, out-of-the-box choices. However, when a director with vision is willing to roll the dice on him, he almost always delivers an inspired performance. CQ is no exception as Davies brings a believable, uncomfortable edge to Paul. He is a character who is lost and confused, but most actors would play him with a modicum of swagger. Davies makes him neurotic without being nebbish &#x96; as if still a boy in the body a man who isn't quite sure that he wants to grow up. At the heart of Davies' performance, however, still is that extra element of quirkiness that is all his own. It's that extra layer of thought he puts in to his performance and those unusual choices he makes that allows the character to feel fresh &#x96; different than what we're used to while at the same time, wholly plausible.After all is said and done, with all its layers of meaning and different milieus represented within it, CQ ultimately becomes a dissertation on film and the nature of filmmaking as an artform. It depicts the tendency of the artist to lose himself in his work and how said artist can learn to manipulate the art to find his way again (it's no wonder I liked it so much). In that sense, it's a beautifully realized film and another highly auspicious debut from an almost unfairly talented family. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CQ could have been good, campy fun.  But it commits the only unforgivable sin it is b-o-r-i-n-g!  The pace is deadly slow and the plot is fairly confused and so artificial that it's next to impossible to care where it's going.  The story would have been acceptable in a creative writing class from a thoughtful and sensitive eighth grader but this video should have carried a warning label  CAUTION Student film.  Fit for viewing only by relatives of the film maker. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise butchered by an amateur","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching the trailer for this movie, I couldn't help but feel excited.Look at all the swank 60's spy movie references!Well ... this wasn't the movie I'd hoped for. I believe that CQ is Roman Coppola's (son of famous Francis Ford Coppola) first feature-length movie. And I suppose that all first-time directors flail and hick-up in their first (hell, even second and third) films.But Coppola very blatantly tries to conceal all his director and writer disabilities by shrouding the film with 60's pop-culture trivia ... something that I'm sure his hipster handbook directed him to do.The premise involves an American attempting to edit a ridiculously avant-gard sci-fi/spy Modesty Blaise-esque movie in Paris ... while in his personal time he whines and moans about how he isn't adept enough to sustain a meaningful relationship ... all this through the eyes of a camera. And whilst he records his day-to-day life on film ... he neglects his stunning french girlfriend.So ... our young American in Paris ends up taking the reigns of the spy movie and plenty of hijinx ensue.It isn't hard to predict how the movie will end. And if you wait around long enough and can somehow see past Coppola's bloated, pretentious and pedestrian writing and direction ... then you'll have earned a shining ticket to complain about how great this movie COULD have been.And people wonder why nobody remembers (or wants to remember) this movie. Chalk it all up to the futile attempts of a son of a great director to become more than his father.Remember ... even old Francis Ford had to LEARN filmmaking. Anyone ever see Dementia 13? It wasn't a HORRIBLE movie ... but then again ... it wasn't Apocalypse Now, either.Roman's sister, Sophia Coppola has done so interesting work. If anyone inherited Francis Ford's filmmaking genes ... my guess is that it's her. The Virgin Suicides is a really excellent movie. Lost in Translation wasn't bad either.So ... Roman ... keep on making those music videos. Your video for The Strokes was painfully dull ... but it was a little easier for me to switch channels. "},{"Title":"The worst film I saw this year.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CQ was the worst film I saw this year.  Nearly every film I choose to see in the theater is at least entertaining or has something to say.  This film looked like like it was directed by a film student for his Intro. to Filmmaking class.  His father makes great films.  His sister made a good one.  But brother Roman?  NO!  One critic had the audacity to compare this film to Godard's Le Mépris (Contempt).  While Coppola, Jr. did take the same idea, a film about film, he tried too hard to make himself seem European, artsy, and witty, when it's all really just kitsch.  The lead actor carries the same expression through the whole film, like he's either in awe or in shock of this film being made around him.  Schwartzman somehow manages to pull off his role as a flamboyant director.  Depardieu is alright.  The one scene that has any real film spoof humor at all is, surprisingly, not the B-movie scenes, but rather one which takes place in Italy; a montage of shots of several various characters inside a very small car, driving around picking up and dropping off random people.  This was the only thing that reminded me of the cinema I am guessing he was trying to spoof.  Or rip-off.  Or both.  The documentary with the lead talking into the camera and filming various objects has been played out, the ending was tagged on for the sake of a twist or artistic value...  I suppose the funniest thing about this film was the film itself, and not in the way it intended.  No wonder this film was sent back after a festival screening to be re-edited or re-shot or whatever, which makes me curious as to just how bad it was before.  I can't believe it could have been worse than this.  If you want to see a good parody of film check out the Austin Powers films.  Any of them.  The opening to the third is more entertaining and more genius than this entire film.  Lil' Romy, for the sake of cinema, PLEASE go back to directing your cousin's music videos.  Leave The Godfathers to daddy. "},{"Title":"I have seen many movies that irritate me.  This is one of them.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I LOVE Italian genre pictures from the 60s and 70s. I love the look, the plot, the acting, the music, the sets, the fashions. The entire thing.This movie had so much promise, but flushed it all down the toilet. For me the fatal flaw was the main character, Paul. He was not likable. In the least. I could see no reason that he should have any friends, or a girlfriend, or a job. He is a self-absorbed schmuck. In every scene, he has the ability to make his life better (or at least push the plot in a direction that would be mildly interesting). He COULD say or do something to improve his relationship with his girlfriend. He COULD say or do something to make the woman he is attracted to like him. He COULD say or do something to make his boss excited about his potential. Alas. Paul does almost nothing, and what little he does is irritating and/or cringe-inducing. He squints. He furrows his eyebrows. He stares. A lot. He utters the minimum amount of dialogue necessary to interact with the other characters. His utterances are all awkward and and painful to experience. Note that this appears to be the goal of the writer, director and actor. I give them credit in that they achieved their goal. I simply do not appreciate what they have achieved.Paul is not the only fictional character to be a man of inaction. Alvy in Annie Hall. Or Hamlet. However, Paul is certainly no Hamlet and he isn't even an Alvy. Hamlet frustrates us with his inaction and digressions. However, our frustration with Hamlet is ultimately relieved. We are left with a sense of satisfaction once Hamlet finally becomes a man of action. Also, let us not forget that Hamlet is a victim. So even when he frustrates us, he has our sympathy. Paul's life is pretty crappy because he is a man of inaction, not because of some external forces operating on him. His failure to say or do anything meaningful is the cause of his crappy life, not the result of a crappy life.A movie homage to Italo genre films should have some zip, some pizazz. This has none. The movie does have great music, great fashion, great shots. But it is all for naught because at the core of this rotten apple, is an unlikable character who is too lazy to irritate us by his actions. The best he can do is irritate us with his lack of action. "}{"Title":"A big-budget student film that works on some levels.  (Minor spoilers)","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CQ is an exercise in self-indulgent filmmaking that nevertheless has its charms.  Taking the film-within-a-film concept an extra step, it tells the story of Paul, a young filmmaker in 1969 Paris who is working on both a sci-fi schlockfest (director Roman Coppola's homage to Mario Bava's Danger Diabolik) and a personal art film.  As he tries to make something honest with his art film, he simultaneously tries to figure out an ending for the SF movie.CQ is rather episodic, moving freely between events in Paul's reality and scenes within his two in-progress films.  I can't help but think of a line from the movie, wherein Paul is told to connect things, so that the audience feels something.  Beyond a simplistic theme of doubles (a comment by Paul's father leads to an ending for the SF film), there is nothing deeply connecting the scenes presented to the audience.  The director's commentary track failed to provide any insight here, mentioning things like this is my Fellini homage scene and my friend's grandmother told him this story about Dragonflies, and I thought it was neat so I put it in.  Coppola is treating us to his personal relationship with film, without really giving us anything to think about. (Another example from the commentary comes from a scene where Paul opens a letter to reveal a French driver's license, which is not clearly visible, at least on a 31 TV screen.  Although the license is implied by an otherwise unconnected sideplot from much earlier in the movie, I didn't realize what it was.  Coppola's comment on this is along the lines of People told me that nobody would know it's a driver's license, but I thought it was pretty obvious, so I left it.  This pretty much sums up his attitude towards the audience.)All that said, there is entertainment to be had watching CQ.  Billy Zane nearly steals the show with his small role, and Jason Schwartzman is good for a few laughs as well.  The acting is generally very good, including model Angela Lindvahl as Valentine, the star of the sci-fi movie.  Jeremy Davies manages to convey Paul's narcissism without making him unlikeable (at least to viewers who understand the relationship of the artistically driven to their work), which is a fine tightrope to walk.In the end, Roman Coppola has given us an entertaining film, but one which is less thoughtful from the audience's viewpoint than he likely intended. He's certainly a competent filmmaker, and I wouldn't be surprised to see him make a much better film in the future.3 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Lost in Distribution","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sofia Coppola may have got all the kudos with The Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation, but, from a 60s movie buff's point of view, the other Coppola kid, Roman, turned out an even more enjoyable feature, CQ. Shame that no-one saw it. Barely released in the US (and not released at all in most countries), it's an engaging little number that pits underground cinema against Eurotrash movie-making at a time when people still thought even pulp cinema could be the stuff of revolution (1969-70 to be precise).A riff on Sullivan's Travels and 8½, it sees Jeremy Davies' editor of Franco-Italian co-pro 'Codename Dragonfly' struggling to come up with a new ending while making his own personal film with borrowed equipment. Oh, and falling in love with the fictional main character, confusing film and reality (not only is he too busy documenting 'the truth' of his life to see it around him but he even enters the film to sort out a plot hole) and possibly being targeted for retribution by Gerard Depardieu's fired firebrand director. (The door panel that Depardieu breaks that is later framed and given to the editors is actually one that Francis Ford Coppola smashed on one of his films!) Filled with sly 60s cinema references from Fellini to Warhol (even the trailer he cuts for the film is inspired by the one for Dr Strangelove) and with some character touches straight out of James Joyce, the visual influence is much more Danger Diabolik than Barbarella (John Phillip Law even appears in the film within the film), and Dean Tavoularis' spot-on production design and Robert Yeoman's superb photography are both pitch-perfect. Davies, so irritating in Soderbergh's disastrous Solaris, is quietly fine here, Jason Schwartzman has fun as a bizarre hybrid of a young papa Coppola mixed with Roger Corman via Austin Powers, Giancarlo Giannini does Dino De Laurentiis to a tee (with Sofia Coppola cameoing as his mistress), and there's good work from Dean Stockwell and Massimo Ghini as well. At the end of the day there's not much there, but Coppola's love of movie-making makes it surprisingly joyful to watch if you're in a receptive mood. "},{"Title":"Style but no substance. Not as funny as it should be.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Style but no substance. Not as funny as it should be. Not as deep as it wants to be.This is another in the genre of films about the difficulties of filmmaking. A young filmaker is hired to finish a campy 60s sci-fi movie called CodenameDragonfly. Think Barbarella, or Danger Diabolique.But Jeremy Davies is an angst-ridden filmmaker. He's no hack he's an artist. The movie he wants to make is a diary of his life. Hardly original.All the characters outside of Jeremy Davies filmmaker are as thin as rice-paper. Characters that might be interesting, such as his father, his doppelganger, or Jason Schwarzmann as a hack director are introduced and then shown the door without adding a thing.This movie is full of eye candy but when compared to other films about filmmakers such as Stardust Memories or 8 1/2 it pales in comparison. Those movies are funny, provocative with well-developed characters. Those movies have lessons that apply outsideThe movie wants to be comic and campy but its just derivative and there is not one funny scene. The filmmakers describe it as a send-up but what's the satirical target? The actors say it's an homage but I think I would rather a full-length version of CodenameDragonfly.Coppola is clearly amused by the setting as is evident by the visual humor of the sci-fi movie within a movie. But he fails to share why we should be amused.Outside of the sci-fi movie its just a mess. There are continuity errors, the filmmaker chooses a sci-fi weapon after its already been chosen. What?Just because he has a scene were the filmmaker is confronted by the critics complaining about the lack of story, lack of a point, a scene where he admits empty cleverness does not mean that he has addressed those criticisms.I guess if your Roman Coppola you can get away with making a movie about an angst-ridden idealistic filmmaker who doesn't know what he wants to say and so ends up saying nothing. In that sense it may be considered autobiograhical.I would watch it at Circuit City on a wall full of TVs if I had a choice. Watch the 15-minute CodenameDragonfly movies included on the DVD as extras and then send it back. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Multi-layered Cinema","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is entertaining, thoughtful and beautifully photographed, It cleverly mixes documentary with the real lives of it's characters giving a new twist to the story within a story genre. Every actor gives an honest performance in a story that could have easily slipped into the same old tortured artist crap that seems so popular in film today. The soundtrack is very much a part of the story in that it represents the era in which the film is set and the style in which the film within the film is set. Roman Coppola may be Francis' son but he is not a copycat. "},{"Title":"Very pretentious nonsense","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie about making a movie. Such movies may be entertaining, but they need some substance, to do so. It did not happen here, I am afraid. Mr Coppola did not inherit his father's skills, unfortunately (neither did his sister, who can however make movies which one might watch).I do wonder how this movie came to get such rave reviews. Let's see the lead male actor, supposedly a director, is as expressive as a frozen squid and his voice has the same pitch whatever he says, the lead female actress has an expression on her face that never changes, the plot is totally segmented in bits with perhaps one single connecting element, the movie within the movie idea must be more stale than paleolithic rocks... Would that be enough?I regretted every single moment I watched this movie. A walk with the dog is far superior entertainment to this unbelievably lame movie. It's as if a François Truffaut plot were directed by Dick Cheney...Brazil, some other classic SF movies? You must be really joking... "},{"Title":"Interesting but forgettable","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, the film festival crowd probably loved it. But your average, popcorn munching movie goer who has scraped to-gether the ten or fifteen bucks it costs to see a movie these days will probably wonder why he or she made this choice. If it's stamped Copolla it's automatically great stuff, right? Wrong! It's a neat spoof of filmdom's pretensions. But it's terribly in. I worry when film makers are more concerned about entertaining themselves rather than the public. It's interesting as a cinematic curio and it does have a chuckle or two in it. But once it's run its course in the movies and on TV, the dust will grow thick on the film cans and tape boxes holding it. Hardly either epochal or an epic! "},{"Title":"I Liked It!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie knowing almost nothing about it.  I found the movie very enjoyable, particularly the kitsch 60's style of the movie within the movie (actually there are two of those).  Some of the previous reviewers indicated that they didn't like the film student look to the film.  I believe that that was intentional direction and editing which added nicely to the film. Without giving anything away, I felt that the ending tied the two movies together as well as the reluctant director's life much like a good Tom Robbins novel comes together.  I would whole heartedly recommend this movie to anyone looking for something a little offbeat and certainly not Hollywood.  9 out of 10 here.Spoiler Mode for the folks that don't know Morse Code the bit at the end of the movie says Dedicated to my father.  "},{"Title":"Stoopid!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the nepotism capitol of the world comes another junk flick in a fancy wrapper. CQ tells a lame, disjointed mess of a story which is little more than a bunch of silly caricatures, a babe, and straight man Davies running around trying to make a stupid sci-fi flick. I can't think of any reason anyone would want to spend time with this ridiculous attempt at film making. (D) "},{"Title":"I found myself in Roman Coppola...","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and in the characters Paul(played by Jeremy Davies) and Andrezej (played by Gerard Depardieu),together are an alter ego of mine. I mean, a film director who is always unhappy, in fact, which is compelled to work due to the bad taste of the producers and the general public stupidity. In my opinion, that's what Roman Coppola wanted to tell us. The film is clearly an homage to the film Danger Diabolik, directed in 1968 by Mario Bava. Angela Lindvall is a replica of the character played by Marisa Mell(Eva Kant in Danger Diabolik). I am convinced that Coppola would cast her in CQ, if he had not died in the meantime. As he did with John Phillip Law, who is the star of Bava's film, and also the star of Barbarella, made also in 1968. The action in CQ is Paris 1969, one year after, and it feels also the influence of Roger Vadim and the atmosphere of Barbarella. Jeremy Davies is subtle, Giancarlo Giannini is effective, Billy Zane is funny and Angela Lindvall is sexy. I think that many fall into the trap of considering this a farce-action-film-eurospy-soft-love-story. It's more than that, it's a subtle metaphor which says clearly that the film industry is a huge conveyor and how very hard is to create a masterpiece. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Delight","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd seen this movie for sale when we visited the Coppola Winery. I'd never heard of it, but my interest was piqued. I am so glad that I saw it and can't believe that it took so long.This is a great movie. There are so many subtle details, but nothing that happens on the screen in unnecessary.I'm not a world class movie critic, but I know what I like. This is a good movie for movie lovers. This is a good movie for people who like mysteries (it's not a mystery, but there is a lot of foreshadowing that could be easy to miss or dismiss.) This is a movie for people who love the visually interesting (note that when Jeremy Davies character is talking to his dad, you see his dad's reflection in the mirror behind Davies' - amazing cinematography.) "}{"Title":"Interesting Indie film but why CQ ?","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit I was just going to see this film for the close-ups of my favorite actor Billy Zane because its been far too long since I've seen his face on the big screen. However, the film was actually well done and had an interesting 60's tone which is pulled off very well.  But the one thing that bothered me was why the title CQ ?  It had one brief reference to CQ > seeks you but not enough to name a whole movie after it.  Anyway, Billy did a good job and was very entertaining so for all you Billy fans, go see CQ if you can find it playing near you. "},{"Title":"I think you all miss the point","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I am going to be completely honest.  I went to see CQ without knowing anything about it.  I didn't care who directed it or who the main character was.  I went because I am a fan of Jason Schwartzman (dawned from his involvement with the band Phantom Planet greatest band ever).  I was pleased that he was getting serious roles in movies.  So I went to see the movie and I was blown away.  The film was soft and easy to watch.  The story was very interesting.  Nobody on earth knows what their life means and I am sure that everyone has gotten down about it.  Everyone has also had that dream girl in the back of their mind.  They just wish that their life was a movie, so they could get the girl.  Scenes in CQ show this flawlessly. After I saw CQ, I hopped onto IMDB and checked it out.  I had no idea who Jeremy Davies was.  I loved him in the movie.  I think that he was perfect. The usage of the film, Dragonfly was brilliant.  Throughout all of CQ, I wanted to know how Paul was going to end Dragonfly.In a change of topic, I would like to mention something about films that take place in the somewhat recent past.  In too many movies and TV shows about the 80s, everything is overdone 1000 times (with the exception of Donnie Darko).  CQ, however, manages to make you think that it was made in the late 60's.  There was one instance where I thought that they were even poking fun at the era (when Paul's father puts the ugly glasses on).Oh, I would also like to mention the abundance of Comic Relief.  This was provided by our buddy, Gerard and Jason Schwartzman.  Every time Schwartzman came on the screen, I laughed my balls off.  It was a great change of pace from the serious tone.Overall, I give CQ four stars.   If you have not seen the film, I would urge you to.  I already have the DVD pre-ordered 2 months in advance. "},{"Title":"Film about love and the love of films","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Part David Halsmanns Diary, part Alphaville and part Contempt, Roman Coppola's debut feature is a light, caring homage to the cinema of the 1960's.Everything from the sets, costumes, music, even the detail gone into the film within a film Dragonfly captured the era perfectly. Performances by the entire cast were spot on. Giancarlo Giannini as the old school producer who can never decide how many films he has made to Gérard Depardieu's as the director whose films have to have soul and not sell out.Biggest credit must go to Roman for choosing Jeremy Davies to play the lead, as I was constantly intrigued how a creative character like his would finish his journey in this film. Giancarlo Giannini's as the producer even mentioned The most important part of a film is the ending, this is the last thing the audience will remember when they leave the cinema!An important statement as Jeremy Davies goes on to finish his major film as Gérard Depardieu intended and he also got to finish his personnel film, where he discovered a lot about himself through the truth of cinema. The most enjoyable film from all the brood of Francis Ford Coppola. "},{"Title":"Film needed more style and nostalgia","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really love the sexy action and sci-fi films of the sixties and its because of the actress's that appeared in them. They found the sexiest women to be in these films and it didn't matter if they could act (Remember Candy?). The reason I was disappointed by this film was because it wasn't nostalgic enough. The story here has a European sci-fi film called Dragonfly being made and the director is fired. So the producers decide to let a young aspiring filmmaker (Jeremy Davies) to complete the picture. They're is one real beautiful woman in the film who plays Dragonfly but she's barely in it. Film is written and directed by Roman Coppola who uses some of his fathers exploits from his early days and puts it into the script. I wish the film could have been an homage to those early films. They could have lots of cameos by actors who appeared in them. There is one actor in this film who was popular from the sixties and its John Phillip Law (Barbarella). Gerard Depardieu, Giancarlo Giannini and Dean Stockwell appear as well. I guess I'm going to have to continue waiting for a director to make a good homage to the films of the sixties. If any are reading this, Make it as sexy as you can! I'll be waiting!  "},{"Title":"A Shallow but Stylish Film","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All you need to know about this film happens in the first five minutes it looks cool, it has a solid original soundtrack reflective of the late-60s period, and all but a couple of its characters are unlikeable.  Once you get that message, you may as well switch to another film.Davies's protagonist ignores his beautiful girlfriend, one of the few people in his life who cares about him.  Then by the time he takes her advice to join her in the real world--instead of living a fantasy film of which he's the imagined director--he does so by pushing her aside and pairing up with an actress he's idealized beyond reason.  A couple laughs and some thoughtful art direction are the only things worth watching here.The film is also interesting as documentation of Jason Schwartzman's fall from Mount Rushmore.  In Rushmore, Schwartzman's annoying brattiness was something to be overcome, but here it's his character's only quality. Schwartzman's family connection clearly landed him in this role; here's hoping his choices improve. "},{"Title":"Life Creates Art, Art Imitates Life","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film by Roman Coppola is a treat from beginning to end - clever, charming, well-crafted and most definitely easy on the eyes.  At its heart it's about one of my favorite subjects - how one's life creates one's art, and how art, once having been created, re-manifests in the artist's life in unforseen ways.  (As a writer myself, I am fully aware of this process, which never fails to amaze me.)  Roman Coppola has taken his real-life experiences (growing up in the movie biz as he has) and recycled them into something quite unique, entertaining and accomplished. Seek this one out. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was pretty good.  As a lover of campy 60's sci fi I think that I was a little more excited about then others.  This is not a laugh out lout kind of movie, but it is comedic through the situations that arise in the film.  The actors act out there roles very well, the directing is spot on, and the pacing of the film is well done.  The story is fun and the technical way that they made this film (they only used technology that was avilable in the by 69) gives me a little more respect for this movie.  While i recognise that this is not for everyone, it is a good film, and deserves a look none the less.  The talent of the coppala family never ceases to impress me.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Dazzling?  Yes!  Brilliant?  Maybe...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CQ is the directorial debut of Roman Coppola, the latest product of the great Coppola dynasty.  This movie contains two other movies; one is Codename Dragonfly, the schlocky science fiction spoof of Barbarella, and the black and white personal piece by the main character.  Anyway, I found CQ interesting.  I enjoyed the chic 1960's European look.  And the Dragonfly segments were also fun to watch.  The rest, however, was probably trying too hard to be clever.  The most memorable performance belongs to Gerard Depardieu, as Dragonfly's first director.  Although he doesn't have much screen time, he manages to make the most of what he has.  If nothing else, CQ makes for nice eye candy. "},{"Title":"Quirky Good","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This little quirky movie has some nice odd elements to it, an almost romantic fantasy. It's difficult to sort out whether the movie is intentionally bad or is actually good or bad, like a modern dance - it's difficult sometimes to find a mis-step. Nevertheless, unlike many such movie attempts and parodies, this movie like Barbarella (1968) it has a sort of strange disorienting charm and has at least a decent movie within a movie sequence. There are attempted cinematic experiments going on with this movie, many work, but overall, it does fail to maintain a solid, consistent Clockwork Orange (1971) quality. Seven out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"CQ (Roman Coppola, 2001) **1/2","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" To cannibalize my own reference to it in the review I wrote for Mario Bava's DANGER DIABOLIK (1968), this is a homage to the European style of film-making circa 1970 while pretty interesting in itself (particularly its behind-the-scenes look at a lowbrow sci-fi picture), the film unwisely also tries to recapture the feel of an art-house flick by having its wannabe film-maker editor shoot an autobiographical film in cine-verite' style; however, this section is pretentious and fairly boring - as opposed to the charm and sheer nostalgia of the sci-fi/espionage ambiance! The film has two sequences lifted directly from DANGER DIABOLIK the shower scene and the one where the leading lady is covered in bank notes; however, there's another obvious link to that film in the presence of its star John Phillip Law! That said, the sci-fi heroine (called Dragonfly and played by the stunning Angela Lindvall) here actually recalls the Jane Fonda of BARBARELLA (1968)! It also boasts a number of larger-than-life characters (in fact, several established or up-and-coming stars of European cinema are featured) with a background of cinema, which at times is a bit much - as this threatens to turn the whole into a Felliniesque extravaganza! Still, it does have a major asset in Dean Tavoularis' stylish production design (particularly that for the invented sci-fi scenario). "}{"Title":"An Interesting Movie About Movie Making in the Sixties","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie interesting for its depiction of movie making techniques in the sixties. The Eclair cameras, the editing console, the splicer, the wooden tripods -- these are the things to which I paid attention. Elodie Bouchez is a serious young actress who is always nice to watch but in this movie her weepy, bitchy character wasn't very sympathetic. The editor's concern for film as art was, but his soft-spoken, passive personality became increasingly annoying. Is this the sort of guy the blue-eyed babe (ala Barbarella) would be interested in? It's hard to believe. Gerard Depardieu had a brief appearance as the revolutionary director who is thrown off the project by the exasperated producer. Probably the best scene in the movie, the way he punched through the door of the screening room and shouted, Bullshit! was it's funniest moment. I also liked the girl in the miniskirt climbing into the car on New Years Eve who wasn't wearing any panties. Too bad there weren't a few more scenes like that. "},{"Title":"soul and cool style combined","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that Elodie Bouchez's character is like the soul of movie, but what topped it off was the really enjoyable and ingenious portrayal of the filmmaker's ego. Very funny, establishing that certain look in the sort of spirit of wes Anderson's creations, but different, more romantic and cool. It's definitely memorable, beautiful girls are always worth the while to film, it's sort of a homage to those sixtie's classy action chicks, which works more in terms of aesthetic enjoyment rather than character development, nevertheless it was a great goal to for, and adds a lot of cuteness to the texture of the film. Another texture of the film was the whole Paris 60's modern romance look, and the transitions to Rome proved that R.Coppola's sense of structure is pretty assuring in addition to his glamorous and lovable film sense. "},{"Title":"Roman's got promise","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know only of Roman Coppola's work in music videos,but this disjointed effort showed signs of good things to come. First off the film has fabulous color and sound. The music is also a highlight. I think it's the cold performances from the actors themselves that drags it down a little if not kinda make it dull. It does suffer from lulls,but it does bring out that era(1969 France)quite nicely.Jeremy Davies portrays Paul,an editor for a cheesy sci-fi effort about a government agent named Dragonfly(the very attractive Angela Lindvall). The producer fires the film's director,Andrezej(Gerard Depardieu)when he sees the rather stoic ending. The producer want a bang while Andrezej wants a whimper. The producer first goes to horror director,Felix DeMarco(Jason Schwartzman),but when he has a car wreck Paul gets the job. Paul is also creating a personal film about his life and  the truth and meaning of it.He has moments where he ventures off into dreamland and that's also a negative for it seems to throw you off from knowing when the film is real and when it's a dream. it is  He has a girlfriend named Marlene(Elodie Bouchez)who wants a more open relationship which doesn't consist of Paul's constant talk about moviemaking and the movie he's directing. Jeremy Davies is one of those supposed method actors whose method is to whisper and talk slow with a blank expression on his face(oops..I'm sorry..a thoughtful prose..hint of sarcasm). He drags the film down to match his acting style and that hurts. The film feels a lot longer than 1hr30min. It has lots of unique ideas and visually stunning so I think it's an uneven effort. ***/***** "},{"Title":"Strange but Good","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is not for your average film watcher.  You need to have an open mind and a good imagination.  I thought this film was okay and interesting. The actress playing Dragonfly was beautiful even without the makeup.  The end was great.  The woman that played his wife seemed a bit harsh.  The movie was good and I would not mind watching it again to make sure I caught everything. "},{"Title":"Need to like the genre","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies where you really need to like the genre to sit through it.  I don't and didn't.  It often tries too hard to be funny.  If you like dreamy, psychological type movies, though, you may well like it. I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"Good, but not completely successful","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roman Coppola has worked on his father's films since he was a teenager, doing sound on The Outsiders and directing the second unit and special effects for Bram Stoker's Dracula. CQ is his feature film debut, although he is already well known for directing music videos. The action takes place in Paris in 1968 and involves a character named Paul, an idealistic American film student who ends up directing a sci-fi b-movie. CQ is an incredibly layered and stylistic film, maybe too much so. There are two films within the film, and Coppola cuts back and forth randomly, using Paul's cinema verite black and white experimental film to provide the emotional core of the story, while the science fiction film propels the action. It's a valiant try, and while it's not completely successful, I really liked CQ. Coppola has nailed the time and place perfectly &#150; Paris in 1968 looks like the hippest spot on earth &#150; coaxed good performances from his actors and put together a soundtrack that actually adds to the movie, rather than just support it. "},{"Title":"Impressive, fun, first film.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I highly recommend this film for anyone who has a nostalgia for the great halcyon days of 60's European cinema. The plot very loosely revolves around the cast and crew of a Sci-fi, sex romp film, like the cult classic by Roger Vadim, Barbarella with Jane Fonda. The lead character is played at just the right level of smartness and sweetness by Jeremy Davies as a young aspiring film maker who's working as a directors assistant who in a plot twist ends up directing the film himself at the end. This is the first film by Roman Coppola, who wrote it as well, and it is visually beautiful and innovative with a good balance of fast paced story advancement and quieter character development moments, like some between Davies and the great Dean Stockwell who plays his father. I really enjoyed this film and was a bit surprised actually how much I liked it, anyone who doesn't get the obvious cliche ironic cinematic references or can't appreciate some of the campy good spirited fun by calling it Stoopid needs to lighten up. "},{"Title":"Super-sexy secret agent!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great film with many stories to tell, and at its core, it is truly about how you tell a story, any story, your story, your bumbling father's story. Jeremy Davies is excellent as the lens through which we see the intersecting of the lives of all of the film's characters, and it's most compelling when the lens is turned inwards on Davies' character.A great debut by Roman Coppola. Make sure you see it on DVD. The extras are fantastic, and you get to see the real-life inspirations for Mr. Coppola, and how oddly personal the story truly is.But basically, it is a very funny, and at times touching and sweet, film debut.  "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing film","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Affectionately captures the spirit of the 60's sci-fi film, and gently pokes fun at the pretentiousness of film makers.That was the sense I was left with after watching the film.  Then I watched the special features on the DVD. About a dozen features, a veritable Coppola family reunion of self praise and adulation.  The film makers spoofed in the film itself end up much more grounded and unpretentious by comparison.  "},{"Title":"Resembles Fellini's 8 1/2","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***minor spoilers*** This film reminds me of Federico Fellini's 8 1/2. Almost like an 8 1/2 for the younger generation. The actor that played the producer in CQ, reminded me of the actor that played the director in 8 1/2. The traits were very similar loud, angry voice, constant cigarette smoking, bossy, egotistical, elderly, well dressed. I thought the film was entertaining and funny. Jason Schwartzmen ( Rushmore ) does a pretty funny job at portraying a director who acts like a total jack ass. Some of the film takes place in the narrator's imagination, while other pieces are captured on his home camera, as he creates a real movie. Maybe I enjoyed the film more than most because I related to the central character. This director/screenwriter has some major talent and I look foward to see what he can do in the future. How many talented Coppola's are their going to be?7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Resembles Fellini's 8 1/2","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***minor spoilers*** This film reminds me of Federico Fellini's 8 1/2. Almost like an 8 1/2 for the younger generation. The actor that played the producer in CQ, reminded me of the actor that played the director in 8 1/2. The traits were very similar loud, angry voice, constant cigarette smoking, bossy, egotistical, elderly, well dressed. I thought the film was entertaining and funny. Jason Schwartzmen ( Rushmore ) does a pretty funny job at portraying a director who acts like a total jack ass. Some of the film takes place in the narrator's imagination, while other pieces are captured on his home camera, as he creates a real movie. Maybe I enjoyed the film more than most because I related to the central character. This director/screenwriter has some major talent and I look foward to see what he can do in the future. How many talented Coppola's are their going to be?7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Barbarella Meets Travels of Sullivan","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie to be extremely well designed and put together.  It's one of the few films where the production design alone is a reason to see the movie.  Coppola and Dean Touvalaris perfectly capture the ambience of schlock Euro-scifi of the late 60s, and their real achievement is that this never registers as camp.  This film could so easily have descended into parody, but it never does.  Because at its heart its a rather sincere story about how an artist becomes an artist by abandoning his preconceptions of what that means.  Think Travels of Sullivan all over again.The story is varied and interesting, with many different locations and personalities.  The actors are all top notch, including Angela Lindvall, who really has the most difficult role, since her character is supposed to be an empty ditz on film, yet a love object off screen.  She does a very good job.And biggest surprise of all BIlly Zane actually acts!  Who knew?The one failing of the film is the lack of emotional resonance between its main characters.  Davies as the young film maker is too unemotional, too much of a cipher to everyone around him.  Yet we are supposed to identify with his passion for LIndvall and for filmmaking.  But it's a passion that never makes a convincing appearance.  The most affecting emotional moment in the film is a meeting he has with his father (Dean Stockwell) at Orly, a scene that is both touching and serene.  Too bad none of that bled over into his scenes with Lindvall.This is a movie to be savored by adults, not kids or even people in their 20s.  So settle back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"A fun, stylish homage to campy 60s sci-fi that's worth checking out on the big screen.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Director Roman Coppola comes out from behind the shadow of his father (Francis Ford) to make a very impressive directorial debut. While he may have had the initial family connections in the business, he certainly has the talent to back it up. His early work with music videos showed a lot of promise from the aspiring director. This ultra-cool film within a film is quite unlike anything else out there right now. While it may not translate to some of the multiplex crowd, there are plenty of people who will latch onto it for its style and substance. It also serves as a campy homage to cheesy 60s sci-fi. In fact, the movie that they're working on in the film (Dragonfly) looks like something that would be seen on a re-run of Mystery Science Theater. The attention to detail looks great and most of the film looks like it was shot around the same time as Barbarella (in fact, John Phillip Law even has a cool part in it).  A director friend of mine saw this with me and pointed out the plot point accuracy of a director trying to hold together a relationship while filming a movie and being completely consumed with it. While this is maybe something that Coppola hasn't had to deal with himself, it certainly seemed very honest and that's why this works. The characters are likeable and the story is quite good. Backed up with great visual effects and an excellent soundtrack, this one's a winner.  Solid lead performances by Jeremy Davies (Saving Private Ryan) and Elodie Bouchez and humorous supporting roles by Billy Zane, Gerard Depardieu,  and Jason Schwartzman round out the excellent cast to make one of the most fun, stylish movies in recent memory. It will be interesting to see where the promising young Coppola will go from here. Go check it out in the theater if this sounds like fun to you.  "},{"Title":"An artistic piece of experimentation","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roman Coppola shows extreme directing and writing talent in this ambitious and powerful cinematic piece. Although the acting is superb by the main character Paul(Jeremy Davies), the interesting plot overshadows anything of the actual acting. Within the first few minutes, the viewer discovers the existence of three movies being made the main character is the editor of a movie being made by Andrezej(Gérard Depardieu), he is making home movies as a method of personal discovery, and he is also in the film CQ that the viewer is watching. The way each of the story lines intertwines gives a unique and interesting perspective to the movie. Writer and director Roman Coppola has managed to incorporate enough humor and drama into his artistic expression that the movie will be enjoyed by almost all who see it. I give this movie ***(1/2) out of ****. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, it was interesting. I enjoyed it..Some very fine direction here no dought. However, for all of it's fun likable qualities I felt it was still lacking the overall ambition and inspiration that were so much a part of the 60's & 70's. Not that it's such a reachable task in this empty, cheap, homogenized, creatively dead time we live in. If only the 60's saw the early 21st century as the period it truly is. Hopeless, pointless, spiritless, angry, flustered and tragic. "},{"Title":"Art vs. entertainment","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roman Coppola's CQ is not a satire of campy 60's sci-fi, it is an homage, and it's also a very thoughtful film on the balance between art and entertainment.  The movie stars Jeremy Davies (Saving Private Ryan and Spanking the Monkey) as Paul, an American filmmaker working in Paris on the B picture Codename Dragonfly and his own personal project about his life in Paris with his French girlfriend Marlene (Elodie Bouchez).The film within the film, Codename Dragonfly, is a hoot.  It's a Barbarella style film taking place in the exciting future of the year 2001 about a sexy secret agent (Dragonfly) who has been asked to infiltrate a group of rebels camped out on the moon.  Coppola gets the look and style down perfectly, from the bad mattes all the way to the groovy music.  I loved the fact that he includes a scene where it's snowing on the moon.  The cast working on the film is a great collection of showbiz vets and some newcomers.  Gerard Depardieu plays the temperamental director who is kicked off the project. Giancarlo Giannini plays the producer who wants nothing more than to finish the picture, and decides to hire Felix DeMarco, a young hotshot director. DeMarco is played by Jason Shwartzman and he really brings the screen to life every second he's on.  Also working on the film is Billy Zane playing the Che Guevara-like rebel leader, John Phillip Law as the Corporation Chairman, and Angela Lindvall as Dragonfly.  Lindvall does an amazing job with her role.  As the actress Valentine, she displays a sweetness that is effortless.  As the character of sex-kitten secret agent Dragonfly she exhibits great comic timing and understatement.Where CQ didn't work as well for me were the sequences where Paul is struggling to come to terms with his personal film.  Marlene asks him why he wants to make a film about himself, and he states that it's because he wants to make something honest.  She responds, `But what if it's boring?'  I found myself feeling the same way towards parts of CQ.  But my guess is that Coppola is exploring the question of art vs. entertainment not only through the story but through the film itself.  Copploa is like Paul, trying to create something honest and possibly boring while also trying to create an entertaining story.  Where Paul and Coppola succeed in bringing art and entertainment together is through a very nice scene between Paul and his father (the wonderful and underused Dean Stockwell).  Through their conversation Paul gets the germ for his idea on how to end Codename Dragonfly.  The notion here is that even in the silliest of pop entertainment it is possible to inject a personal vision.  After all, despite its campiness, Barbarella is a great reflection of the era in which it was produced.  In essence, it is art. I would recommend seeing CQ for the Codename Dragonfly scenes alone, but Coppola's debut feature is a solid film  with solid performances throughout. "},{"Title":"Excellent debut - a joy to behold.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following his success with commercials and music videos, C.Q. is Roman Coppola's first feature length motion picture, and it is an absolute triumph. The film stars the ever-impressive Jeremy Davies as Paul, an American living in Paris in 1969, working as an editor on low budget sci-fi flick Dragonfly, under the direction of the temperamental Andrezej (Depardieu).After a rift with the film's investor Andrezej is relieved of his duties and it eventually falls to Paul to take over the completion of the movie. However, in addition to this unexpected responsibility, Paul is also documenting his own life on film, and as he becomes more deeply involved in the two projects, and develops a growing infatuation with Dragonfly's leading actress Valentine (Lindvall), he becomes increasingly distant from his French lover Marlene (Bouchez). C.Q. follows Paul as he struggles to find his own identity as a person and a film maker, and offers many interesting parallels not only between his personal documentary and Dragonfly, but also between the experiences of Paul and the director himself.According to Coppola, the film is sort of a comedy, and although not totally without humour, it comes across as a more touching and personal drama. Jeremy Davies once again excels with a sensitive performance tinged with loneliness and confusion, and just as the film contrasts Paul's intimate black and white project with the flamboyance of Dragonfly, Angela Lindvall counter-balances Davies with a sexy display of verve and abandon. Depardieu is typically reliable and Bouchez is also commendable as the emotional but neglected girlfriend.C.Q. is a pleasure to watch the acting is superb, the story original, entertaining and clever, and the shots beautifully constructed and filmed. Striking a near perfect balance between playful and personal, the main story and the 'film within a film' complement each other wonderfully in this extremely well crafted debut. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning piece from a director that shows a lot of potential","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Visually stunning piece from a director that shows a lot of potential. It is clear Roman Coppola's background in music videos has served him well.Jeremy Davis is Paul, struggling to complete an ending to sci-fi picture, Dragonfly, by day, and in his free time, documents his life with total honesty in his apartment. To say much more would spoil it really.The strengths of the film are, along with his direction, the casting of the leads, especially the beautiful Lindvall and the always brilliant Schwartzman. Threatening to upstage the actors though, are the set designs and costumes evoking 1969 and the film's would-be futuristic 2001......Modesty Blaise white as inspiration, complete with shag pile rugs.The film is a must see, if taken, as Coppola admitted at the Edinburgh film festival premiere, lightheartedly. Billy Zane's Castro impression is one of the highlights, as are the Cuban revolutionaries on the moon. Oh, and watch out for Coppola's sister Sofia in a little cameo.  "},{"Title":"Just got it wrong buddy","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just read the comment posted on IMDb site and I was really sorry to see that such an excellent movie was appreciated in such a wrong way. The plot description is correct, as the movie deals with the making of a B-Science fiction movie, but the message is to continue the fight against tyranny and this is it. The rest, including the movie itself is just the cover-up to say a thing, that is the most important in life, but has transformed itself into a cliché due its very importance. Roman has chosen excellent setting to enhance the very essence of the film. Jeremy Davies personifies the word cool and Ajgela Lindvall leaves Jacqueline Bisset eating her heart out. Gerard Depardieu, one of the greatest french actors, appears in quite a cameo-ish role but packs it with excellent emotions and symbolism. Hope Roman will someday give us another good one, as CQ remains, to this date, his solo directorial adventure. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, hilarious, thoughtful movie-within-movie.","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My son rented this. Wonderful recreation of the style and atmosphere of the giddy culmination of franco-italian filmaking in the late '60s permeates a hilarious movie- within-a-movie. Reminiscent of Barbarella, 8 1/2, and the 10th Victim, shot in both B&W and color, the struggles of a young editor who is losing connection with his girl-friend because of his obsession with both the film he is working on and the beautiful leading lady are affecting and involving. Given an awful sci-fi film to rescue from a fired director, by a producer who is both intuitively brilliant and ridiculously old-school, the editor obsesses over the ending while falling in love with the star.The stylishness of this film is as important as the story. CG focuses loving attention on the pre-digital world of continental film-making with long shots of threaded-film editing equipment, cameras, reel-to-reel tape-recorders, tiny old cars careening through the streets of '60s Paris, and 8 /12-style parties. I was astonished at how it evoked the feelings I experienced upon first watching the fun films of Fellini, Antonioni, and Godard, and the relationship-centric films of the British Girl With Green Eyes period. Rent this film!  "}{"Title":"not bad","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It wasn't as bad as i was expecting, after reading all those negative reviews. It reminded me somewhat of Woody Allen's Stardust Memories which came out in 1980, but this is nowhere as good as that movie. This movie stars Jeremy Davies as a film editor who is promoted to director after the first two directors are fired. In one scene you can see Sophia Coppola, who must be related to the director. I've liked everything I've seen Jeremy Davies in and Billy Zane is good as a gay leading man. You can also see Dean Stockwell in a cameo as Jeremy Davies father.  "},{"Title":"A Wannabe Fellini","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so I took a chance on this turkey and it was a waste of time. The only redemption I found was that the lead actor was good; the other supporting actors were just merely killing time. But the more I watched it, the more I thought of Fellini's 8 1/2 with the director seeking the ending of the movie which we are watching. The way the director in the movie confuses illusion and reality was Coppola's attempt at pathos while ripping off Fellini. Maybe Roman thought we wouldn't catch that reference but we did. It is an interesting aside that both Francis's children cannot direct but can pick the right mood music with the soundtrack provided by French syn band Mellow while sister Sophia's 'Virgin Suicides' movie being scored by French syn band, Air. Let's hope that IF either of them direct again that they have learned from their mistakes. NOTE TO SELF Stop being arty and pretentious and make a gut-feeling movie that made their father famous and rich. "},{"Title":"The Creative Process of Howard The Duck","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The creative process should boggle anyone's mind.  I mean if you took one look at the time and energy exerted on one motion picture you'd probably scream.  Sure some movies deserve the time spent on them.  Nobody is going to begrudge the creative team behind 2001 A SPACE ODYESSY or CITIZEN KANE. But what about the creative team behind HOWARD THE DUCK.  Did not talented people put just as much time and energy into that film?   CG is a film about the creative process thru the director working on a film just a stupid and banal as HOWARD THE DUCK.It tells the story of a young and talented film editor named Paul (Jeremey Davies, Spanking the Monkey) and his short stint as director on a B grade science fiction film in 1969.  The film about a secret agent named Dragonfly (Anglea Lindvall, New York Stories).  It's Moonraker meets Charles Angels. This film is directed by a creative visionary named Andrezej (Gérard Depardieu, The Closet).  After months of editing the end still needs to be reworked, and Andrezej has been thrown off the picture because his producer (Giancarlo Giannini, Hannibal) he taking for to long to finish.Andrezej is replaced by a snotty kid named Felix DeMarco (Jason Schwartzman, Rushmore), he's the kind of guy who doesn't deserve to be where he is and everybody knows it.   When tragedy strikes the new director.  Paul is called in to finish the picture.First time director Roman Coppola, has crafted a disjointed but still overly satisfying film.  Making movies is a game of luck and CQ (The Morse Code phrase for Seek You) has some real moments of brilliance. It's about the lengths money men will go to make a picture, it's about compromise, and it's also about the creative quest to make an audience happy all while keeping yourself from going crazy.Jeremy Davies is one of the most underused actor's in Hollywood.  He does so well with each and every performance, even if the films suck (See Million Dollar Hotel, for example).  His Paul is both nervous and yet calculated. He hides in the shadows only to jump out and surprise you.  Like any number of craftsman and artisans he's the real talent and he props up those around him.I loved how Coppola, counterpoints the silly B movie with Paul's other black and white art film.  Paul is making this drippy and disjointed film at his house.  It's this surreal black and white film that features disjointed takes, and exists for arts sake more than anything else.  Of course it's silly and pretentious, but in the end it's all about creating your own film, and moving on with your life.  Plus it's really an excuse to p*ss off his live in lover Marlene (Elodie Bouchez, Dreams of Trespas).Marlene is a good counterpoint to Dragonfly or Valentine whom is the lead in the movie. She's the woman Paul truly lusts after.   Each women stars in one of his movies and you can tell which on he thinks is a hero and which is a villain.  This gives Paul a flawed dimension and these women bring out the two faces of this talented man.Overall CQ is a tad vague.  I liked it that way; something tells me if I knew what Coppola was truly trying to say it would be quite a letdown. Thankfully I will take my interpretation and leave it at that.I also loved the B-picture itself.  It was campy and silly.  Like Austin Powers without the laughs, and tons more style.  Lindvall was the perfect choice for Dragonfly because she looks like a Model in the Sixties.  Like a Breck girl from the 60's.Plus, Billy Zane's (Titanic) small roll as Mr. E, is so goofy and yet so suave you can't help but be pulled in.CQ is not for everyone and a nominal understanding of the creative process of film will enhance it.  But if you're looking for something a little different, a little out of the ordinary, and a little weird, give CQ a try.**** out of 5  "},{"Title":"Please take their cameras away!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Will somebody please tell the Coppola children that although their father got lucky and wrote/directed a few good flicks, it doesn't give them free reign to inflict us with bad cinema! (And lets be honest here, while some of FFC's films are GREAT, only about a half dozen of them are even watchable.)This film was even worse than Sophia's Virgin Suicides, and I honestly thought that would be the worst film of my lifetime. Critics and moviegoers everywhere fall to their knees in praise of this family, while they probably sit around and say lets put out the worst film's we can, and watch as people say they love them, just because of our father.This film offers nothing. It's poor acting from otherwise very talented individuals with absolutely zero charachter development, combined with direction and editing barely worthy of a home movie. This movie leaves you with nothing but a desire demand the last 90 minutes of your life back. "}]