[{"Title":"It's not about sex. . .","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"118 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . .and it's not really even about Lucia! Lucia y el Sexo is actually about Lorenzo, Lucia's novelist boyfriend, and the consequences of a sexual encounter he had in the past which has led to a catastrophic event in his life.  It's a languid and tempestuous poem of a movie, told in a non-linear way by the extremely ambitious Julio Medem.  As a novelist myself, I deeply related to Lorenzo's blurring of reality and imagination. Your characters MUST be real to you in order for them to live and breathe on the page, and so much of your own life goes into the characters that the lines of course do blur.  And then there's the subconscious, which cannot differentiate between fantasy and reality.  Medem understands all this very well, and his depiction of it is remarkable. The title, I believe, refers to Lorenzo's past (The Sex and what happened as a result of it), and his present (Lucia). Paz Vega and Tristan Ulloa are stunning as the two leads - Vega with her fierce intelligence and Ulloa with his tormented vulnerability.  I would have given this film a 10 if it hadn't been for the fact that the most pivotal scene is shot in an incredibly vague manner, which left me confused as to what had actually happened until much later in the movie, but it is a brilliant and heartfelt experience nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"Meta-story and story","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"91 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the better structured movies ever put to screen. It's as complex as Lynch's Lost Highway, but that only adds to the experience. A non-linear structure (in time and space) is applied and Lucia y el Sexo blurs the line between reality and imagination.Basically, it's like Mulholland Drive Most of what we see is a dream, imagination. Only a relatively small part did really happen. But this goes one step further What part is in the eye of the beholder here, because little clues are given so the mystery format is only used to keep us entertained at a basic level.A writer is the center here. Some parts of his life are probably true (trouble at home, sickness), others are ambiguous, others are certainly imagined. He is in the meta-story, but also places himself in threads in the other stories that come from his imagination. His imagination is formed by applying smaller and larger events (meeting a person at a party, seeing someone in front of the house) in his personal life to his fantasies. His erotic fantasies explain the title, as sex is one of the characters of the story. One of the story lines is again about his script read on the island by one of his imagined characters. Writing the story and telling the story is done simultaneously. As he becomes sick, the characters become helpless in the story. Overall it helps a lot if you keep imagining that you're watching imagined characters being manipulated by the writer. This combines meta-story and story, real with imagination, weaving several threads in a complicated web of story lines. In the end, it is made clear that the story doesn't end but starts again halfway, giving further evidence that viewers can use their imagination at random on this and create their own story out of it.The meta-story is interesting, but by mixing it with the story itself we see the real story as what it is, a writing trick with imagined characters. That unfortunately diminishes the emotions a movie tries to convey. We're merely watching how a movie is structured, with the imagined story not having the usual dramatic impact.It's remarkable that so many people are offended about the sex scenes, as it's already in the title. Do they also complain about the presence of aliens in Alien? I found the sex scenes to be made with some honesty; and at least they didn't even shy away of male nudity. "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful poetic film about love, sex and forgiveness","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"74 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The earlier film by Julio Médem (Lovers of the Arctic Circle) is a prelude to the kind of cinematography that this Spanish film director/writer presents here.  I have read most of the other comments, but they don't do justice to it, mainly because of the lack of understanding the original tongue of this film.  The screenplay is excellent, full of metaphors and a rich use of very carefully chosen words.  People who consider this film just an excuse for depicting sex scenes as the highlight of the movie are pretty much clueless.  It is more than that, it is the complex storytelling that tangles the characters in this movie and the way that is told. Compelling and breath-taking.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Simply Lovely","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"72 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this film absolutely terrific. Ik know there's a lot of sex in it and yes, there are a lot of suspicious coincidences, but I looked past that.For starters, I loved the story, it wasn't boring at all, despite what some may say. It was a sort of twisty fairytale to me, just like 'Los Amantes del Circulo Polàr' was. I love good fairy tales!The acting was very good by most actors (I love you Najwa!), and good by the others. Even the girl that played Luna was convincing.The film has a lot of explicit scenes (sexual and non-sexual) but besides from that Médem accomplishes to put a lot of suggestion in it (sexual and non-sexual). If you watch it attentively and past merely what you see, you will notice the subtlety of the characters and story.Last of all i would like to say that the English title (Sex and Lucia) is an abomination to the original title (Lucia y el Sexo). The word are the same, but the word order has flipped, which gives the title a whole other meaning, to my opinion. The film is about Lucia and the meaning sex has in her life and the life of others. It is not about sex and the way Lucia handles with it. The meaning of film titles is often lost in translation (no pun intended). Why can't American (and other) people keep the original title? We can in Belgium.A la proxima "},{"Title":"Suddenly, you fall in a hole and it goes right back to the middle.","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films like SEX AND LUCIA are the ones that when somebody asks you to describe, you have a hard time trying not to mislead them. Imagine David Lynch telling a story of love, lust, deception, and betrayal in a sun-bathed slow atmosphere and not one dwarf in sight. It might fool you at first into thinking it's just another erotic romance where characters have sex and share their feelings for two hours, but as soon as the first plot turn grabs you, you never let go. 	Let's try to describe the plot in a somehow linear structure We meet a restaurant waitress named Lucia (Paz Vega) who appears to have emotional problems with her depressed boyfriend Lorenzo (Tristian Ulloa). One night she leaves work to find their apartment empty and receives tragic news He apparently committed suicide by throwing himself in front of a car. Immediately after hearing it, Lucia packs her bags and leaves to a Mediterranean isolated island where Lorenzo apparently had an early sexual experience with a nameless cook. Then we track back in time six years earlier when Lucia and Lorenzo first met. He was a famous writer whom she fell in love when reading his book and stalked him for days until finally confessing her obsession in a restaurant table. What follows are countless scenes where Lorenzo and Lucia interact through sex. We get cheap, gratuitous intercourse like never before in a major motion picture and it is treated quite normally with honest sensual bravery.  Of course, you would only understand that from watching the uncut version.  	 	Lorenzo is currently writing a second follow-up novel and as his best friend  Pepe (Javier Camara) advises Put lots of sex in it, people like that! Now this is where I am completely lost as to how to continue to describe this plot in a linear structure. Well, Lorenzo learns he had a daughter with that cook he met in the island and she is now six years of age and named Luna. While trying to get near her, he starts having an affair with her  babysitter (?) Belem (Elena Ayana). This particular sibling has an unhealthy affair with her stepfather who met her mother while working in the porn industry. Lorenzo eventually includes these characters in his novel which keeps being read aloud by Lucia.	Meanwhile back at the island in what appears to be present day (?) Lucia meets a scuba diver named Carlos (Daniel Freire, who also plays Belem's stepfather) and follows him to a nice cozy guest house owned by an excellent cook named Elena (Najwa Nimri). Want a big twist now? It turns out Elena is the lady who Lorenzo had an affair with six years ago and the mother of Luna. It appears that Elena is one highly active internet girl who comforts her loneliness by surfing in the world-wide web. In there she meets an anonymous writer who keeps writing her a story with no narrative rules (sounds familiar, doesn't it?) and that person is actually Lorenzo. Did he survive the suicide attempt? It just keeps getting weirder and more confusing to the point where you can no longer tell if what is being played on screen is reality or the work of Lorenzo's novel. 	Director Jaime Medem was also the man behind LOVERS OF THE ARTIC CIRCLE, a 1998 film about  an unusual couple composed of complete opposites (named Otto and Ana) so it makes partial sense that he was also behind SEX AND LUCIA. This is a film also about the faith of particular characters and how they all interact to each other by one key point Lorenzo's writing. When walking out of the film, one is unable to tell weather or not the sun-drenched, paradisiacal island is real or some imaginary plot device where characters go to relax and wash away their sorrows and worries. Is it supposed to make sense? Is there a key as to how to unlock the film's nonsensical linear structure? Unfortunately, this film was not as analyzed and dissected as MULHOLLAND DRIVE, so we might never learn. What is left is not an erotic film., but a beautiful, warm, romantic tale set to Alberto Igleasias' remarkable music score and seen through the cinematography by Kiko de la Rica whose work with digital is truly remarkable where the sunlight-bathed island is so bright to a point where the image looks anemic. I think the regular audience might finish watching a movie like this and at least have an idea about what happened, and I guess that is already worth any explanation.    (5/5)    "},{"Title":"Outstanding European cinema","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (8/10) Refreshing, delightful, sexy. moving and thought-provoking movie from Spain. Not really porn (as the title might suggest) although there is some very artistic explicitness. It is movies like this one that remind us that European cinema can scale the emotional dilemmas and mountains of a story where other films look at a storyline in terms of physical developments. Lucia, a young waitress in Madrid, falls completely in love with a writer. After a period of blissful togetherness, something from his past pulls him in two directions. We are caught up in his moral dilemma, of not wanting to lose the wonderful gift he has found and yet not wanting to be untrue to himself. The semi-autobiographical novel he is writing pulls together the story and the emotions and hopes of the characters and introduces ideas that enable them to heal some of their hurt.  A central idea is that of finding a hole (symbolically on the sandy beach) where, after reaching the end of the story, you can jump back into the middle. That way you can try an make things turn out better (If you give me time, says Lorenzo, Lucia's boyfriend.) 	A more mature and rounded work than the Director's earlier Lovers of the Arctic Circle, Sex and Lucia combines wonderful acting, a great story, innovative cinema and spine-tingly beautiful photography. One of my favourite films of the year. "},{"Title":"Sex as motion engine of the soul","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie in my view is not understandable without any notion of the 'soul', whose movements are made visible by magnificent underwater shots. The sexual scenery functions not only as entrance to the story; I think Medem really wanted to depict something like 'the ultimate sex' both as experience and as ultimate, divine ideal, something like Goethes 'eternal feminine.' As something to strive for, it can deeply affect our lives by giving it the splendour we need to keep it worthwhile, even if we fail. At the same time, it is also a power deep down, a dark shadow that haunts us. It's for us to see, to accept, and to decide do we want to go to our island and unite the two, as Lucia does? In that case, we might see that in the end our stories come true as well, be it by breaking in in the middle.The question I asked myself after watching the movie for the third time was where exactly is this 'middle' of it? It seems to me that it's around the scene where Elena is walking through Madrid with Luna in her baby carriage, while passing the apartment of Lucia and Lorenzo. From then on, the decisions made by the novelist - like the shivery death of his child - are such that there is no way back. Lorenzo, Lucia and their relationship are too heavily shaken up. Both have to get into a new reality which can transform their personalities; to both, this means a form of dying and leaving their old personalities behind. They surely resist this, especially Lorenzo; but also he has to put himself at risk, following the demands of his 'blood', that is, of his sex, death and rebirth. And there the story takes over the initiative from the writer, who himself is thrown into it - in the middle, where he leaves his home and runs into his 'accident'. Exactly that scene is not shown - it's the hole in the middle, through which the old reality passes into the new.For me, this movie is a small masterpiece, which shows how film and literature can work together, and how more powerful ideas about ourselves are then the circumstances we are put into. The 'form' of the persons is therefore changeable like Lorenzo during the last Island episode has 'changed' into Carlos. As the 'transformed' Lorenzo turns up on the island, with his distress and his love for both Elena and Lucia, 'Carlos' is no longer necessary and the women can leave him behind. The fact that Elena is eventually able to weep, marks the acceptance of her loss, which 'naturally' returns her child to her from the middle of the picture again. "},{"Title":"Imaginative, but convoluted","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Spanish film has an unusual look and feel and dares to take chances in the way that it mixes fantasy and reality.  The result is an interesting film, which is often confusing and frustrating. I'm sure that this was not entirely accidental and that the filmmakers wanted to keep the audience in a state of disorientation.  Nevertheless, the convolutions of the story appear to serve no other purpose than to keep us off balance.The films biggest sin is the scene in the middle of the film where the daughter Luna opens the bedroom door.  The following event is presented in such a way that we are left guessing as to what has just happened. There's no reason for withholding it, except the misguided idea that lack of clarity is artistically valuable. I think that despite it's flaws, this film shows a great vibrancy and energy.People talk a lot about the sex scenes. The film doesn't have much to say about sex and it certainly isn't about sex. Nevertheless, the scenes do not seem tacked on for the sake of it and, in an era when Hollywood seems to be gripped by a new puritanism, it's refreshing to see a frank depiction of what is, after all, an important aspect of the relationship between these characters. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly made and constructed movie.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is really one of the better constructed movies I've seen in a while.Both the storytelling and style of the movie can be called unique.It starts mixing reality with fiction and its hard to tell what really happened and what didn't. It features lots of 'what-if' themes and the story is being rewritten in the characters mind, also with lots of symbolism, mainly with the moon and the water. It doesn't make this the most accessible movie but then again, you don't ever have to watch an European movie for its accessibility.Things start off quite slow but as the story develops the story gets more and more complicated and non-linear, when the line between fiction and reality gets blurred more and more. It does make the movie hard to follow at times but it at the same time makes the movie more interesting to watch and enables everybody start to define things on their own. You of course have to be open to these sort of movies though. Also the very explicit nudity isn't just for everybody.Sex plays a key part in the movie. It helps to tell the story and plays a significant role in the story lines and help to indicate when things are truth or fiction. Never before has sex played such a key part in the storytelling of a movie.This movie is always presented as a Paz Vega but this movie it's main character is in my opinion played by Tristán Ulloa. He's the writer, were the entire movie involves around. The story is mostly set inside his head. The three main actors (Paz Vega, Tristán Ulloa, Najwa Nimri) of the movie are really good and carry the entire movie.Visually the movie is really great and impresses just as much as the storytelling of the movie. The camera-work and colors are really great and create a very unique atmosphere for the movie. It helps to make Lucía y el sexo an even bigger and more enjoyable movie to watch, visually.Those who are open for an unique, one of a kind, unusual movie experience, will surely be delighted with this magnificent beautiful looking and constructed movie.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Only The Ending Is Real","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie works much better for me if I believe that everything occurring up to the closing scene, in which the writer rises from his keyboard and walks over to the woman at the window, occurs inside that unnamed, unidentified writer's head.  In other words, everything we see up to that point, what we think is the movie, is actually the novel that writer is working on.  Lorenzo, Lucía, Elena, Luna, Belén, and even the editor Pepe are merely characters in that novel.  The novel our Lorenzo is working on, the one Lucia sneak-reads, is a novel-within-a-novel. The back-and-forth time shifts are the larger novel's structure and only the movie's structure by default.  The novel closes with Lorenzo's fantastical plot device of characters falling through a hole, coming back half-way into the story, and changing course Elena and Luna reunited and playing in the piazza outside Lorenzo's flat.  If this was Julio Medem's vision, then it was brilliant.  If not, it's still an excellent movie.  I think the naysaying commentators I've read need to watch the movie again. "}{"Title":"Another masterpiece by Julio Meden","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again Julio Meden reminds us that doing movies is an art. Not just story telling, but Art. The very way of telling the story can be artful, and this flick is a nice example. Newspaper reviews in my city gave it two stars out of four, but this guys would never give good ranking to a movie without gay action or dark, 10-ton-of-sadness endings. Great movies, artistically speaking, can be done without leaving the feel-good mood, like this one. Good acting, superb job of photography, optimistic way of portraying the human being, an excellent movie!Don´t be shocked with the sex scenes, there´s  much more story around. The director was very courageous to jeopardize the movie reputation among puritan, hypocritical viewers. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"And the Story Starts Again Halfway","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Written reality. I had the unexpected pleasure of seeing this soon after Ruiz's Proust. Both about writers creating a life.Time folding. Narrative layers. The three sisters from 'Alice in Wonderland,' here named Alsi/Elana, Lucia (the Alice, an anagram, in fact one that Carroll used) and Belin. The story is to Alice, for Alice, about Alice and generates the world that Alice lives in. The lighthouse and hole. Its less than intelligent in the level of the story lust drives meaning, but that's because the written novel is at that vulgar level. This film starts slow and ordinary, just as the novel within. But we soon weave all sorts of ambiguous narrative threads, each creating the other. The last half of the film is a bedtime story, a novel, a suicide note, a coma-induced dream, a recipe, an internet communication, a climax-induced hallucination, a blindfolded taste.A man loves three women. Another man mirrors him. Lots of coupling, ethereal angst, Two of the sisters plus the author (and his double), all possibly dead (all possibly fictional), on the island of conception. And the story starts again halfway.Some lightly nuanced direction here. Endearment without cloying. The only thing in this film that is not sensually romantic is that the computer is a PeeCee and not a Mac. You'd think they'd know.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A story full of advantages","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie you'll like and you'll have to see again. So smart, so amazingly entertaining, full of details you begin to realize as the end is approaching. As opposed to what some people may think, I believe that all the sex scenes, although they are pretty explicit, are totally necessary in order to tell the story and to show the characters just as they are. It's a movie to really think about and it goes from what it seems a twisted story full of rather weird elements to a (if you wanna see it in that way) sweet and simple love story. The acting was good, but mostly because there was a great book and a great direction behind it Médem's work was remarkable. If you don't mind seeing some, you may say, awkward sex scenes, and you're looking for a really great plot, with great dialogs full of symbolisms, and also excellent photography, then you're just gonna love this one. "},{"Title":"profound, beautiful, visceral","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Sex and Lucia is one of those movies that will grab me and won't let go. I saw it with the fascination a child has for her bedtime tale, I connect to it with my soul and viscera. The movie speaks of an island where one can change the course of one's life, an island that floats like a raft atop the sea, that is so full of caves as to be nearly hollow, so that each of the many holes you may fall into is really a tunnel that will take you somewhere else. This is the island of Lorenzo the writer, Lucia's boyfriend.But to start at the start. Lorenzo's first book told the story of a birthday boy who had made love to a stranger on a full moon night in the ocean. He is having a writer's block while writing his second. Lucia and he become lovers after Lucia meets him at a coffeeshop and tells him she is in love with him and wants to live with him. In parallel, we see a daughter being born from Lorenzo's nameless union. In time, in his second novel, Lorenzo will have to face his child, named Luna after the full moon. His agent gives him the plot of this story, where Luna is born and he finds her in a park, and this leads to a house where a man lives with two women, and there is torment, passion, suffocation, lust. Lorenzo gets to spend a night with his child only if he succumbs to the lust of sexy au pair Belen; in an unforgettable scene he tells a bedtime story to his daughter in a bedroom furnished as if it's underwater, just as Belen dresses herself up for seduction. Luna dies before Lorenzo can tell her that he is her father, but this death has to be a secret too. Lorenzo is dragged into a relentless trajectory of secrets, depression, sleeping pills, and knows that he has to either kill Belen and her mother, and set himself free, or kill himself.At all points of the movie, the characters of Lorenzo's fiction interact with and exist as real human beings; we see their lives change as Lorenzo types away at his computer, but they are also free agents. This means the film works at two layers. One can treat Lorenzo's passions, his infidelities, his child, the deaths, the sex, as real, and have a consistent interpretation. But true meaning comes from the layer above, where we actually live within a writer's mind, and see how events here coexist with, and are influenced by, thinks that really happen to the writer. Metaphor merges with reality, fiction becomes life, life finds meaning and resolves itself in fiction.The storms and dark secrets in Lorenzo's fictional world are metaphors for his obsession, passion and conflict, the abyss that drags him deeper and deeper. He cannot share these tensions with Lucia because he thinks he is too poisoned within. He has fallen into a hole, he says, from where there is no escaping. Or not really, because he is still in touch with Luna's mother Elena through anonymous internet chat. He has been telling her a story that gives her two advantages one, that at the end of the story there's a hole that leads one back to the middle of the story, and two, one can change one's course any time. And we see Luna has partly changed her course, she is back on Lorenzo's island. But Lorenzo is still far away from her, and, in a way, far away from Lucia. Will he be able to change the course of his life, will the hole he has fallen into lead him back to the middle of the story? Such a story has to involve Lucia-- will Lucia get back Lorenzo? Will there be a resolution?Yes, there will, but Lucia is, so far, only a reader, an admirer. She is perplexed by Lorenzo's self-absorbedness, this darkness, this hole, that she doesn't understand. So she leaves him though she knows she is still in love with him, and then her world shatters when she hears he is dead. In reality, Lorenzo is in a coma, and will come back to life later, as her advantage plays out. For the moment, however, Lucia's loss will make her cycle in Lorenzo's world, and when she moves to Lorenzo's island, the island Lorenzo would never take her to, she is really inside the hole he was in (she falls into a real cave in the island, as well). She has to travel this world and meet the characters of his fiction in real life, before she will see him again. But by then the fictional and real worlds will get united, by the time Lucia and Lorenzo come together at the end, the two parallel lives of Lorenzo have become one. United and resolved, like in sex. It is this journey of Lucia to union, this tale of sex and Lucia, that the film chronicles.There is another angle to the name, as well sex and writing are both about creation. The world Lorenzo creates pulls him in like sex does (into a hole, in both cases?). Like sex, there is the potential for obsession, and like the man he writes about, he is tormented by the tensions between the two women, two world that he has created. Upto this this is all Lorenzo's. But as the movie progresses, Lucia finds herself in a house with a man and another women, sexual tensions building up between them. Her course changes. It's because she is on that island that Elena gets to meet Lorenzo, and she really reunites Lorenzo and the mother of his child, resolves their story. And isn't that child really Lucia's love, in a way? The book that conceived Luna also made Lucia fall in love with Lorenzo, the shot of their first union cuts into Luna's birth, they both dropped into a hole together, and at the end, when Elena tells Lucia that she is a gift to the earth, she looks as happy as she would if she got back her lost child. The child who Lorenzo didn't trust with the secret, but who would have kept it if he told her. Finally she reaches the heart of that secret, the secret of her birth and her lover, through a journey of her own, hence Sex and Lucia.The little details matter. The dog that killed Luna also features in a shot on a television screen at the coffeeshop where Lucia picks Lorenzo up. Elena's anonymous friend uses a lighthouse as his icon; like a lighthouse, he shows her how to change her course, they meet for the second time in front of the island's lighthouse. The music, the visuals of the island and the underwater shots are magnificent. The metaphor of the caves in the island works very well. Each death punctuates the end of one phase and the beginning of another, almost like a chapter ending. And the end isn't just an end, it's a second chance, a resurrection, an advantage. We see Carlos, Belen's mom's lover and, subsequently, Elena's guest, disappearing into a hole, we find that Belen and his mom have been declared missing. Maybe they have dropped into a hole as well, waiting to pop up somewhere else, waiting to change the courses of their lives. Those are different stories, different journeys.The acting is very good. Paz Vega, in particular, is brilliant as Lucia. All through the movie, sex is portrayed without guilt and prissiness, but it is never affected or gratuitous. I feel extremely upset the way so many American reviewers seem to be more preoccupied with the sex depicted in the movie than the movie itself.Oh, I adore this film. "},{"Title":"Is it real?","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movies like this that tread heavily into the surreal are fascinating to me. The moon (positive), the hole (negative or inverse of the moon), the man suddenly arising from the still mud (creation). I think that we can consider the movie as real or plausible if we consider that the characters arise from the writer's consciousness. I'm going to kill them now (babysitter and her porn-star mother) Lorenzo says as he arises from bed, then over to his computer where he starts writing. Why does the dog kill the little girl? Does the dog symbolize lust (note Lucia keeps saying, I'm dying! as she has sex with Lorenzo)? This is all in his head, I think, or in the computer, and finally in the manuscript displayed at the end. "},{"Title":"beautifully, wildly, mysteriously explicit and implicit","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With Lucia y el sexo Julio Medem draws on a lot of his familiar themes. Destiny,coincidence and fate alternating courses during people's lives. He also handled love and memories as important drives of people. Children tend to portray people's consciousness, with their fresh and honest innocence. As Luna's fate in this movie both infects and cleanses Salvador, taking him through his past and present.Medem also likes to use nature to symbolize stages and feelings in his character's lives. The moon, soil, water and fish all come back repeatedly, each with a different meaning. This gives the movie a beautiful dreamy atmosphere, strongly backed up by the camera work.Now to the sex in the movie. It's very strong from the beginning, but besides it's explicitness Medem also deals with it very sensitively. The sex is arousing but meaningful too. Anyone who's been in a passionate relationship must be touched by Salvador and Lucia's sex life, leading toward an almost dangerous addiction. I wondered if the rest of their relationship was strong enough to pass the test of time though, sex seemed to be at the core of their love. Some of the sex scenes were very aesthetically directed and filmed. The cunnilingus scene on this symphony-like music was classic! It's definitely the best oral sex scene I've ever seen on film. Arousing with a smile. I was also happy to see that the UK-version of the video was uncut, showing the male organs. Very refreshing that men are also portrayed vulnerably in a movie. The sex is much stronger and important in the first part of the film. That was functionable in the story as the characters saturate themselves in it, leading to problems, but somehow to me it also felt unbalanced.Julio Medem has really made a beautiful film with Lucia y el sexo. I found it profoundly moving and captivating. You have to let yourself be carried away though or you might become saturated yourself, with the abundance of symbolism and sex. "},{"Title":"Lucia & the sex, or Julio Medem & poetry","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time I watch a film by Julio Medem, the same thing happens to me, and that is that I feel weightless and it feels like time is slower and the images have a different color. With this film, it was no exception; the moment the credits appeared and I left the theater my feet felt like I was floating over the ground.This spanish auteur, has showed us throughout time, that he is able to wake up even the most hidden feelings from us and play with them as the pieces of the puzzles that are his movies are set together like in vacas, la ardilla roja and most greatly in los amantes del circulo polar.What call my attention the most is that, I have the feeling that Medem tried to get away from his past with this story but ended up coming back to it, which is a great thing in the sense that the poetry and melancholy that is always present in his movies, are also part of this one.The main question regarding the film is, What does Lucia y el sexo mean?, what is the correlation between what happens and the actual ritual of sex? You have to see it to get a conclusion...Is it love?, lust?, loss of innocence?, or just a part of the human condition? To get an idea, you have to let yourself go along the images and surely you might find the answer at the end.One more thing, who wouldn´t fall in love with someone like Lucia? I would also say yes, the very first moment she would come near me. "},{"Title":"Slick and clever, but a bit too contrived to be genuinely engaging","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stories told in a so-called magical realism style like this film can be very tricky. The story and the characters need to be very strong to sustain all the twists of the plot and I don't think this was pulled off here. I was disappointed, as I'd enjoyed Medem's previous film Los Amantes del Circulo Polar, where the passionate love story seemed a lot more genuine and the tragic ending seemed to fit better with the theme of fate playing with people's lives than Lucia y el sexo's tragic-to-happy contortions. Also, while the female characters were all charming and sexy, the male roles were really poor and unconvincing. What on earth did Lucia see in Lorenzo? There isn't enough to justify her endurance and patience with him. Their whole love story seems artificial from the inception, it seems there was too much work on the symbolism of their relationship - the tormented writer and storyteller, the reader and savior (Lucia as a ray of sunshine) - rather than on the real intensity of feeling between two people. The sex scenes are too stylish and sleek to be really passionate. Everyone is good looking and well dressed, they live in nice apartments, exist in a bubble where the society around them doesn't seem to affect them, this is obviously purposefully so and ideally you wouldn't mind that lack of realism if the story was engrossing enough, which it isn't. The entire plot seems to revolve around the concept of the ability to deal with tragic fateful events by rewriting, literally and metaphorically, one's own life story. But the final optimism comes across as too artificial. The plot does not resolve the fate of the child Luna, Lorenzo's daughter. The tragedies seem more like a prop, a trick to demonstrate how love can conquer guilt, remorse and failure. They're not given enough weight. People slash their wrists or throw themselves under buses easier than they cry, then we're supposed to believe they can just forget and forgive and live happily ever after. The director says he wanted to make everything light in this film, after the experience with the previous one. But I think he overdid it! There is a bit too much of the French 'Amelie' in Lucia's character, she is more like a beautiful fairy than a real person. Elena, too, is more a symbol of caring and nurturing (motherhood, cooking, taking care of Lucia) than a real grieving mother. Her lack of anger and bitterness is not very believable. The whole escapist symbol of the floating island becomes annoying after a while. It functions on the characters like a drug inducing apathy and oblivion, more of a way of avoiding pain than confronting it. But it's not that, it's the way in which it's presented and wrapped up at the end that really disappoints - too fancy and too abstract to really work.It's not a bad film. It's full of eye candy - the spectacularly gorgeous Paz Vegas, the island, the photography - and it is well directed and well acted overall. But without all that, the story itself wouldn't really be worth much. "},{"Title":"Eleven points for artistic ambition, and achieving beauty, even with its overly affected editing and stylizing","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sex and Lucia (2001)A fascinating, moving, beautiful, sexy movie. Yes, it's about sex, and there are lots of sex scenes, some of them surprisingly graphic. But it's not about sex at all, in a way &#x97;or at least the bigger point is about recovery, and finding love, and the power of goodness. This makes it all sound sappy or sensational, and some people might find it so. But I think it is extremely serious and probing. And if this territory is not completely new, it's suddenly fresh and intriguing.And confusing. If there is one stumbling block for many it has to be the deliberately convoluted plot, and the convoluted way the plot is told through several time periods and with interchanging roles, or what seem to be people whose positions alter in each others' brains.Or not! What I mean is, I think it kind of makes sense, maybe perfect sense, if you study it. The key to it all, both the characters and what happens to them, is a writer and his book(s). Because one of the main characters is also the writer's most devoted (and obsessed) reader, the fictional elements become true, or at least get blurred with the truth, and so what the viewer sees (poor depraved viewer at this point) is partial and suggestive and puzzling.Which is exactly why the movie is so good. You have to let go of the facts a little and hang onto the mood, and to the characters (and the actors) who are quite real and palpable. In fact, one of the things that makes this so significant is the high level of acting&#x97;the author and the three main women that come through his world over six or seven years. The emotional intensity, from joy (and ecstasy) to horror (and grief) is quite intense.There is a lingering feeling of awkwardness to the production of the movie. It's not just that it's a hair low budget&#x97;this is part of the feel of it, and it's quite beautiful overall&#x97;but that it uses certain editing quirks and filming styles (like blown out highlights in some scenes) to create effect. Sometimes this is helpful for keeping track of different points in the shifting narrative. Sometimes you are too aware of it. At least the first time.I've seen this only once, and I can imagine watching it again someday. It might well grow on you, getting a little clarity but also revisiting the emotional dips and peaks a second time. One small heads up for people who might need to know&#x97;there is a rather too-long section near the start with lots of frank and varied sex, and it drags a bit (and is too self-indulgent for the plot), but then the rest of the movie largely avoids it (not completely!). So if this is a turn-off, get through that part and see what turns up next. The movie never expands outside its small group of characters or its limited range of sets and locations, but it inhabits these places with increasing interest. Director/writer Julio Medem has succeeded at something here. See what it is. "},{"Title":"A sea floor that never heaves","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen one other film by this guy and consider it one of the very best. This is even better if possible, an achievement in cinematic vocabulary. I posit that he's one of a handful of filmmakers currently innovating the cinematic narrative, maybe even one of only two. Welles, Tarkovsky, Resnais, Ruiz, he belongs in this celebrated company of filmmakers; where the effort is not just to animate a part of an overall world that we experience as our narrative, but rise to the level where narratives are engineered and see is there an author or fate perhaps chronicling the whole. And do we live in the midst of images randomly spun around us or is there pattern and gravity in the gears.I suppose this one in particular was not given any leeway from the critics because of how sexually frank. It's difficult to handle sex, it seems to pull in another direction than we're used to with film. It's okay to be emotional in the presence of strangers, in a dark hall, but to be aroused? The manipulation goes too far it would seem.This is not about sex or Lucia however any more than 2001 is about a monolith, Blowup about a photograph or Kane about a sled. It is about you and the love of your life. Now she could be any one of the three women here, maybe all of them at once. Naturally there's going to be sex, playful, exciting sex at first caress. And later more sinister as we give into fantasy that we know is wrong. You are the author turning complicated life with these women into a novel about sex and hurt. Maybe she is really a single woman and you have written her in three parts to be able to handle the depth of feeling. All three listen in some way to what your part is about them. All three wish to intimately know and understand how your gears turn.Turns out you have increasing pain and darkness welling up inside of you that must be kept secret else the world comes tumbling down, a secret that you fathered. But since you are an author and pretty good at that, hence familiar with shifting characters inside a narrative that shifts as they move, you know you have to write deeper than you can immediately make sense of so you write your novel the ordinary way, a melodrama about love that hurts, but with one caveat there's a hole at the end that takes you right back to some part in the middle. The hole is in a rocky, windswept island that is claimed is not attached to any sea floor, it just heaves this way and that with the winds. Lucia falls in the hole, and comes out the other end as fragments of what we presume is a whole story, a whole life read one way through. We assume we're seeing things as they happened. But are we watching from her end? Her end as she reads the story from behind a screen late at night? Or as the other reads it from another screen? As the man tells it? As it happened? As anyone of these people is remembering it happened? As he imagines on his deathbed it did? It doesn't matter. This is your ploy. You have written your personal drama in a way that lets you sink behind your small narrative and there be assured by a greater realization this is the way the world turns. You have lost and found again and it's all part of the cycle. And then it starts again from the middle.Something to meditate upon. "}{"Title":"A Keeper Without a Lighthouse","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't remember seeing many movies that were more beautifully shot than this one. It doesn't hit you over the head like one of David Lean's colossal spectacular stupendous architectiptoptoloftical magnificences but it is quietly effective. Faded when it needs to be, dark and moody when required. It's not just the pretty setting. The interiors are as well done as the undulating sea grass. And the performances are equally accomplished.The plot, though. Well -- the plot. It's as if the people behind the movie had gorged themselves on Finnegans Wake and Borges to the point of bursting and then had sat down and storyboarded the whole movie on a major binge. (And I thought only the French could outfox me.)There are some notions -- I hesitate to call them themes -- that run through the movie. There is the sea, of course, and the island, and the moon (Luna), and sex, telling stories, and conception and birth, and reproduction. I'm being kind of loose with some of those definitions so that reproduction, for instance, includes writing novels, as does telling stories to children.I'm on kind of shaky ground with most of those ideas so let's stick to sex, which I more or less understand. There's all sorts of hetero- and autosexual stuff in it, maybe even a hint of bestiality, but you get used to it. I went through the Human Sexuality Training Program at Berkeley along with a couple of hundred other professional types, many of them elderly ladies. The first thing the organizers did was have everyone sit down in an amphitheater and watch one full hour of pornographic movies, homosexuals at work, old folks, elephants. Satiated, the participants were no longer shockable and were ready to deal frankly with sex. This movie has a similar effect. One erect penis may be worth a gasp but by the time the second rolls around you're wondering what it has to do with the plot.And, I'm sorry but I still can't get over the plot. This guy Lorenzo is evidently trying to write a novel, see, and this girl, Paz Vega, a total stranger, approaches him in a bar and suggests they live together. And at the end they ARE living happily together. It's everything in between that stumps me. I could ask a dozen questions about the plot but will just give one example. What happened to the little girl, Luna? I could make as good a guess as anyone else but it would still be just that, a guess. Anyway, I won't list them all because you'll be asking yourselves the same questions after you see this film.Not that I want to bash it. As I said, the actors are uniformly good. I especially liked the novelist, Lorenzo, who has a face that is sympatico without being the least bit handsome. And it's a movie for grownups, which nowadays is a novelty. There isn't the slightest nod to raw adolescent sensibilities. Phrases pop up from time to time that raise those little flags you see when you've marked an email message in your inbox as worthy of more attention. A lighthouse without a keeper. The plot may be a lot more murky than the Mediterranean Sea in this film but I sat through it all with interest, waiting to see how or if they could pull it all together. "},{"Title":"Ravishing","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Sex and Lucia ten years ago and liked it a lot. Time and the downward progress of mainstream cinema has been kind to Julio Medem's masterpiece. I watched it again recently and realised how underrated this film is. Lovers of the Arctic Circle is Medem's most easily appreciated work. It offers a straightforward story of love, fate and happenstance. Sex and Lucia is very different and much, much deeper. The sex of the title and the sex on screen inevitably confuse an American audience stuck in the 17th century of their pilgrim forbears. For the rest of us, this film is a revelation, a feast of sensual magical realism and intellectual mystery. It's also quite, quite beautiful and deeply moving. English language filmmakers, American and British, take note. This is cinema. "},{"Title":"Lucia y el Sexo","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julio Medem's award winning film Lucia y el Sexo is certainly a conversation piece. The film circulates around the relationship between Lucia and Lorenzo, the former a young and strikingly beautiful waitress, the latter a struggling and emotional novelist. Lucia is an avid fan of Lorenzo's, and boldly states such when she comes across him at a restaurant. The two embark in a tumultuous and erotically passionate relationship. Medem constructs a plot that integrates thematic elements of magical realism into a non linear storyline, while interweaving characters of past and present. It seems that Lorenzo's novel of fiction plays an important role in the film, introducing both themes of mimesis while confusing reality with fiction. The fluidity of the film can at times be difficult to follow, due mostly to the ambiguity of Lorenzo's literary work.After we are introduced to Lucia and Lorenzo, the film thwarts the viewer six years prior, where we witness a one night stand between Lorenzo and a woman called Elena. Although the viewer is unsure of the relationship between Lorenzo and Elena, we later learn she bears his daughter. Lorenzo unknowingly meets his daughter and subsequently witnesses her death in a freak accident. This paradox creates the climax of the film and marks the point in which past begins to meet present. Lucia, after the news of Lorenzo's supposed suicide, seeks to evade grief and reality and travels to an island; it is there she meets Elena and the two bond over their grievances.Although it seems sex is a predominant theme in the movie, the eroticism juxtaposes the idea of grief. Medem creates an fantastical world where relationships are infinitely connected as symptoms of one's actions. Such actions, and misconceptions of fiction and reality, mimic the organized chaos of the universe, creating an anecdotal example of cause and effect. Love and grief are inextricably linked aiding Medem's vision of human relationships; as one ideology&#x97;romance and eroticism&#x97;eventually leads to another&#x97;death and grieving. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a truly Spanish film, rich with drama, vibrant colors, and people with an incredible thirst for living life to its fullest, no matter what complications the world might throw at them. The story touches the far reaches of pure joy and contentment as well as tragedy, profound loss, and deep suffering. Paz Vega is bold yet vulnerable, and shows an amazing range as a very spontaneous woman who has an intense relationship with a man that suddenly disappears, leading her to escape to an island and search her memory and her surroundings for clues to her lover's past. The music and photography both leave huge impressions, notably the underwater shots that depict sex, conception, birth, and life. The washed out, overexposed images of the island also subtly provide a sense of life and death, and the sense of existing somewhere in between. "},{"Title":"It's more than that!!!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film not just with lots of steaming hot sex; it's more than that!!!  It's such a contradicted film; everything in this film has double meanings, and hidden messages.  So while seeing this movie, please do not be deceived by your own eyes and ears; instead, try to find the hidden messages that this film wants to tell you!!For instance, this film sure has more sex scenes than other films have (of course, except those porn movies).  However, to me what this film wants to say is not just to have more pleasurable sex but to look out and take good care of your desires!!  This film illustrates lots of examples why and here I came up with 3 of them.1. A beautiful, unforgettable, careless sex with Lorenzo, Elena became pregnant and fascinated by that sex she once had.  She wanted to leave the man she's with now and what's more, she wanted to find her child's father even though her child's father is a total mystery to her, no name, no address, not to mention what her child's father did for a living.  She has completely no clues.  Trying to find her dreamed man, the fate bought her to Madrid where she lost her precious daughter.2. While Lorezo, the father, and Belen, the babysitter, were aroused by their desires and attempting to have sex, Luna, the daughter, was attacked by a fierce dog and found dead.  How ironic, Luna was created by the sex and destroyed also by the sex.3. The sex between Belen's mother and Antonio or let's say the desire between Belen and Antonio made the relationship among Belen and her mother and Antonio became tense and unpredictable.  And which leaded the mother and daughter disappeared and Antonio himself went far far away and disguised himself in a little island where Luna was formed.This film is also a film for females.  Look into this film real seriously, you may find that actually it's a film about females, about their fantasies, about their capabilities, and about their desires to sex.  Thus it's not surprising to find no male jerking off scene but a female one!!!Besides the sex theme, Sex and Lucia has more to offer.  This film is a story within several stories.  A writer writes his/her life or people around them, so does Lorezo.  His novel is interweaved with his own life story which not only made himself but also the moviegoers confused, and bewildered.  And because of this factor, everything is possible and workable in this film.  For example, if you don't like the life you have now, you can get into the imagining hole to start all over again as the writer, Lorezo suggested.  And that is what this film did at the end, which made this film an always happening and might also be a happy one if you want.This is such a good film with good-looking actors, beautiful actresses, good acting, splendid scenes, wonderful music, adventurous themes, creative imagination, interesting plot and many many more!!!  Really what's more can you ask in a film!!!!   "},{"Title":"The sell out movie of a rather average director.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julio Medem had directed a few movies before this one, with his key movies (Vacas, Tierra, Ardilla roja, Amantes del circulo polar) being basically the same plot rehashed in a different way.  The afore-mentioned movies, in my opinion reflected limited directorial skills and zero originality.So, he moves into the 2000s with a movie in which you see a constant parade of genitals followed by sex.  If you like naked bodies and uncensored sex, go for it by all means.  However, don't try to pass it off as transcendental or artistic like Medem did.There is no plot.  None.  You get more of a plot swirling a bowl of alphabet soup with your spoon.  Even Najwa Nimri, usually extremely convincing and talented, phones this one in.What it boils down to is this if you want to see sex, see this movie.  If you want to see a movie with sex and a plot, then keep looking. "},{"Title":"Explicit, but not overdone","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a North American, watching European movies can sometimes be a bit of a culture-shock for me since it's very liberal compared to even R-rated movies here. There is full frontal nudity in this movie - male & female genitalia and all. Although I wouldn't classify it as a porno, there are definitely some scenes that come close. The sex scenes are explicit, but it is not overdone. If you came to watch the hot sex scenes, that's great, but they only last may 20 seconds max and the point isn't really the sex as the movie title might imply, but the consequences of it. The sentiment attached to it and how lives can be interwoven unknowingly through this natural human desire, through lust. It's really a deep movie if you get past the skin-deep elements of it, and the cinematography, acting and script are quite beautiful. Another complex element of the film is the fine line between reality and fantasy, fact and fiction, and that's something else that draws the viewer in - what really happens in the story and what doesn't? What is an embellishment by the author and what is truth? Get past the sex, and you'll see Sex & Lucia is quite a deep film. "},{"Title":"An impressively filmed but unlikely story.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Prior to the present day of the film, a former partner, Elena, of a writer, Lorenzo, had a daughter, Luna, who Lorenzo began to visit. He had an affair with Luna's childminder during which time the family's dog attacks and kills Luna. Elena left to spend time on an isolated Mediterranean island. Lorenzo continued with his writing, drawing on aspects of his own life for story content.In the present day of the film, Lucia is a waitress in Madrid and after her partner, Lorenzo, the writer, leaves a suicide note she leaves to spend time on an isolated Mediterranean island which happens to be where Elena has based herself. The two meet and gradually realise their common link. Lorenzo recovers from what was a failed suicide attempt and visits the island, meeting both women resulting in them all unravelling their interwoven lives.A complex film in which past and present alternate and real life is mixed with the events that are being created in a novel. An erotic drama stylishly filmed and well acted. However, the film relies excessively on coincidence and the happy ending results from an event which is slightly artificial, a little too convenient. "},{"Title":"beautiful, erotic and confusing","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucía (Paz Vega) is beside herself after getting a disturbing call. She abandons everything and goes to Balearic Islands. Six years ago, her boyfriend Lorenzo gets the married Elena pregnant in an one-night stand. He's struggling to write and meets Lucía at a café. She moves into his place. Then Lorenzo learns about his daughter and gets involved with her babysitter Belén.This movie has two overwhelming aspects. The nudity is very explicit and the story is very confusing. I'm not offended by the nudity but maybe some people are. I'm more concerned about the confusing mix of past, present and the imaginary novel story. I don't think I'm an idiot but this blender-mix of real and unreal leaves me lost. I don't think it's even suppose to make sense at all. It's a jigsaw puzzle with no solution. In the end, it's all made up and non-sensible. It's a beautiful, erotic jumbo. "},{"Title":"Becomes richer, deeper and more interesting than just a coupling of naked bodies on screen!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucia is a waitress who lives and works in Madrid. After what she believes to be the loss of her boyfriend, the tortured writer Lorenzo, she flees to a secluded island that he had often told her about. There she meets Carlos and Elena, who have also run away to the island to escape personal tragedy. Unbeknownst to them, all three have a connection to Lorenzo. Elena met him many years ago on that same island and enjoyed beautiful, anonymous lovemaking with him in the sea by the light of a full moon. 9 months later, Elena gave birth to Luna, but never managed to find Lorenzo. Carlos was the stepfather of Belen, who disappeared after she unwittingly caused the death of Luna. As she hears more about the past of her two new house mates, Lucia is reminded of the book Lorenzo was writing, a tale about a journey into a dark, deep past that brought on his depression. Soon, the lines between fact and fiction begin to fall apart. "}{"Title":"A brilliant film from Spanish Cinema","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Firstly,poster of film and the title is so true and so misconcepting that if you willing to watch that movie because of that two,I'm sorry for you.Main actors and actresses are really good and carry the film with the most realistic and emotional way.All of them.Although script is compelling,with symbolism and flashbacks,it is obvious that it is well-written and don't lose it's affect till the end.And the most dense and strong instinct of human,sexuality is one of the most strongest,natural and witty equipment of film.It also makes film more from inside of normal life.And it symbolizes the affection of people and bonding.In short,It is one of the greatest film of Spanish Cinema with unique patterns. "},{"Title":"Only if you have nothing better to watch","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a big movie buff and I have been using IMDb for years but have never written a review. After watching the movie, I am compelled to write my first review. I have never been so angry at a movie. I feel that the director/writer is tying too hard to give the movie some 'art.' It is so contrived upto the point that the viewer feels that he is neglected in constructing the storyline. Too many snobbish metaphors, ambiguities and subtleties leave the audience uncaptivated. As the story goes on, I feel more and more disengaged, thanks to its pretentious taste. My tipping point is the dog scene. First, the writer doesn't have to kill the child. Even if he has to, it doesn't have to be by a dog. If it has to be a dog (another distasteful metaphor, yes I get it), the scene doesn't have to be shot in such an overly unnecessarily confusing way. I know it is the movie makers' choice but I can't help feeling self-pity for myself for having to witness it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful movie with the language of love","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie cannot be explained in words.It has to to be watched in order to grasp the love portrayed by the actors.Wonderful acting by each character.The story has an appealing factor which keeps you glued to your screens.The first and the last scene are incredibly matched at the end.The story line is rigid and moves in a river like flow.The sex is hot and there is are no hurdles in expressing the true love that the characters have for each other.The movies leaves you satisfied in every way.From the intensive love making to the raging crying scenes, this movie delivers in each and every way.This movie shows the honest feelings that one person has for the other. The island on which the movie is made is a sight on its own.The lives of the characters are beautifully merged into one story.At one point the movie becomes more than sex it grows a successful story.The sex scenes are an additional perk,the sexy Spanish chicks and the intense and gratuitous sex scenes are merely to support the story.In this movie beauty is all around the way it was intended.The love in this movie is indescribable.In my opinion this movie delivers from the lust of boobs to the lust of an incredible story. "},{"Title":"More than I expected","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I got this film as a couples movie for my wife who is away for when she got back. It was worth the chance as from Spain rather than Orange Valley CA. Having just watched it to see if it was OK I was really captivated and will need to watch it again to get all the nuances. The acting was top notch as well. You don't need a wife when the film is this good. Only kidding Gaynor! Sort of reminds me of Betty Blue, another good example why European cinema can hit the target always when it comes to this sort of thing.Excellent work.Andy "},{"Title":"Just outstanding!!!","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has fallen into my hands by accident and i am so happy for that as i found it absolutely amazing!!! I loved the twist and the whole story surrounding it!!! I found it totally daring and bold, very smart and the music by the wonderful Alberto Iglesias was just so good. The performances by Paz Vega and Najwa Nimri are just breath taking and Tristan Ulloa so sweet and real. The actors and actresses altogether have managed to make me feel various feelings throughout the movie and i have to admit that i have watched it over 10 times by now!!! THe location of the movie offered great colors and excellent views even though i still don't know where it was filmed!!!Another one time Javier Camera has proved his amazing talent. Julio Medem has made an exceptionally remarkable work. Spanish cinematography is indeed the finest! "},{"Title":"interesting and capturing","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this Spanish film. I loved the way the writer's life was discovered atfer his disappearance. Although highly visual the film is about the prose. The main actor is so sexy the film steams and is a great escape "},{"Title":"interesting and capturing","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this Spanish film. I loved the way the writer's life was discovered atfer his disappearance. Although highly visual the film is about the prose. The main actor is so sexy the film steams and is a great escape "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great cinematography, great and intricate storylines, very good acting...and yes, great sex! The only criticism...the editing could be a bit tighter - but that's not to take very much away from a very good film. "},{"Title":"it is about sex...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but it is not porn, at least not sex as commerce. There is a scene that mirrors the action in a porn film, and I think this clearly shows the difference between real sex and sex depicted in most porn films. It is explicit, perhaps not to a modern Spanish audience but for many people. The ending is a disappointment as I find it a concession to commercial success. It has the feel of a French movie of the 70's (when the French still knew how to make a movie). The film moves backwards in time and in and out of reality through the device of the writing of the main male character. I saw it in Spanish (not my native language) and cannot wait to see the subtitled version... "},{"Title":"Remember The Neverending Story (the book)?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If, as writer and director Julio Medem is reported to say, sex plays a role in this film just as much as main characters Lucia or Lorenzo do, this role would be that of a stooge of sorts, always predictable in its sometimes grotesquely superlative ubiquity. Since it is always there, as the air they breathe, sex never seems to exert any decisive influence either on the plot or on the psychological development of the characters - it just feeds lines to them.I must admit, though, that -to the best of my recollection- never so many explicit sex scenes were shown in a film without letting it slip into the realm of dull hard-core. Forget all about Baise Moi or Romance X! This one delivers!I would venture to say that the one thing this film is all about is... literature and the hold a story can get on author, reader and characters, and how all of them interplay and shape different planes of reality. The way I see it, this is the film's most ambitious intellectual pursuit, and a very ambitious one at that! I would not have been surprised to see Michael Ende's name in the credit lines.  "}{"Title":"Update your own emotions.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film tries to get from the viewer the deep emotions you keep inside, like an exercise-in-progress. It's like a visual trip not to the sex -only a mcguffin in film development- , but to the adult feelings as human being we are. With a certain unbalance of rhythm, some scenes are top, and some not. Enjoy -like I did- its strange beauty, the magic of the image treatment -and the incredible landscapes of Formentera's island- , a bunch of young actors in rapture -pay attention about Najwa Nimri in Elena role-  , and be tolerant with Julio Medem, better director and visual creator than writer, and one -if not the best- of the most original Spanish filmmakers.  "},{"Title":"It's not really about sex, though some scenes are... ¿porn?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie premiere yesterday; the director (Julio Menem) introduced the film as a triangle between Lucía, Lorenzo and The Sex. I guess he meant The Sex was  another character; but after seeing the movie, I don't agree at all. The Sex, it's there (When you see the film, you'll see what I mean) but it's not a character, I think it just shows the  kind of relationship between Lorenzo and Lucia, the way the love each other and the way the break up.It's a beautiful movie, with lovely landscapes, very well acted. One of the best of this year Spanish films (The others suck). I would only say, that the title of the film, doesn't suggest the more accurate idea of what the film is about, instead of Lucia y el sexo, it should be called Lucia y la isla or just La Isla because i think the island is the character that puts all the characters together. Anyway i really liked the movie. 10/10Go n c it  You'll love it too. "},{"Title":"I don't buy it","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing that can never be said about Sex and Lucia is that it's not interesting. It has a unique look and feel, more than almost any Spanish film I've seen, and also some very memorable and enticing scenes. The first thirty minutes work quite well as a slightly surreal relationship-based drama. The more it goes on, though, the more the plot twists and turns, and as much as I wanted to believe that it was all leading up to something, or that there was a substantial layer of subtext, I found myself not caring too much, and I got a strong feeling that Medem was deliberately making it more obscure and incoherent than it has to be for the sake of creating an artistic visage to cover for the fact that he didn't really have anything much to say.Some films bend and break genre conventions to create truly fascinating art; some films decide to ignore plot and coherency in favor of atmosphere and symbolism. Sex and Lucia, unfortunately, doesn't do any of that. It does have quite intense atmosphere, and probably some layers of symbolism I couldn't be bothered to look for, but it just failed to capture me in any meaningful way. I was impressed with all the elements - gorgeous shots, good dialog and excellent acting - but it doesn't come together to create a real film, and it's too long and too heavy-handed to be enjoyed merely as a collection of individual scenes. Worst of all, it's not even about Lucia, nor is it about sex. It's about unlikable Lorenzo and figuring out what on earth Lucia sees in him. That's almost as big a mystery as what the film is actually about. "},{"Title":"How 'bout some super sex?","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Extraordinarily sexy, brain-twisting melodrama from Spain. Paz Vega (who tried and failed to get a Hollywood career going with Spanglish) stars as a woman who hooks up with her favorite author (Tristan Ulloa). After enjoying a life full of the greatest sex and romance ever, Ulloa discovers that a one-night stand from the past (Najwa Nimri) has been searching for him in Madrid with their daughter in tow. Unsure as to whether he wants to reconnect with Nimri, he seduces his daughter's nanny (The Skin I Live In's Elena Anaya) to get a closer look at his heretofore unknown progeny. The story is deliberately confusing - one's never sure whether the plot is actually happening or is part of the novel Ulloa is writing. Honestly, by the end of the film, I'd gotten over trying to make perfect sense of the plot (I was kind of assuming that the American release was heavily edited, but in reality only a couple of minutes of full frontal nudity were cut) and just enjoyed it for its beautiful images (shot digitally, which I think has its place) and all the hot, hot sex. Paz Vega is a total doll, but, man, when Anaya shows up, holy cow, is she just smoking. There's a long sequence where she wears this black teddy that just had me drooling. Medem (who directed the also quite good Lovers of the Arctic Circle) hooked up with Anaya again a couple of years ago with the lesbian flick Room in Rome, which I am now compelled to watch. "},{"Title":"A New Genre - Suspense, Thriller, Erotica","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a north American who usually watches N.A. candy like movies, which are usually visually pleasing but hollow in the script, this one is a very nice surprise.I'll give a 10/10 for the movie - script, director's performance, cinematic effects, castings (kudos to Elena Anya - she should shoot more serious movies like this one than Hollywood movies like Van Helsing), editing. The sex scenes are explicit but necessary to tell the story honestly, so it's sex scenes in good tastes. p.s. Vicky Cristina Barcelona seemed to be a N.A. version of this one but like suggested earlier before, this movie got more complexity, originality & layers - thus more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Excellent film which challenges the spectator","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yesterday,I rented Sex and Lucía and it was the first Julio Medem's film I saw.But,when I finished seeing his extraordinary film,I decided to look for Medem's previous films.The film is perfect and it tells a totally human and honest story,at the same time it challenges the spectator.I did not see much films with a story so well constructed like the one which tells this film.The screenplay,written by the director,is full of surprises but it does not look for big twists.The movie shows us the different pieces of a puzzle and the spectator needs to construct the puzzle.Another great thing this film has is that the conclusion is not definitive.The spectator has to take out conclusions.The emotions are very natural but they never manipulate the spectator.Sex and Lucía is an extraordinary,beautiful and complex film which challenges the spectator.I recommend this film a lot. "},{"Title":"sexual poetry on the theme of writing!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about sex. This movie is about sexual responsibility. This movie is about the difference between sex and love. But my God, it really is about the art of writing and rewriting. You watch the protagonist/ writer creating and recreating the plot. At times you will wonder what is reality and what is the fiction within the fiction. Simply put, it is a great ride in the journey of the creative process. But such heady stuff could become a bore after a while. Not if you have these steamy sex scenes, clearly inspired by porn flicks. Yet they are beautiful and erotic and do not leave you feeling cheap and clammy. Nothing you do can ever prepare you for this experience. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah! is a little hard to follow, but who cares, in fact I like that, I love films when pushed me to use my brain, and my sense. The only matter is, while time goes on... my personal idea of love is closer than Medem's love means.In other case, I just remember Bigas Luna's movies, and its the same. And then, i try to answer my own question what happen with love in current time? what happen with human being? i think to show these pictures its like a way to does it make you feel, no matter if you are immerse in globalization, at work, at everyday things...Good job. "},{"Title":"confusing","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is probably a movie which is rated as great by women, since I really had to struggle to get this movie finished. It has some sex, a lot of dialogue, pretty people, not so much detail as for the environment it has been shot in. I think it deserves a 7 for complexity and especially for it is a Spanish film, which isn't very advanced compared to French or German productions. About the storyline, there's absolutely nothing to be said about that, you'll probably would want to judge for yourself.See this film in spring or when you're in an obvious I don't give a crap mood ) "},{"Title":"Past the sex","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was quite captivating and at first seems completely confusing because you think  okay what did this have to do with sex and Lucía and they way I look at it is that the sex seems like an attention grabber. To get the viewer hooked, then introduce the very interesting and complex plot of Lorenzo getting too involved in his novel.The title is really the best marketing tactic, what do people seem more attracted to than sex. Then again, throughout the movie Lucia is the most supportive person and her sex as well. Yet, it is so contradictory, because she just appears out of no where, the only person that does not have a single entanglement with anyone in Lorenzo's twisted world.  "}{"Title":"A spicy romance between a Spanish novel writer and a waitress","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very surprised with this movie. It's not just sex.First of all, it's a romance. A writer and a waitress. They're in love since the first time they saw the other one. Lucia move to his place in the first date and they start a relationship very intense and full of sex. As usual.But the sex scenes are not like porn. They show passion and reality. Like most of actual relationships.One day, Lorenzo is hit by a bus and Lucia runs to and island where some of his past is revealed to her. I really liked. A good Spanish movie like so many in these days )  "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There have been some simplistic comments posted about this movie. Some things to bear in mind (in relation to those comments). Its not Steven Segal, its not a mainstream American movie. It challenges. It makes you wonder what is going on. For me that is a good thing. Its beautifully photographed. Yes it may need to be watched twice or even 3 times to understand but for me that is not a bad thing. Although it is not in the same class by a long way (different media for a start)..who understood Beckett or Joyce on a first read. As far as the purile comments by Jellyneckr (young children should not see it). Perhaps that is why it is an 18 cert movie. And if you do not pay attention to a movies plot why watch the movie. Stick to Stallone. "},{"Title":"I like Medem's films","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this because I liked another Julio Medem film, Lovers of the Arctic Circle, so much. I still prefer Lovers, but Sex and Lucia is a good film. I will watch future Medem films. Sex has similarities to Lovers I would describe them both as love stories with rather convoluted and improbable circumstances advancing the plots. Still, Medem puts some feeling in these stories. I watched the unrated version (there's also a R-rated version). It is the most sexually explicit mainstream film I've ever seen. If it were any more explicit it would be hardcore pornography.  "},{"Title":"My title; Lucia y Luna","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great script superbly executed, fabulous acting, great atmosphere aided by stunning music and scenery...it will have you in tears of laughter at the great sex scenes between Lucia and Lorenzo (fun not sordid or dirty) and in tears of sadness and pain other scenes. The dog scene was slightly messed up, probably too much was left on the editing room floor. Knowing the hippie Formentera lifestyle and feeling helps with this movie, but you get several hints of it. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just seen the Movie and i am completely high on it. What a beautiful creation this is. The creation of the story of a man who makes a selfwriting semifantasy(book). At least... that is the way i see it now, but i don't understand the complete story yet. That, to me,  is part of the beauty of the creation i want to see it again, i need to see it again.It is so easy to have the wish to see it again. The characters are so beautiful. The passionate way they live their intense lifes. Or is it the other way around the intensity in which they live their passions? The scenes of nature are incredible, the colors. The cleverness and originality with which everything has been created.I cannot recall a movie that has had such an impact on me when i was watching it. I hope that tomorrow i will feel the same as how i felt during the course of the movie and therefore i must grade this work a 10/10.Niek. "},{"Title":"Lyrical Lucia","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A rare film that can never be predicted, which dazzles with the writing, with the cinematography, with the sweetness, with the bewilderment. Almost every scene is a new tale, a new perspective. It is as opaque and as translucent and as elusive as sex & desire, as childhood, motherhood & fatherhood. The writer/director takes every chance in every scene and delivers on nearly every gamble. My only regret was that I didn't see it the first day it came to my city & each day till the end of the run -- I only saw the final showing at my local theatre.Glorious film-making, showing that artists still know how to expand the infinite possibilities of celluloid. "},{"Title":"This is really at least two movies.  Both are great.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie features one of the best-constructed storylines of any movie I've seen.  One of the main characters in this movie is a writer, and he explains part of it halfway through.  (paraphrased)  This story has advantages One, it has a hole at the end, which leads back to the middle.  Two, you can change course along the way.There are two movies superimposed here.  One of them has this intricate, nonlinear plot to it, which weaves itself around to some sort of satisfaction, but not necessarily an end, just a hole, which will take you where you want to go.  The other movie is more symbolic, about fantasy and contrast and women and men and lights and darknesses.  Also, it's about writing.  I don't want to give away too much, but it reminded me a lot of that Escher drawing of two hands that are drawing one another.  Now also consider what it was like to draw that, and you'll have a bit of what I felt as I walked out of this movie.Always remember, you can change course along the way. "},{"Title":"Soft,Tender,Hard,Achy, as life","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thanks to Medem for this piece of sublime nowadays art. This film has the authentic signature of the father of Los Amantes del Circulo Polar .... the way the relationships evolve, the internally tortured mind of the characters, the poetic language of visuals...and how important is sex to all of us , if we have some blood in veins , of course.  "},{"Title":"Complexity & beauty.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Everything about this film was surrounded by mystery. The plot was secret and not many images of it were published... There were only rumors that there were a lot of sexual scenes, some of them very explicit... As a big fan of Julio Medem´s films, I was anxious of seeing Lucía y el sexo...I left the cinema really shocked. I thought it was impossible for Medem to make a film better than Tierra, a total masterpiece,... but I was wrong. Lucía y el sexo is nearly perfect... The plot is very complex, mixing different stories, past and present, reality and fiction, dreams and nightmares... But everything is in his place, creating a unity of harmony and beauty that goes directly to your soul and heart. But it´s not only the plot... it´s the way Medem puts it in images that makes his films unique. The cinematography of Kiko de la Rica, the music of Alberto Iglesias and the light of Formentera submerge the viewer in the feelings and sensations of the main characters, which are excellently played by all the cast, specially by Najwa Ninri and Tristan Ulloa, who seems to be Julio Medem´s alter ego. I think there is a lot of truth and sincerity in this film, perhaps the one in which Medem more exposes himself to the public, talking about him. And... what about sex? There is sex as never seen on film. Sweet, hard, painful, full of joy sometimes, plenty of bitterness, the others... But in Lucía y el sexo sex is not just sex, sex is love and passion. "},{"Title":"You'll need patience with this one","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an intriguing film that uses sex to draw you in. Once you are trapped and waiting to see what happens, the movie seems to go in different directions. The similarity of the characters' looks is confusing. All of the women on this film look very similar and because of the time span this story goes through their looks change only making them look more similar. Lorenzo the male character is very disturbed and there comes a point that you begin to feel who cares? when watching his story unfold. Lucia (Paz Vega) is a catch, she plays the role of the girlfriend every guy wants perfectly. The film winds around erotically bending rules and then at the end ties the story together almost surprisingly. Be patient and enjoy this movie , it pays off at the end. "}{"Title":"Give it a chance -- or two","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD the first time, kept wanting to like it, but couldn't. It seemed disjointed and wantonly shuffled, like a dismantled jigsaw puzzle. Elena's pointed gesture at the story printout near the end finally made clear to me that the movie's resemblance to a Klein bottle (a 4-dimensional moebius strip whose neck opens back into its center) was intended, not accidental. In other words, it was not my fault that I could not follow the story, but rather the director's purpose that I should not. Why he chose this structure still eludes me, but there it is.I thought about this afterwards, baffled because the performances were excellent, yet the overall effect was both annoying and disappointing. My gut reaction was to rate it low (5/10) because the chopped up structure was so distracting, yet this seemed unfair because many of the elements were really good. I watched the DVD again the next night. Already knowing the story made a tremendous difference -- along with realizing from the beginning that the mermaid is not Lucia, which on a cinema-size screen would possibly have been obvious, but was not obvious on my monitor. I found the structure a lot clearer, and could really savor the terrific performances, particularly by the three women. Most remarkable of this first-rate ensemble is Elena Anaya (Belen) who is in the same class as Audrey Hepburn. She doesn't get much dialog, and doesn't need it. She conveys every nuance of her beguiling but sinister character by glance, expression, and gesture, that all come across perfectly with or without subtitles. Ethereally beautiful, forthrightly erotic, sweetly innocent, dangerously demented -- that's Belen. Her wordless reaction to first and last is one of the most memorable such scenes in cinema, and most actors will never come close to equaling it. ** POSSIBLE SPOILER FOLLOWS **There is one thing about this movie that I disliked the first time, and that I positively came to hate the second time. This was the color design. It was dreadful. Its rationale was explained in one of the DVD interviews, but its being intentional made it even worse than if it had merely been a technical glitch. Sex and Lucia was shot on 24P HD video, which allowed free manipulation of the color palette anywhere in the movie. The problem was that Medem and his team used this new power recklessly -- and did so in every single scene. The net result was that most of the movie looks as if it had been shot on outdated Ektachrome, developed at Photomat, and then left out in the sun for a few months. Hint to budding directors For emotive color manipulation to work, there must be a baseline of realistic color that one moves away from -- or it will come across as a mistake. Moreover the shift into abstract or emotion-based color must happen organically, without calling attention to itself.Peter Jackson did this masterfully in Lord of the Rings (explained in the DVD appendix to the Fellowship of the Ring). Jean-Pierre Jeunet did it even better in Amelie. Wayne Wang did it reasonably well in Center of the World (also shot on video, like Sex and Lucia). But Medem, alas, got swept up in the novelty of this technology, so that it is constantly obtrusive and distracts from his story. Medem set up two artificial color schemes for this film, one for Madrid, the other for the island. These were further varied by whether a particular scene was past or present. But the schemes did not differ sufficiently from each other to make it clear where or when a scene was unfolding, while they all differed so much from real color and light that the color grading became a barrier between the story and the audience. Overall rating 7/10 -- with possible further revision upward.*If you like Sex & Lucia, you might also like Romance, by Catherine BreillatCenter of the World, by Wayne WangSummer Lovers, by Randall KleiserA Girl in a Swing, book by Richard Adams  "},{"Title":"¡Viva el cinema español!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who would've thought I would become the artsy-fartsy type? I used to like big muscles, big cars and little dialog. The less sensical, the better. Now I like touching, moving and whimsical fare. And romance.I have been seeing a lot more Spanish cinema lately and and I'm appreciating it more and more. Sometimes thought-provoking, always touching and rarely in-your-face. Pretty much the opposite of what has been going on lately in Hollywood.(possible spoilers you've been warned!)Sex and Lucía is the story of how lives unknowingly intersect. An author hit by a car, his girlfriend, the owner of a Bed and Breakfast on an island, a deep-sea diver. All their lives are linked to each other, but none knows it or why. All the answers are on the island.That's it, plotwise. Go see it if you want to understand what I'm talking about I like to give as little detail about the plot as possible. Make it a surprise.I found the performances of the actors to be top-notch. You can see the evolution of Lucía and Lorenzo's relationship over the course of the movie. You see and feel the strain and the desperation slowly setting in. You see and feel the pain of the mother when her child meets an untimely death. It's all there. No wonder it got nominated for a number of Goyas (Spain's equivalent of the Oscars).Plus, there is beautiful camera work. Spaniards really know how to make their country shine on film.This is the first work I've seen from director Julio Medem, but it definitely will not be the last. As soon as I can, I will try to rent Lovers of the Arctic Circle.A solid 9/10. "},{"Title":"wonderful film","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and me liked this movie really a lot. The characters of the film are living through a very twisted plot, but it still seems somehow realistic. Usually, films with plots like this tend to appear very unrealistically. This one is different. Especially Lucía could be just the girl from next door. We liked this a lot, and we also liked the passionate, plain and not stylised sex scenes. They are neither overemphasised nor reluctant, they just fit well into the movie. I give 9/10. "},{"Title":"European Movies....","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion this movie is like most of the European movies, love it or hate it, I guess some people just don't like explicit sexuality no matter how is it presented, in this case they will not be impressed bye the sincerity of the movie, anyway I am not supporting the standardization of the movies and I guess people from Spain can love or hate this movie as much as we can do the same, they are not obliged just because they live in Spain to love and support every Spanish movie, I loved the movie and I recommend everyone who considers the story interesting to watch it and to make themselves a personal opinion. "},{"Title":"This Ain't your mother's favorite movie, OK!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's dense, it's demanding, it's convoluted, it has multiple contextual nuances, and 15+ story lines,and it just plain erotic...The Polaroids sequence alone would make Hollywood censors go ape-dingle-berries, and they wouldn't even get it.Why do you always tear down things that you don't understand... Spend the time to understand the language of this movie, and you will feel blessed by the angels of cinema! OK, so I admit it, it took me 9 times, watching Mulholland Drive, before I finally figured it out, so I have unusual staying power, when it comes to movies, but still, if you want something of substance, you have to pay for with a certain amount of concentration and comprehension... Other wise everything will become as milk-toast as this summer's ENTIRE line-up. "},{"Title":"Couldn't take my eyes off it!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found myself infatuated with this movie start to finish. Beautiful poetry for the eyes and ears. Well-acted, well-shot, well-written and well-directed, total communion of many talents. I was drawn to this movie immediately - the title and the quirky girl on the cover. Though I thought this might be one of those films where I just seem to be waiting for the next sex scene, I was quite surprised that my attention to every beautiful scene was equal with intent. After seeing the film, I feel like the title sets, especially the American audience, in the wrong direction. I almost wonder why the chosen title - was it to say Is that all this story is about or is there something deeper here? The answer is Si - it is much deeper, deeper than what is even comprehensible to the casual viewer - or the attentive viewer for that matter. In this respect, it reminds me of David Lynch's Mulholland Drive. A gorgeous, twisted journey where one need not fully understand every artistic intent in order to appreciate the beauty and insight from the experience.Superb! "},{"Title":"A little hard to follow sometimes","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, let's get the really important stuff out of the way first. Yes, there's nudity & sex, and yes, it was extremely well done. We get to see a lot of body parts displayed in unusual angles and settings.But there is a story in this movie which is where the likability factor goes down. There is too much going back and forth through time, too many fantasy/dream sequences, which makes the story hard to follow. You are not sure what parts of the story to throwaway in your head and what to keep. Some of it may not have happened while others may have.For example, was Belen and her mother killed, or did they just go away? Was the little girl, Luna, killed by the family guard dog, and why would it do that when it's been in the family for so long? Things like that.  "},{"Title":"Another Masterful Film by Julio Medem","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julio Medem has in my eyes never made a bad movie, everything he makes is interesting and skillfully made. And this, his most recent, might be the best to this date.The story is not as hard to follow, as I got the impression of from a few reviews, but it can be hard to follow. But it's a great film in the tradition of David Lynch, and it can be compared to Mulholland Dr..The action is good, but it's Julio Medems visual style that stands out, how he uses the camera and light to tell so much of the story, and the cutting of the movie is amazing.In my eyes Julio Medem is much greater than Pedro Almodovar, much because of the visual style, but also his ability to tell complex stories, like all his movies are.9/10 "},{"Title":"The story that never ends","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At time beautiful, at time confusing like hell, this movie is worth watching. I must admit it caught me off-guard. I guess I was expecting another Y tu mama tambien, for some reason. But this one is closer to Adaptation. Lorenzo is consumed with his novel. Reality and fiction become all tangled. Confused, I identify with a previous user that said that he wanted to like the movie, but found it difficult. As for the sex scenes, they're passionate, pure, some could even say beautiful. There's nothing wrong with that. I enjoyed both performances by Paz Vega (Lucía) and Tristán Ullea (Lorenzo), but it's Elena Anaya (Belen) who steals the show. She's sublime in her role. As for the the never ending theme, I suspect the director used it to clear away a lot of guessing that people might have watching his film.Out of 100, I gave it 75. That's good for **½ out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on November 13th, 2004. "},{"Title":"Porn and plot holes","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing to like about this movie. Even the much talked about sex scenes start to get boring, since they are so gratuitous and repetitive. The film is poorly scripted and none of the psychological reactions of the characters ring true. No one could take seriously the character of Lorenzo the novelist who writes such juvenile autobiographical stories. And what about the plot holes and loose ends? Why the hell does the family dog suddenly attack the young girl, with whom it had lived for years? What purpose does it serve to leave open the fate of the babysitter, her mother and Carlos (who literally disappears down a hole)? The movie tries to be deep, but fails embarrassingly.  "}{"Title":"Too ambitious and confusing","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's very rare for me to turn the film off and miss the ending, but with this one I simply got bored of the constant shifting of directions and metaphors.I kept trying to hold on to the thread of where this film was going and what was actually happening but it was shifting so much, which initially fascinated me, but then lost substance. I appreciated a lot of the artistic elements and the various themes entwined and even the sex and intimacy felt more real, but the dog scene left a distaste, and from here on I lost more and more interest.If the story kept to less themes and had more continuity then I would have appreciated it more, however it was over-complicated. One of the positives was the actress Elena Anaya- she was the reason I watched this film to begin with. Big fan. "},{"Title":"More Than Just A Sexy Movie","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sex and Lucia is a Spanish drama film written and directed by Julio Médem, and starring Paz Vega and Tristán Ulloa. As suggested by the title, there is a great deal of passionate sexual content surrounding the love story of Lucía and Lorenzo as the plot dissolves into a very lyrical eroticism. The movie features a highly non-linear story line with repeated surreal references to the ocean and beach. Lucia (Vega) is a young Madrid waitress who is devastated to hear of the death of her old flame Lorenzo (Ulloa). Hoping to flee her troubles, she seeks out a beautiful island paradise her dead lover often talked about. There she meets and befriends Carlos and Elena, who are also refugees of personal tragedies. Unbeknownst to all of them, the three each have a connection to Lorenzo. Years previously, Elena had a spontaneous fling with Lorenzo on the same island on the beach. Nine months later, she bore his daughter, Luna, but unable to raise a child on her own, she enlisted the help of a nurse, Belen. In attempting to reconnect with the child he never knew, Lorenzo had a passionate affair with Belen, one which caused her to neglect Luna, with tragic results. As Lucia slowly learns these details, she recalls the book Lorenzo was writing just before his death, and soon the lines between fact and fiction begin to slip away.Not every movie that is billed as 'erotic' deserves that distinction, but Sex And Lucia certainly does. It's the kind of intelligent, thoughtful film about sex and love that Hollywood just can't make as it presents a bizarre, alternately joyful and gloomy take on sexual fantasies and complications. "},{"Title":"Round and round it goes...","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Trying to explain this movie's plot is an exercise in futility. It goes around in circles, delights in throwing the viewer completely for a loop. As the movie goes round and round you're left clinging to the hope that this will all get sorted out in the end. It doesn't. When the movie ends you're left questioning everything you have just seen. What did it all mean? Did it mean anything at all? What the heck just happened here? The whole thing is extremely convoluted. Trying to sort it all out may give you a migraine. It's an ambitious effort from director Julio Medem but he never quite manages to get his puzzle to fit together perfectly.Lorenzo is a novelist living in Madrid. Lucia is a big fan of his, veering close to stalker territory. Lorenzo deems it a good idea to have Lucia, whom he has just met and knows absolutely nothing about, move in with him. Lorenzo and Lucia then have sex. Lots and lots of sex. So the movie's title makes sense. The movie itself? There are times where it is very hard to make any sense of it. Lorenzo's writing a new novel and his life and his novel become intertwined to the point it's hard to discern what is real and what is imagined. The movie jumps back and forth in time and in location, going from Madrid to an idyllic island getaway where characters turn out to be connected in very convenient ways in order to keep the story going. The story never goes in a straight line, it's all over the place. If you can't figure it out don't despair because the characters are having a heck of a time figuring it out for themselves. As we watch Lorenzo struggle with his real life and his imagined one we think we may have an advantage because the movie already told us what ultimately happens to Lorenzo way back in the first few minutes. But the way this movie goes round in circles you find that even when you think you know something you don't really know anything at all.It's definitely an intriguing story but it all gets a little too messy. The good bits and pieces don't add up to a satisfying whole. There's much to appreciate but the end result leaves you feeling a bit dazed and probably a bit disappointed. After so much confusion you're left with an ending that's really no ending at all, just raising more questions. And by the time this movie ends the last thing it needs to be doing is raising more questions. Tristán Ulloa as Lorenzo and Paz Vega as Lucia both turn in good performances in the two critical roles and they are ably supported by some other fine performers around them. The fact that the stunningly beautiful Vega is constantly naked certainly doesn't hurt the movie's appeal. She's not the only one spending plenty of time without any clothes on though. When you look at the movie's title the Sex is just as important as the Lucia. The movie probably goes a tad overboard with the sex, a little gratuitous at times. But at least the sex scenes give you moments where you can forget about the convoluted story for a bit. In the end it's that story that ultimately lets down the movie. It's one of those movies that you get the sense is trying to be a little too smart for its own good. The movie makes for interesting but ultimately somewhat frustrating viewing. "},{"Title":"Lucia and Sex - what's between?","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young men want to see this film just because of excitement. But it's much more complicated. It's about the pain and pleasure. You feel pain when you lose your lover, and it's a great pleasure to see him (or her) alive. Thus sex doesn't bring only pleasure to Lucia. It's something that brings her pain. What is there between a human and sex? You know there are always extensions to sex. E.g. your friends accompany you in you life and they can help you overcome any difficulties. The life of simple people can be so sensual! Paz Vega is very beautiful and this is a role for her, however Tristán Ulloa with his blond hair doesn't look Spanish. I think Vicky Christina Barcelona was inspired by this film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful & excellent","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I see the usual range of comments that a good art film gets - ranging from people more used to Hollywood dross who don't get it, to those looking too hard & seeing too much.'Too much sex' - sex is the driving force behind the character interactions so how can you leave it out. I suppose if we learn to make war & gangster films without any violence in? The only real titillating scene has no more than a pair of buttocks showing and is done to draw the watcher in to a horrible event. This scene left me with the same sense of shock as the two characters involved would be feeling and did it to a level that would not have been achieved otherwise.'Meta-stories' - I just saw a writer weaving his own experiences & imagination into his story & using it to deal with an experience that was too horrible to speak of to anyone, including his partner.This is a film that carries an air of surreal fantasy which is as blunt and intimate as life while being as subtle as the world we live in. It is truly beautiful.I only drop a point because the acting seemed flat but maybe this is only because my lack of Spanish forced me to follow the dialogue from the subtitles. The only actor that didn't seem slightly flat was Elena Anaya, something which tends to reinforce this possibility as her part relied more on action rather than dialogue. "},{"Title":"Much more than Vega's skintastic moment","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure, this is the film where Paz Vega bares all and gives us many skintastic moments, but it is much more than that. It is also Elena Anaya's hottest picture. OK, now that we got the fact that two incredibly beautiful women give us the performances of their lives out of the way, let's focus on why this is a really good film, and not just a peep show.It's a surreal, non linear story of a writer who commits suicide, or does he?; of a sexual encounter that results in a child; of an enter-twining of a new love with the old life; of a story with real life. It is beautiful, romantic, and haunting with Oscar-nominee Alberto Iglesias' (The Kite Runner, The Constant Gardener) score.Paz Vega (Spanglish), Tristán Ulloa, Najwa Nimri (Before Night Falls), and Elena Anaya (appears in the elusive Alatriste) give super performances in this film.It is the best performance I have seen from Paz Vega. "},{"Title":"A grand, metaphorical mystery and a radical piece of cinema.","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Without meaning to sound crass, Sex and Lucia (2001) is essentially a film, both literally and figuratively, about holes. We can look at and interpret these various holes in number different ways, be it in the more obvious creation of the cavernous dents that litter the film's expressionistic landscape, or instead, as metaphorical places for the characters to hide. On top of this we also have the holes as a sexual metaphor; with the sub-textual references to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and the various thematic ideologies that such a notion presents, with the central character falling into a hole and being re-born into her own story; while later in the film, the male protagonist disappears into a hole and never returns. We also have the more erotic notion of the hole, as illustrated by the holes on the beach surround the obvious, phallic-like light-house.Here however, director Julio Medem is more concerned with how these holes in both the design of the film and its structure can be used as a means of navigating the audience through his various interweaving strands of character, narrative and the potential for multiple thematic outcomes. With this in mind, Sex and Lucia becomes less of a film in the conventional sense and more of a detective story for the audience to follow; existing in the same self-reflexive, psychological realm as Medem's other great features, such as Vacas (1991), The Red Squirrel (1993) and The Lovers of the Arctic Circle (1998), which each present similar ideas pertaining to the creation of a particular character and the world in which they inhabit. With Sex and Lucia however, we have alongside this titular character a handful of secondary characters that drift in and out of the film to supply clues before disappearing without a trace. To add further elements of confusion, paradox and open-ended interpretation, Medem skilfully juggles these characters between each varying strand, culminating in several possible stories each being woven simultaneously, but all leading back to the idea of the writer and the story that he (or she) is creating.It isn't as confusing as the interpretation would suggest, with the film rewarding patient and imaginative viewers with something that could be described as anything from a grand mystery, a cinematic enigma or a multi-layered riddle, wherein the stories are given the room to weave in and out of one another, creating windows that lead into dreams and everything is in some way connected. For anyone familiar with Medem's previous work it is clear that some elements of the plot are supposed to remain indecipherable. The director wants us to go back and re-experience the film like we would a novel; each time picking up subtle nuggets of information we may have missed the first time around. It is important to remember when watching Sex and Lucia that we are dealing - as stated above - not with a single story, but with several or more stories each being spun concurrently. When we begin to look at the internal logic of the story we see the fracturing of two separate elements. To better understand the film we must look at the plot, not from the point of view of Lucia, but from the perspective of the writer, noting how each of his sub-plots come to reflect the main elements of the story.So, we have a writer submitting a book about a couple's sensual holiday and eventual one-night stand. We then have the characters from that book losing touch, getting on with their lives, discovering the existence of a baby and eventually trying to track-each other down. Then we have the writer trying to write a novel about the new woman in his life. This book has none of the tragedy of the former, instead dwelling on love and sexual elation. Unsatisfied with this, the writer then begins to draw parallels with this story and the previous one, by re-introducing characters and adding a subplot of infidelity; all of which will climax on the island where the original story began. So there we have three novels within the film each being read, written or re-interpreted and each of them coming to reflect an element of Medem's film. Throughout the film the writer relates his story to various people; at one point even explicitly mentioning the hole in the middle that leads back into the story and the central idea behind the film. It is at this point that Medem begins incorporating narrative elements from the couple's gossipy conversation on the bench, the child's bedtime story, the internet relationship, the suicide note and finally, a central character's coma-induced fantasies. There are also some wonderful examples of character doubling, coupling and mirroring between the leads, which recalls the similarly complex experiments of Jacques Rivette's Celine & Julie Go Boating (1972) and is also Buñuelian almost in its execution.Medem's stylistic touches make the film all the more deceptive; creating a wonderful, alien landscape for his characters to interact with. As well as this, we also have an exceptional use of cinematography, where the camera is always mobile circling, tracking, blocking, revealing; really becoming one with the characters and bringing us into both the fun and frivolity as well as the mystery. The editing works in as similar fashion, with Medem keeping the structure tight and rhythmic as he merrily jump cuts from one thing to the next, but always keeping the separate elements connected. Though some will obviously be put off by the explicit scenes of sexuality and the bold experiments with plot and character, for me, this is really a remarkable piece of cinema; one in which the literal plot holes are there to be explored, especially if we want to fully understand the film's gloriously tangled narrative and ambiguous shifts in time and place. "},{"Title":"Writing beauty","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (possible spoilers right here)the first advantage is that in the end the story doesn't end. It falls in a hole and restarts from the middle ... the second and greatest advantage is that we can change the its course from there.This quite sums the advantages of Medem's film-making. What we get with Lucia y el Sexo is just great. Fantastic screen-writing, warm, absolutely beautiful in every aspect, visual or written. Writing is the theme. Written reality. Cinema has evolved to explore it. In here, the reality is written by Lorenzo's writing. I'll try to get to it. The title is deceiving. The focus is not on sex, nor Lucia; sex comes as trigger to every other emotion/event and (des)encounter (so Lucia and sex are in relation to Lorenzo, both). The concern is in the writing as creator of reality. All the women are, nevertheless, extremely beautiful, as it is the hole mood of the film. Like he had done already remarkably with Los amantes de lo circulo polar, Medem plays with an enormous complexity in space-time level. He is truly a master, of the so called non linear narrative, he is fully conscient of its effects on the audience (that's the point of being an artist, to control what you show and provoke). Coincidence? Chance? Fate?. Medem's drama lives on these things, the loose ends that eventually bound together, sometimes on pure coincidence, which gathers an impressive credibility when worked out by this director. The driving link of the spectator's attention is to get to the end of all those coincidences and find out what's in there (once more like in his other major experiment, los amantes...). This is modern storytelling, the most advanced we can get at this moment.The trick in Medem's case (and it is where he departs from his other Spanish speaking filmmakers, like Iñarritu or Cuálron) is to work with realities that may or not be provisional. As a spectator, you never know whether you are watching to the film's reality or to fiction inside Lorenzo's fiction. We also get rather unclear (or with the clatiry Medem allows) where and when the action takes place. He creates places, in imagination, non physical (the film becomes itself its own place, in indefinite time, in a Medem drawn world). The own island has its own unknown contours, undefined, we don't know if it is desert or occupied, or how far it is from reality.The soundtrack is discreet but efficient. The theme is lyrical by principle, coherent with the rest, and it takes the film to some relation with Italian lyrical cinema (Tornatore's direction, Rota or Piovani's music). It's an interesting mixture, we had seen it already in La teta i la lluna, by Lunas (spanish, catalan to be precise) with Piovani's soundtrack (italian). This mixes the production conceived to be beautiful in every moment (italian) with the constant search for the inconscience in human mind (Medem studied psychiatry), the unknown in the soul and the absolute drama, in a contemporary view.Obviously the photography is over the top on purpose (dream like), with excessive exposure to the light, but that is a choice i don't agree. But that is a really minor flaw, taking the other advantagesMy evaluation 4/5. I do believe Medem will soon produce something worth maximum rate. i'll wait for it. Meanwhile, don't miss this "},{"Title":"deeply satisfying","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To my surprise, I really enjoyed this film. Surprised just because the title was awfully misleading as semi-porno and I was not expecting to be this delicious and arty.Yes, sex is important in this film, but what resonated in my mind at the end was not the sex itself, but the way in which humans are affected and bonded with each other by sex. Here the sex was shown openly and passionately but sometimes animistic therefore tragic(typically Spanish?). But it was never dealt as mere lust or cheap pleasure. Sex induces both physical pleasure and emotional pain, which soon becomes 'pleasure' of pain and 'pain' of pleasure. The boundaries between love and lust was not so clear, casual sex and true love was never defined. A child(Luna) born from one night stand becomes a 'gem' to both Elena and Lorenzo, and the death of their child haunts them so badly. I don't think child's death to cause reconciliation or create strong bonding between people is cheap or plot-ish. It is universal catch and it does not bother me.I liked the ambiguity in every respect non-linear narrative and concept of time, fragmented images of reality and fantasy, some of which are symbolic(colours, sun and moon etc.) but not too straightforward. I liked the way in which Lucia and Elena were linked together, they also had special bond through Lorenzo. Some may have criticized it as pretentious and over-indulgent, but there is no space in this film to contemplate any socio-political aspect or moral challenge. Some'looseness' that leaves us the greater freedom of interpretation and imagination, and opens to the different dimensions to explore for each viewer. This makes this Luxia y el sexo so enduring. It is personal, sensuous and poetic fantasy.I liked it because this film was not too tightly conceptualized or over-simplified, and intricate way to show human relationships give the depth and richness, to resonate with each other. The visual and sonic beauty of this film is so irresistible, and magnetic performances of main characters are in great support to make this film successful.Personally this film was my wonderful discovery of the Julio Medem as a director and charismatic, ethereal Nijwa Nimri who played Elena. "},{"Title":"A visual interwoven treat","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike the previous review, I do not agree that this movie is pure sex. That said however, Sex and Lucia is not without carnal frivolity. The first half of the film is pure sexual eye candy yet pulls the viewer into an interestingly woven plot line. This intertwining plot line while at first confusing, draws the viewer into the story as it slowly unfolds. Superb writing, with an almost songlike quality to the script, add to starkly contrasting cinematic visuals. A very entertaining film.The film does a good job of putting the viewer into the eyes of Lucia and takes us into a journey of (heavy) passion and into the deepest core of the Lorenzo / Lucia relationship.  "}{"Title":"soft movie, sensitive","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting movie. Erotic scene combined width action, drama give a good taste at the end of the movie. Have a good feeling. The second day I recommend this movie to all my friends. "},{"Title":"Found it fascinating","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took a little while for me to figure what was going on but once I got into the story I was hooked. I think it is a very well made story and I also think that the depictions of sex were necessary to the whole theme. As in the title, sex is what it was all about. I think very well acted and directed. 9/10. "},{"Title":"really good movie but banded from viewing","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay so this is a good okay movie but living in censored america were all we get to see is t and a. this film is much more liberal my mom doesn't let me see it anymore after she saw the explicit nudity that was on the unrated spanish version, lets just say many male actors gave standing ovations to there performances. well as for the plot it sucked you in at first it was somewhat of a love story but then it turned sour and the plot just fades with the adding of the perverted baby sister.but i did enjoy watching the oh so cute lozano i forget the actors name. i would say this is much better than the much overhyped y tu mama tambien which was a waste of 3.95 on my cable bill. "},{"Title":"i love this movie","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  if talk to her is a 10/10-this movie is a 9/10.  this movie is similar to talk to her.  anywAy i dont know what else to compare it too. it has amazing sex scenes and it is a thoughtful deep film.  i loved the actresses-the storyline.  its a great unpredictable movie "},{"Title":"simply deep!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i dont understand why certain ppl just underestimate this brilliant movie and critize the film due to its sexual stuff.comon..are u in denial?sex and life is co-exist.everyone think and want it.when in public certain ppl act like they think sex is so taboo and disgusted talkin about it but behind the doors.it seems everyone simply wanting more and perhaps far more desprate than those average ppl who they labelize as sex maniac or immoral.comon.be real.i virtue this movie for its beutiful meaning of love,and relationship.of lorenzo and lucia.the story has been layered in a carefully plan plot which amazingly makes my mind working trying to figure out the clue and whats the meaning behind the dialogue and the visual.for example the scene elena and 'lorenzo' at the dinner scene is wonderfully crafted..with the dialogue and double meaning.'lorenzo'. elena and luna. and how careful they plan the story goin on at the dinner scene is simply terific.i can feel the tense,and whole things goin on in the kitchen and with kid at the table add some charms to the scene.u might wonder why i put it as'lorenzo', not lorenzo.well u will find the answer if u watch the movie with ur heart.not only ur eyes.watch it with ur hearts,with the mind and try to capture each message that they try to convey in the movie.i bet ppl who simply trash out this movie as disgusted movie might need to evaluate themselves. is't u or is't the director's fault that makes u cannot understand the movie well?think why cant u see from the directors point of view and why cant u absorb the message in the movie.dont simply point fingers.well this show how narrow-minded ppl dis days..they tend to backlash everything and fail to sucks the marrow of life. for example instead of blaming the so call 'terorist' from doin 'evil' things why dont we figured out WHY the reason they do such 'evil' things?are they the evil or are we?sometimes we should see the world in different perspective.and then we will respect other ppl more.dont blame the director or blame the movie if u think the movie sucks or sumthin.sex and lucia trying to tell us something here.how much can we learn from it?and how good are we to figure out the meaning behind sex and lucia? even the title it self- sex and lucia.is't just a title to attract viewers or is there something behind it?think about it.... "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is about a man and three women's lives. During the film there were three stories going on separately, but in the end these stories converge together to become one story. This left the spectators to think about what could happen if this did or did not happen. There is much room for imagination.I like this film a lot because of multiple reasons. The story was good and it had an unexpected outcome. The little pieces of information that didn't seem to make sense in the beginning became clear as the movie progressed. It was like a jigsaw puzzle being put together into the right place. The second thing is, the actors and actresses all performed very well. They displayed a great range of acting skills, and the spectators can feel what they were thinking in their heads. Also, the scenery was very beautiful. There were many scenes which were shot on a beautiful beach, and this made the film more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"humanistic theme lushly depicted","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the third movie of Julio Medem that I have seen La Ardilla Roja, Vacas, and Lucia y el sexo. Fascinating and very personal films. I think I am beginning to see a red line though Medem's work. It is all about human tragedy and suffering. Civil war (as in Vacas), suicide (Ardilla Rojo) or lethal accident (in Lucia y el sexo). The suffering is caused by the people themselves, with their fallibility. They don't forgive themselves (as Lorenzo does in this film), or others don't forgive them (the revenge theme in Vacas). The consequence is that human suffering is much increased. As in Vacas, only emigration enables people to escape from violence that comes from unforgiven crimes. The solution Medem presents us is forgiveness. People need a second chance, even after great failure. Each story can be retraced, enabling people to work towards a better ending. In a way the musician Jota in the Ardilla Roja does that he gives himself a second chance by helping the coma girl, even though he has to deceive her for it. In Vacas, the crimes of one generation fester on into future generations, until an end is put to the revenge cycle by migration. In Lucia y el sexo, Lorenzo finally forgives himself. So does Elena accept her fate. The closing scene of the film suggests that even after horrendous failure and misery, some happy end is possible. If only we accept the limitations of ourselves and others. I find this a humanistic message, that accepts human frailty and suggests some way forward by forgiveness. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great photography, great actors, great sex, great entertainment... The story a little weak sometimes, but you cannot have it all can you ?Go see for yourself. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie, a great story, a lot of sex that becomes unnoticed.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant movie, a great story, a lot of sex that becomes unnoticed. After the tragic story of his latter film, Amantes del Círculo Polar, Medem rewards with his audience with this beautiful tale. Packed with passion and love Lucía fights for what she believes, and the tormented Lorenzo discovers what he never had. Few characters build up a great story. I'm sorry for those intimidated by the sex scenes, I found them so real and authentic. There's much more than sex in this movie, please watch it again..... "},{"Title":"definitely worthwhile","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An overall good film.  Definitely reminiscent of Bunuel.  Symbolic balance very strong theme in this film concerning light/dark imagery.  Not only is light and dark visually struggling in this film, the character's symbolic representations grapple for equilibrium as well.  I felt the film needed some more time spent in editing room however.  The film's pace is extremely drastic.  Beginning at warp speed and finishing a tortoise.  Whether this is done deliberately or not, I wouldn't know.  From my seat however, I eagerly sought out The End towards the last half hour of the film.caveat emptor Will definitely get the blood flowing! "}{"Title":"Worth seeing but not compelling","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why does one go to a movie? For entertainment? stimulation? satisfaction? fulfillment? Sex and Lucia supplies them all and then some but in distressingly varying proportions. Its cinematography and special effects are entertaining. Its sex scenes are stimulating if not terribly imaginative or germane. Its ending it satisfactorily middle-class. But alas, its fulfillment quotient is rather low. Is there a message in this movie? Why did they go to the trouble and expense?If the theme is that every end is a beginning or that each has the power to write his/her own story de novo on a daily basis, did we need such a ponderous vehicle after Sartre et al expressed it so well so long ago?Clearly, the flic had more questions than answers, at least from my point of view. Perhaps that gives the pornography some redeeming social value. If there is any real art in this film, its infused by the viewers. Not a bad effort at something grand but somehow the whole is less than the sum of its parts and ultimately unfulfilling. "},{"Title":"Much more involving than I thought.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The trailers for this film capitalize on its sexuality and naturalistic dialogue, and in the tough economic climate for non-US films these days, I'm not surprised.  But, the beautiful part about this film was its evolving complexity, and the depth of its characters' struggle with their pasts and each other, which came as a welcome shock.  Every face on screen is expressive and well shot, and the twisty, thoughtful script capitalizes on the acting talents of its (mostly) young cast and the distinctive beauty of its island setting.  I wasn't so impressed with the washed-out photography, but everything else about this film was much more keen, incisive, and pleasant than I expected, and I had high expectations.  Charming! "},{"Title":"An interesting experience.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sex and Lucia had all the ingredients to be a wonderful experience both emotionally as well as intellectually. Intellectually, the film parallels the difficult creation process, and very elegantly mixes in imagination and reality. The central character is a writer, and the film follows his life story while he's writing a novel, based on the events he is currently living. What's more complex and thus more interesting, is that the female character, Lucia, is telling us the story as if she was writing the book herself or more precisely, unearthing from her memory, the elements of the plot. Visually the movie is stunning. The director worked very hard on his framing and angles. The lighting gives the look of an image burnt by the sun. All this together creates a unique and powerful style. Also a sensuous experience, as the beginning illustrates Lucia tracking a writer she admires, and declaring to him her unconditional love in a bar. Because love is contagious, the writer, who easily confesses to being lost himself emotionally, also falls for her. A passionate sexual relationship follows, shot with an unblinking eye by the director who doesn't mind (which is unusual) showing full frontal male erections, as part of his eroticism. All these elements are so dense and so successfully played out, that we could have had a masterpiece. Unfortunately, the film views more like a memoir than a novel. The director, or rather the writer, adds an unnecessary second layer to the story, and then tops that with a third, then fourth, etc., to the point of suffocating his audience to the degree his character is lost.  "},{"Title":"Why use a metaphor for desire when you don't have to?","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Desire pervades every scene of this film, be it a woman for her lover, her lover for the company of his daughter, or his daughter's mother for a cherished night in the moon-kissed sea.  Sometimes, this desire is fulfilled, and the film's sex-drenched first 30 minutes are a writhing testament to this fact.  Sometimes, the desire is left to smolder, later erupting into destructive flames.The filmmakers leave little to the imagination, featuring a graphic scene of sex, including full-frontal shots of aroused adults.  Such scenes are used judiciously, however, allowing the juxtaposition of the good times and the bad in a stormy relationship between Lucia and Lorenzo, her troubled boyfriend.  The story takes place over six years, and is unveiled in a non-linear fashion; one's complete faculties are sometimes necessary to keep the characters straight.  Parallel storylines do eventually merge, but in an unexpected fashion.  The principal actors turn in commendable performances, although the supporting cast and direction are the true stars.If you're in the mood for a little more subtlety in your cinema, you might be better served by renting Like Water for Chocolate.  But pure desire is not often photographed as well as in this arthouse piece. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A totally involving, passionate film, if a bit confusing at times ...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great film. After a fantastically serene title sequence, it plunges straight in to relationships stretched to the extremes. The acting is flawless from the first scene, and it's a matter of minutes before tangible empathy takes root. For me, the major triumph of the film was the way that intense love the central characters have for each other doesn't in any way feel unrealistic or over the top. If Hollywood had made this film the romantic elements would probably have been pumped with sugar coating and sickly clichés, but here it is genuinely moving. My only criticism of the film was that when the narrative started skipping around I was left a little confused. There is a story-within-a-story theme that left me wondering which parts were real, but by the end I'd got all the pieces in place (more or less). I didn't let the ambiguities bother me too much; they're arguably what made me think about the film long after I left the cinema.Obvious symbolism ties much of the film together, whilst making many of the locations seems unreal and magical. The photography is beautiful and soundtrack subtly steers your emotions as the plot dances around you. Once again, European cinema shows that well crafted storytelling is the heart and soul of all good movies.  "},{"Title":"lucia y el sexo!!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sex and Lucia is very much the style of Julio Medem, the director of los amantes del circulo polar, which is one of my favorite movies . It is very hard to describe the movie , and frankly , I wouldn't want to spoil it for you by telling you all the details. Suffice to say, it is an amazing story within an amazing story , and you will get lost until the end , when every piece falls into place. Fiction and reality will mix , but in the end , fiction dies. This story is a story full of advantages , because there is a hole in the end which will take you exactly to the middle of the story, giving you the chance to change the end, if you let yourself. "},{"Title":"Lovely, smart, beautiful film!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the 2002 Seattle International Film Festival - and sure, I picked the film partly because of the word 'sex' in the title. . . But even though parts of the film could nearly be categorized as soft-core porn, you'll honestly nearly forget it - because you'll be overwhelmed by the incredibly breathtaking scenery and the intermingling story lines.  It flashes around quite a bit (think Memento-style) but you're not confused at all!  The only other thing I can remotely compare this film will make you feel as delighted by this film as Life is Beautiful, in the way that the film deals with somewhat dark subject matter, but it makes you appreciate the love in your life and where it leads you. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So refreshing to see a movie portraying sexuality in all is aspects without being the horrible anti-sex American-style you can smell the money type pornography. Ironically, a very close cousin to this movie is the American movie 9 1/2 weeks. Both movies captured the positive and negative aspects of sexuality without being porn. Sex and Lucia had more full nudity but nudity has very little to do with porn. Porn is a mixture of sexuality and money that is actually the antithesis of real sexuality. Overall the movie was very warm and playful balanced with tragedy, guilt and redemption. The characters were all excellent, especially Lorenzo and Lucia, playing their parts with emotion and a sincerity lacking in most movies. The sex between them was beautiful. The plot was a little hard to follow if you don't speak Spanish so I was glad I was watching a DVD that I could skip backwards.The cinematography was excellent. The digital effects were very effective and so subtle that you may have only noticed their effect. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sex and Lucia is simply a fantastic film. Julio Medem's complex tale forces the viewer's full attention immediately, and one must remain focused to follow and unravel the wonderful scenarios that continue to take place. Many people comment primarily on the vivid sex scenes in the film, and the sensuality of the film is certainly a vital part; but if one focuses solely on this aspect so much beauty of the film will be overlooked. This is not only one the most captivating love stories in cinema's vast history (as is Medem's Lovers of the Arctic Circle), but the near perfection of story and acting are equaled and at times even surpassed by the mesmerizing cinematography. This is one the most gorgeous films ever put to celluloid. This film gets the highest vote possible from me and I encourage anyone of age to explore its themes and narrative. And if at the core of it all, you are simply looking for racy, creative sex scenes, then look no further. Sex and Lucia has some of the best ones ever, with so much more to offer as well. "},{"Title":"Magnificent !","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As often before, I am stunned after watching a Spanish movie. This is a true work of art and shows how much talent there is in that corner of Europe.Lucia y el sexo is a movie about the love between passionate people. Once again led by determined, intelligent, strong and sexy women with the male characters reduced to passive or vulnerable. Not negatively described, just vulnerable. The sex is the driving force in the movie and is pictured very realistically. Over the top, unnecessary would some people say - how it actually is when you're in love, would I say. Wild, tempting and amazing. Medem makes picturesque movies filled with small astonishing stories and breathtaking pictures. I always end up thinking about all these small stories, delicate links, objects that make me wonder about life. A gift Medem always has been given and is happy to give on. Yes, the sex, and yes, the life. Its a story about fragile people, but furthermore passion and fate in its raw essence. Hard and beautiful.Saura, Almodovar, Amenabar, Medem, Bigas Luna, Coixet....all these great Spanish movie directors who invades cinemas worldwide...keep it coming !  "}{"Title":"There are two ways to do everything the easy way and the Spanish way","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Which is perhaps the reason why Spaniards are winning motor-cycle Grand Prix, Formula 1 Gran Prix, Football competitions, Basketball championships, Golf Tournaments, World Tennis Tournaments, 1,500 metre races, Grammys, Emmys, the odd Oscar now and again, but without much success in the Eurovision Song Contest in recent years ........ So Julio Medem takes this complicated formula one step - or more - further and comes up with a somewhat lop-sided involuted story, which, if you like, might be classified as a love story, or, if you like not, might be classified as a sex story. In either case you would be missing the point.As with `Los Amantes del Círculo Polar' (qv), Julio Medem opts for seemingly disjointed narrative, jumping back and forth, but not in a two-dimensional sense, but rather in an umpteen-dimensional sense. Thus he carries to the nth degree erratic manoeuvres between the now and the then and other intermediary points, such that if the explicit sex has not put off your concentration too much you might well follow what is, in effect, an intriguing story, with all its bizarre ennui attached. Once again, linking up the out-of-sequence scenes is not for those more intent on finishing off their pop-corn or wondering whether the boyfriend/girlfriend is going to hold her/his hand before the film gets too far on.Bringing together Paz Vega, Elena Anaya and Javier Cámara so that they would be ready for `Hable con Ella' (qv) and adding Najwa Nimri after her excellent results in `Los Amantes del Círculo Polar', Medem throws into the mix Tristán Ulloa and conjures up a horrifyingly painful story of glorious love and frenzied sex. But I insist that the sexual inferences are not the point but only the vehicle for carrying the story forward - with its overly frequent jumps backward - so that all the ends can be neatly tied up, or apparently so, so as to reach what is, in the last few minutes, the foreseeable happy ending. The whole point of the film is, as far as I am aware, to portray the young modern woman today who wants - craves - her bit of good sex as much as any man does, and we do not need served-up macho interpretations to be convinced of it. Evidently, Medem, as Almodóvar, has a good hand with the ladies, and this film puts such asseveration beyond doubt. What I question is whether such blatantly explicit sex scenes were necessary for getting the point across, especially as it would seem that Medem is aiming at audiences whose intellectual appetite is somewhat higher than `Notting Hill', say, or `You've got Mail', say. Such supposed audience would or should have enough imagination to carry him/her through such scenes. But today everything is served up straight, on a plate, and dished out accordingly, symptomatic of today's idealistic `unique thinking'.But Medem defies such straight-jacket ways of doing things. As in `Los Amantes del Círculo Polar', here what might be called happenstance or fortuitous casualties, brings together a number of people on the Balearic island of Formentera, in such a way that the link up between them should help you along through the out-of-sequence scenes. The symbolic thread is the moon - thus the little girl is called 'Luna'. Medem uses this concept very appropriately, creating dialogues to carry forward the idea and putting visual images into great use so as to help the story-line along. Perfectly orchestrated by Alberto Iglesias, in consonance with Kiko de la Rica's excellent photography, the whole is rather like a choreographed tableau, as if only the skates and ice were missing.I recommend this film for viewers who can grasp the essentials of abstract, sometimes fantasious symbolisms and has a clear mind on the rôle of primeval sex as a driving force in women - as well as men.  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie, But Misses in a Few Areas","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In all, I liked this movie.  It seemed to have a lot of potential to be a much better movie.  The beginning of the movie seemed to establish some beautiful cinematography and direction, but this seemed to taper off as the movie wore on.The picture does have a considerable amount of sex, much of it more graphic than I am used to seeing in all but genuinely pornographic movies.   If that sort of thing offends you, be forewarned. I don't consider this pornographic - and the sex didn't strike me as gratuitous.The direction was good and the acting was certainly acceptable.  I think the biggest failing was the excess of coincidence in the plot.  There was no attempt to explain how some of the character's paths crossed.  The character development was interesting enough that the plot weaknesses didn't fail the movie as a whole. "},{"Title":"Lucia is NOT porn!!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't call a movie cheap porn if it has some images of male and female reproductive organs and some sex scenes. One has to be ignorant as an american not to see the difference between a cheap porn and a good film.Lucia is a film about passion and sufferings that many people experience in their lives ; not a cheap porn flick as some of you think! And it is one of the best movies I've seen in past 10 years.  "},{"Title":"Fine movie","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucia y el sexo is a fine movie. First of all, the movie is funny, smart, and daring. Some things in the script were a bit hard to understand (I think if you watch it a second time, things become clearer, and besides - what's the use of a movie that doesn't keep you guessing?) but because of the humor and speed of the narration, it didn't distract me at all from the general feeling of esthetical satisfaction I had while watching this movie. The locations are very nice and the actors are well-cast. Especially Lucia (Paz Vega) is defintely impressive (and not only in the nude-scenes!) People who watch movies for a 'correct' plot only, should not watch this movie, I guess. Stick to Agatha Christie murder-mysteries or so. For sure, they will not leave you pondering over life's mysteries.This movie does. It makes you think while leaving you with a good feeling at that.  "},{"Title":"Are we more catholics than the pope ?","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film, especialy because is different then the usual american style  movies. You can see here the real colour of life, not the irrealistic sunnydays which are omnipresent in almost any commercial production overseas. I think is a great movie(let's say 8/10) . Lucia is the girl next door, the environment looks just like yours, and the outrageous scenes of sex are natural and nonintrusive. I liked the plot, it reminded me a little David Linch, the third part is a liant for the first two, and, even if the end is a little bit unsalted, the overwiew gives an impressive result. Sorry for my english! "},{"Title":"Grabs you","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me a while to get in to the film, but once it grabbed me, it did not let go.  Great performances, and a great job by the director of leading us through the rather twisting (twisted?) story, make for a great film. "},{"Title":"LONGER, THICKER AND UNCUT!!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies around! Do you think Hollyhood could come up with something like this h*** no!!  The first time the male is full-frontal and with annnn attitude, Hurray for Julio Medem and the great cast of Sex And Lucia . It is a little long-in-the-tooth near the end and for the most part the plot is transparent, But that all fade's away with the torrid sex scene's between Paz Vega (Lucia) and Tristan Ulloa (Lorenzo) and a great scene of Daniel Freire (Carlos) on the beach caked in mud What a long scene it was.  "},{"Title":"When are they going to call it porn.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see the same baby steps I saw when the Nudie Cutie films made the transition from soft core to hard core.  1)  You show an erect male penis being stroked by either the guy or his friend.  2) Show some actual hard core (mostly blow jobs) on film or TV screen, 3) maybe show some female masturbation.  Keep the usual obscured actual penetration and just enough passion to think that the might be doing it.  I was just waiting for the disconnected spunk shot.This is a porn film without the porn--The sex has virtually nothing to do with the plot, but nothing is really shown that you have not seen before.This plot is so thin and the ending telegraphed so blatantly, you keep hoping that the writers will come up with an original ending--pero no!.They should have gone with the wild sexual romp.The girls are some of the most gorgeous you will probably see for a while--thanks to extremely competent Spanish(?) plastic surgeons.Just watch the first half, then walk out  you will get your money's worth. "},{"Title":"very pretty and deeply flawed","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By far the most interesting character in this film is the island ofFormentera. (It is left unnamed in the movie, for MaximumSymbolism Impact.) The place looks like the afterlife and the filmmade me want to go there in a hurry. (The island, not the afterlife...well, on second thought...) The other thing that I liked about Sex and Lucia was, yes, the sex.The sexual situations were VERY explicit and abundant, and,startlingly, humorous; the filmmaker understands that sex can behot and touching and funny as hell, all at once. This is extremelyrare. No prurience or coyness here, thank heaven. That said, there are real problems with the film. Lead MaleLorenzo (say it with a lisp) is a cipher, an unappealing, vagueperson whose pull on his flock of beautiful women is totallyinexplicable. I had a hard time buying him as the magnetic sexualdynamo he was meant to be. Around the charisma-free Lorenzo revolve, by my count, at leastthree separate movies. Sex and Lucia shifts perspective sofrequently and abruptly that, although the plot isn't difficult to follow,I felt like I was watching a whole different deal each time. Heyguys, I wanna make a mystery, a romance, and a tragedy/dramabut i only have enough budget to make one film... AGH.When all's said and done, this flick is substandard in many waysbut probably worth catching once it goes to the sticky-floor, $2.50second-run art house. Elena Anaya out-Angelina-ing Angelina maybe worth the price of admission, all by herself. Well, Elena and theMaximally Symbolic Island. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining!!!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My friends and I were debating about what movie to go see the other night. I suggested a foreign art film because I was getting sick of all the Hollywood story lines that were starting to look alike.  Anyway, we saw a film that was moving, wild, unpredictable, emotional, seductive, and dramatic.  I fell in love with the characters so much I didn't know what to do.  You are definitely moved and excited.  Yes, you get excited...admit it. I have never seen such an explicit film that was so raw, yet romantic and pure.  It was so forbidden but adventurous.  I have seen a lot of foreign film that have raw sex, but this one...took the show.  The colors in the film are also unique in that I'm sure they were chosen so that your eyes would not wear out because of so much life you see.Incredible film from Spain.  I'm going to marry my next woman from that beautiful country. "}{"Title":"Okay what did I miss.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all please understand that I am not a movie critic. I watched the movie on IFC 8/15/06. I had a hard time understanding the relationship between Lucia and Elana(How did they meet). The backdrop for the movie was beautiful and the actors did a great job. However I never really got a sense of what happened to Luna. I went to bed after watching the movie and I felt incomplete as far as the ending,wondering if I had fell asleep at some point during the movie. Why was Belen taking care of Luna? How did Lorenzo get hurt? How did Elana end up on the island. How did Pepe find out about Luna? Loved the sex in the movie and so did my girlfriend. But I think I will have one of my buddies watch it and explain it to me! "},{"Title":"Heavy handed symbolism and contortionist plot","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is sex and Lucia all about?  This isn't as clear from the title as it would seem and after churning it over nothing gets any clearer.  Sex does appear, quite frequently, and links many of the characters together but the film isn't all about sex.  In fact sex is unembarrassing, pleasurable and regret free and although it appears often it seems simply to be presented as a fact of life.  Unfortunately everything else seems to be part of a dizzying metaphor in a cyclical plot.  Unless deconstructing convoluted narratives is your thing this can be a problem.  Lucia is a waitress who follows and seduces Lorenzo an author who writes books about passionate encounters and into cycle we go.  Couplings, fantasies and melodramas unfold, events mirror each other, and the timeline twists and turns on itself and in the end (it all gets very metaphysical) I think Medem tries to tell us that imagination makes reality what we will.  What's real and what is invention becomes irrevocably blurred (is this the point?).  The symbolism becomes heavy handed, even the holiday island that the characters revolve around itself is almost not an island, criss-crossed by subterranean sea caves where one can enter at one point and emerge at another and fantastically rocks in stormy weather.Despite the maturity and tenderness with which the love scenes are treated, the heavy handed symbolism and contortionist plot work to throw off any emotional intensity that the acting and powerful soundtrack can build.  It ends up being too clever to exercise any real intelligence.  "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is OK up until the last third which is just a redundant and long-winded exposition of the first 2/3 of the movie. Granted, the movie can be hard to follow because of the vast amounts of symbolism and somewhat confusing story line, but it becomes very clear by the half-way point. The ending is boring and frustrating. It was a kinda cool idea for a film, but it was so poorly executed that I can't recommend that anyone go see it.  "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've ever seen. Despite the sex and nudity the plot is ridiculous, the actors are mediocre, and the script is so bad that it verges on the involuntarily funny. The plot reminds of certain films by Almodovàr, but unfortunately Julio Medem is not Almodovàr.The sex disappears after one third of the story. Paz Vega is certainly beautiful and we see a lot of her (especially naked) but she can't save this awful mess. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Just Terrible","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie started poorly and just got worse. The story was weak, the characters were shallow and poorly developed, the writing was not strong and the acting was mediocre. Each plot and sub-plot was washed out and uninteresting, it was convoluted, messy and there were continuity errors or maybe, in the mind of the director, they were 'devices' - in any case the story development was poorly executed. The way the story was knitted together using tricks and gimmicks where nothing is quite explained and the narration and dialogue is in riddles... very juvenile and poorly conceived, maudlin and misguided. The relationship between the leads was also not believable, probably in large part due to the fact that the Lorenzo character was a miscast. I would give it a 0 but can't because I couldn't finish it (very rare for me) and so it wouldn't be fair to give a full 0. Also, some of the cinematography was nice (albeit gimmicky at times) and Ana Vargas was very hot earning modest points, but overall an abject failure and waste of time. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok... Maybe I enjoyed this film because I clearly went to see it with a bunch of misconceptions... I thought (a) it was an Italian film (its Spanish), (b) I blanked on the ending of Lucia and for some reason thought it was about a guy... (and of course, Lucia is a girl...) (c) I thought it was about said 'guy' having a romping good time shooting through 3 girls. Clearly the movie review I heard was also a little confused!Instead, I was really pleasantly surprised to find out that this was actually a really good, if somewhat unacategoriseable film! I mean there was humour, there was drama, there was defintely some plot twists, obviously some sex scenes and it was thoroughly engaging all the way through! I had to laugh though, although many complain about the gratuitous female nudity, this film did slip with the editing of the male nudity, making that seem gratuitous - but in an era where all the Hollywood actress spend half a movie naked and having sex with fully clothed men, it was nice just to see some male nudity (when was the last time you saw a post-80s Hollywood movie with as much male bare chest as in Ben Hur?!)!Its very hard to write about this movie in depth - the plot does twist a lot - clearly evident by some of the reviews indicating the reviewer was defintely confused. I suspect this is because the premise of the film was to write a story where if you didn't like the ending, there was an escape hatch to return to the middle - which it did. However, the actors in this movie are so good, and the character development is excellent so that its hard not to get swept up in the gorgeous filming and unfolding plot. I really enjoyed this film, but if you like your adult films to be mindless fluff, this film isn't for you. But if you want to be entertained for 2 solid hours - this film is defintely right up your alley!  "},{"Title":"Not so good prose, great poetry","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is circonvoluted, with many loopholes and inconsistencies. The prose -including the writings of Lorenzo, the main character- is rather corny. But we are told to forget those loopholes, and rather penetrate one of the holes in everyman's fantasy island, and end up somewhere else, where women declare to us unrequitted love, remember the one-night stand they had with us as a glorious moment in their lives or choose us as their wild sex partner, in a world of limited pain and certain forgiveness.We are sent by Menem into a different place. A place where feelings, and not the story, counts. The place one will remember for a long time where the tidal flow made by full moons is also the flow of our soul, where we can see happiness as an island -or rather, a raft- in the midst of a sea of indiference, where we can find Lucía's loving and admiring eyes and smile, and live in them forever.     "},{"Title":"I suspect Medem wished to show the contradictory conundrum sex brings to all who worship at cupid's altar.","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The allure and the puzzle of sex are amply presented in `Sex and Lucia.' After the loss of her long-time boyfriend, a writer, young waitress Lucia retreats from Madrid to a Mediterranean island. There she discovers the labyrinthine life of her lover through the pages of his novel.Smarter critics than I cannot give an accurate rendering of the convoluted plot. At its most basic, two who don't even know each other's names have a night of sex in the sea around a remote island, resulting in a daughter unknown for many years to the father, the novelist.Along with periods of writer's block, he becomes involved with a couple of ladies who connect to that early tryst in tangential `six- degrees-of-separation' ways that show the magnetic power of sex and is effect on almost everyone in one way or another.The setting at times reminds me of Paul Mazursky's `Tempest'-warm sun and beaches enveloping a magical island.  Indeed there is even some magical realism in `Sex and Lucia' associated with the moon, a recurring motif of madness and the name of the central child, Luna. Director/writer Julio Medem's use of digital camera through much of the film produces washed-out shots of beach and sun-not a favorable visual effect when dealing with passion and love. Medem has touched on many themes such as the search for a father, the corrosive nature of raw sex, the inspiration of sex for writing, and the interdependence of progeny and sex, parents and lovers. He interestingly wrote the screenplay before he wrote the novel, ending up writing the final screenplay from the novel.  These circumstances may be reflected in the confusing plot, but I suspect Medem wished to show the contradictory conundrum sex brings to all who worship at cupid's altar.`Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps, ' the poet once said. Medem succeeds in showing us no one escapes the arrows. "},{"Title":"A confusing yet good movie","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually really liked this movie.  The entire thing was in SPANISH so I watched the ENGLISH Sub Titles.  The lead character, Lucia, was very beautiful and the movie was not short on nudity.  There was actually a lot of MALE frontal nudity which I have never seen in an R rated MOVIE.  I loved the way Lorenzo acted toward his child, Luna.  There was a special way about their communication.  A lot of this movie was dreamlike.  The plot jumped around in terms of TIMES.  There are a lot of unanswered questions that I have about this movie.  I won't go into it.  However, if you like movies that have VERY NICE scenary and can open yourself to reading subtitles for TWO HOURS, than this is the MOVIE FOR YOU.  Beware of the beach scene with CARLOS covered in MUD. We see a little TOO MUCH of ol' Carlos in that scene.  There were many scenes in this movie that left me SCRATCHING MY HEAD, asking myself Why did they show that and WHAT does it mean?  IN otherwords, this is a DEEP movie about love, confusion, lust and insanity.  But heck, I liked it!! "},{"Title":"It is very artistic all along, very touching at times, but why so much sex?","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is very artistic all along, very touching at times, but why so much sex, I did not get that.Direction, playwrite, camera work all deserve full marks.As for the sex, well it is easy to point out what you wont see. 'Nothing' "}{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is both boldly sexual and sweepingly sentimental. Lucia's and Lorenzo's relationship as it is depicted is very frank about the nature of their bond. Their mutual passion for each other is shown by Bedem in all of its intensity and playfulness, its insecurities, its warmth and eventually the sexual detachment of Lorenzo due to a trauma which he cannot speak of to Lucia. Some scenes are very bold and imaginative, such as someone imitating a sex film, or a penis growing before your eyes while a man massages a woman. But eventually the deep sentimental connections between the characters are laid out, and some may find all the sentimentality as jarring as the sex. Bedem is a confident filmmaker, and he paces the unraveling of his story in such a way to keep the viewer interested in some aspect of the mystery of Lorenzo. More than simply visually frank, the sex in the film really goes a long way in painting the characters of the film and the relationships between the characters engaged in sexuality, and even those outside of the act. The actors, for the most part, played roles of often complex and enigmatic characters (such is the nature of the narrative) with enough depth to keep you interested in them. Paz Vega played Lucia's passionate character with much effectiveness, even when the role or the lines she was given seemed at times to be made somewhat clunky or exaggerated. While I often found the film to be overly sentimental, this is certainly another unique and adventurous work by Bedem, whose other film I have seen is The Red Squirrel. It plays with the interaction between fiction and life, between past and present, physical connection and metaphysical connection, bringing you into a world where they all blend together in one island brought together by love, sex, and death. "},{"Title":"violent","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you find the title is titillating, and you like romance, that's about as much as you're going to get in the title. The acting was heartfelt but I found the plot was presented to thrill and add suspense and mirror the conflicts of characters, which left me feeling the plot was was convoluted and confusing. I couldn't tell who was who some of time and didn't want to at others. While the movie has beautiful cinematography and is effective it is emotionally wrenching. that's good if you like that sort of head-job. If, for example, your tastes run to things that Pedro Almodovar directs, you might like it. It gave me nightmares for days of the nightmares of Lorenzo. "},{"Title":"Sexiest film of all time.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the hottest film I have ever seen.  It is the story of an author and three of his lovers, focusing on the great love of his life, Lucia.  All of these women make permanent impressions on Lorenzo, although he only intends make make anything lasting with Lucia.  He has a one-night stand with a woman at the beach, who bears a daughter.  He has a one-night stand years later with his daughter's baby sitter, and simultaneously his daughter is killed.What's the symbolism?  I don't know.  What I do know is that this is a thougtful, beautiful film full of naked sizzling Spaniards getting it on.    This is well worth a couple of hours of viewing time. "},{"Title":"Talented filmmaker produces a sexy, arty mess","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoilers)In a bar a pretty young Spanish girl walks up to a cute young Spanish man with a goofy expression and says she adores his novel and has been watching him and fallen madly in love with him.  She wants to start an affair right now and she hopes eventually he'll fall in love with her, too.  `I already have, he says,' and off they go.  Thus `Sex and Lucía' begins. And this was the grabber in the previews.This premise might be appealing to some  my heart sank.  The setup is too easy and too bland. The girl (Paz Vega  nice body; not much of an actress) looks like some sort of Madrid airhead debutante. (Actually in the movie she's only a waitress and has no pedigree.) The guy seems utterly naïve. Is this a couple I want to spend a couple of hours with? If Lorenzo (Tristán Ulloa  nice face; not much of a body) is really the writer he's supposed to be, why doesn't he say `Thank you very much, but I've got some writing to do'? The girl is pretty, but she's a stalker and a kook. It soon transpires that Lorenzo relies on what he experiences, or is told, for all the material in his novels, which are straightforward, simple narratives of the events depicted in this film.  Not that the way they're put together turns out to be simple.Or are we seeing only narratives that he has imagined?  Neither Lorenzo nor the filmmaker, Julio Medem, much cares if people are telling the truth or not, or if events narrated are imaginary or real.  It's all part of the fun of storytelling, Medem style.  The narrative is self-reflective and artificial in a way that results in our ultimate bafflement.  But though a lot of weird things happen, Lorenzo and Lucía are reunited at the end. What the future holds in store for them is anybody's guess, but I'd wager there will be sex, angst, and a lighthouse involved in the sequel.  I  hope that Medem, who clearly has gifts as a filmmaker, will bypass the sequel and try something less baroque next time.Fast forward, and agitated music tells us there is trouble with Lucía and Lorenzo. Lucía gets a phone call from the police.  Something has happened to Lorenzo.  As she holds the phone, she picks up a note from Lorenzo, sort of a goodbye.  The cop says something about Lorenzo and his motorcycle and bad news, and Lucía hangs up.  Wait a minute, now  if your lover is in serious trouble and the police are calling, you don't hang up.  But this illogical action is necessary so Lucía can be surprised later on in the movie when Lorenzo turns out to be alive.This first section is headed `Lucía.'  Now begins section two, `Sex.'  We never get to section three.  Modem's `non-linear' narrative style leaves a lot of holes this time (this movie isn't as successful as his previous `Los Amantes del Círcolo Polar,' Lovers of the Polar Circle, which was elegant and entrancing, if somewhat lightweight).  In fact his symbolic island, which Lucia goes to after Lorenzo's accident, because he's spoken of it so much, is literally full of holes, which characters fall into.  (Their story goes back to its middle when that happens, we're told.)How necessary the graphic sex is, is hard to say.  It's not any more justified here than in any other movie about people who're sexually involved with each other.  It may be natural for Lucía to walk around the apartment naked after her first night with Lorenzo, but is it necessary for us to see that?  I don't think so.  But she does have a nice body.  Both the title and the sex scenes seem contrived mainly to draw in more viewers. `Lovers of the Polar Circle' was a great deal more subtle, partly through being infinitely more restrained.  In `Sex and Lucía,' there's a grotesque disparity between the no doubt honest pretensions of the author/filmmaker to create a complex and engaging narrative, and the constant moments of bathetic porn.  A low point is the introduction of a macho, but undeveloped character - actually two undeveloped characters played by one actor, Carlos and Antonio (Daniel Freire), described as having the largest dick in the world.  This is art? You could have fooled me.And the plot is as expressionistic and overwrought as the sexuality.  By the time we encounter Lorenzo' love child, Luna, and her sexy baby-sitter, the baby-sitter's ex-porn-queen mother, and Luna's death by rottweiler because of Lorenzo's carelessness while having sex with the babysitter, it's all become way too much.There's a woman on the island running a guest house (there are guests too, but they're just wallpaper).  She's Luna's mother, and had anonymous sex with Alfonzo six years before.  I guess Alfonzo isn't as needy a guy as he seems in the scene where he first meets Lucía.  Maybe he does have a problem with sex, though.  Somehow I find all the risky sexuality and writerly angst difficult to attribute to the actor playing Alfonzo, Tristán Ulloa.  He still always has that sweet, goofy face from beginning to end.  His character is right when he says at one point he knows nothing about fatherhood.  We don't learn much about that, or even about love, or anything much else in life, from this picture.  Perhaps we do learn something about storytelling -- about how it can get too tangled up if you let it, and the result will be a sexy, arty mess.  "},{"Title":"European love sex; why are American's against it ?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julio Medem is something like an independent Spanish director.  His movies even obtaining several prices where never big box office hits, until this one, which has been highly applauded world around. When I see this movie at Toronto Film Festival, there was a lot of concern about exhibiting to an American public not ready for such EXPLICIT SEX SCENES. Similar opinion with `Y TU MAMA TAMBIEN !!!' which became a huge success in USA (apparently without being cut). Were the sex scenes the main appeal of these movies ?. No, the appeal is the frankness on the subject; which is something completely different.  If cinema is based on IMAGES; you have to show things, not only talk about them.  Let's think about a movie like BOOGIE NIGHTS; just one more moralist tale about the porn industry.  If you see the movie for a second time, you realize it is about nothing and absolutely shallow. Medem did things different. He started with `SEX IS EVERYTHING' and went for it but by the end you find out that those were just `MOMENTS' without any real importance in your life. The movie ends with `COMMUNICATION' is what really matters. Try to explain what happens in the movie is not worth; the story is as improbable or circular as any Almodovar movie could be. The point he is trying to gets is what really matters.This movie is not for everyone.  It requires a freedom of mind which is against PC; but if you feel that you are in a free country with a free mind, see this movie and think about.   "},{"Title":"The least bad of Medem's movies.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Medem is a pretentious director. Simbolism does not justify everything. _Vacas_ and this one are the little acceptable movies, which does not mean good, of his production.The most interesting element in this movie is the tension between fiction and reality, and how he keeps the mistery about how real the novel Lorenzo is writing actually is. "},{"Title":"Poor Spain","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh my, this was a bad one. What a pity to see that it looks like only the worst Spain films make it in foreign countries. Before you are thinking about watching Lucía y el sexo, be warned - the title refers to the subject. This one is definitely pornographic, and, even more interesting I do not know why! It could be just an average bad movie, but with the sex scenes, it becomes just awful. And they do not even look good, I sat in the theater and thought, well, what does that mean? And that is my personal opinion for the whole film, by the way. "},{"Title":"Disappointing pseudo-intellectual tripe","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I were to describe this movie in one word I would say not good.  If I were to use two words, I would say bad.  This movie has beautiful women and many sex scenes.  Still, it is a boring movie.  Tendentious, slow, and really nothing more than a silly little melodrama with explicit sex.  By the time a certain significant turning point occurred, I wasn't even moved, although if I had read about such an incident in a news story, it would have seemed like a real tragedy.  I would not waste my time. "},{"Title":"Twisting Twisting Garbage","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I've seen in the past year. The writing was absolutely horrific. If you believe this movie was even remotely entertaining than you may have been tricked by a talent less writer. The movie twisted and turned so much that I found myself carefully paying attention to every little detail only to realize that when the film ended absolutely nothing was accomplished. The writer twisted the order and events of the movie because he can't write. I imagine most viewers will be so overwhelmed by the ever changing events and they won't actually sit back to realize this film was a complete and total waste of time. This movie was so bad that even after watching XXX immediately before Sex and Lucia; it was still painful to witness.At least the porno bits in Sex and Lucia were entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Pompous melodrama","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Julio Medem's Vacas and Los amantes del círculo polar very much (I have not seen La ardilla roja but I've been told it's good), but this time I found his movie so ridiculously pretentious and boring that I could not believe my ears (because my eyes were more or less fascinated by the vistas.) Maybe if I were a foreign language spectator, I would not notice the actors' mumbling as I read the subtitles, but this film even needs subtitles for a Spanish-speaking person like me. The actors murmur, undress, suffer (and how!) and try to add coherence and credibility to the silly dialogues to no avail. "}{"Title":"Excessively Erotic, Confused Screenplay, But Also Very Intriguing","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Madrid of the present days, the waitress Lucia (Paz Vega) leaves her job and goes to her apartment to meet her mate Lorenzo (Tristian Ulloa), who seems to be very depressed. When she arrives, she receives bad news about Lorenzo from the police. She moves alone to an isolated island, where she meets a stranger and lodges in a pension where he is living for the last months. The story shifts to six years ago, when Lorenzo and a woman, without knowing even the name of each other, have a magnificent sexual intercourse. The woman gets pregnant, and her daughter is raised with out a father. Meanwhile, Lorenzo is a writer that lost his creation skills and one night meets Lucia in a restaurant. She confesses to him that she is in love with him and has been stalking him for a long time. They fall in love for each other and Lucia moves to his apartment. Later, Lorenzo is informed by his friend Pepe (Javier Cámara) that he has a daughter, and he meets her in a square, with her baby sitter. From this point on, Lorenzo mixes his reveries with reality.Lucia y el Sexo is a weird movie, with a style that resembles David Lynch. I am not sure whether this was the intention of the director Julio Medem, or whether his screenplay is indeed only confused. There are too much gratuitous sex scenes and exposure of genitals, inclusive of penises, and although Paz Vega is a delicious woman, I do not like this type of appellative exaggeration in a film. The story has good points, does not have clichés, and has many metaphoric scenes. I understand that the title of this movie mainly refer to periods of time, Lucia in the present days, sharing her life with Lorenzo, and Sex the consequences of his intercourse with an unknown woman six years ago. In the end, I found Lucia y el Sexo an excessively erotic film, with a confused screenplay, but also very intriguing. I intend to see this movie again in a near future and reevaluate it, trying to see if it becomes clearer after a second time. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Lucia e o Sexo (Lucia and the Sex) "},{"Title":"Director sacrifices character development for gratuitous sex (minor spoilers)","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two major problems with this movie. One is that a large amount of time is devoted to gratuitous sex scenes between Lucia and Lorenzo. Delightful as they may be, by the time Lucia is walking out on Lorenzo, there has been very little in the film to demonstrate that the bond between them is based on anything besides Lorenzo's acquiescence to Lucia's sexual aggressiveness. Lucia's initial contact with Lorenzo is the result of the fantasies she has about him based on his novel, which implies a delusional state of mind (not to mention her stalker behavior). I have nothing against on-screen sex nor against sexually aggressive women, but there was so little emotional connection between them established in the film that I had trouble buying that they had been together for six months, let alone several years. Besides, who keeps the same bad haircut for six years? Lorenzo, that's who.The other problem is the swarming mass of coincidence that brings all the players together on the island. The coincidences start early (Pepe's sister somehow knows the mother of Lorenzo's daughter) and Medem keeps piling them on until they're so thick it's ridiculous. It may be argued that this phenomenon is a result of the vague notion that the movie is about the intersection of reality and fiction, but that sounds to me more like a lame rationalization after the fact than a deliberately employed storytelling device. It feels self indulgent, even lazy from a writing standpoint.Okay, make that three major problems the assertion that the story has a hole where one can enter at the end and re-emerge in the middle and possibly change the outcome is bogus. If it is to be believed then most of the movie must be regarded as nothing more than a pessimistic fantasy played out in the head of a writer. Remember the infamous season of Dallas? Medem declared that he wanted to make this film more uplifting and optimistic than Lovers of the Arctic Circle. Could he only achieve this through the use of such an artificial deus ex machina? Medem seems to be going for magical realism, but he merely emulates its superficial qualities. A lot of sex, some washed-out photography, quirky characters and a bunch of unbelievable coincidences may add up to a hypnotic fable for some. For me it's all condiment and no entree.Medem is reputed to have rehearsed this thing for 5 months. In my opinion he should have either spent longer and come up with a more credible script, or he should have made the movie much more quickly. Some sense of spontaneity would have been welcome in this ponderous lack-of-character drama.  "},{"Title":"Not quite porn","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best known of Julio Medem's early films, 'The Red Squirrel', told a story that combined mystery and sexual attraction, but ultimately failed to deliver on its hugely promising premise; 'Sex and Lucia' has much in common with its predecessor. Medem has a lively, eclectic, but wildly uneconomical film-making style, starting with a simple tale but soon throwing extra characters, plots within the plot, flashbacks, fantasy sequences, and the use of unsubtly iconographic images into the mix. Aided by a quality score, the film is always interesting, but the overall effect is less of a well constructed movie and more of a film that can't resist going (both stylistically and plot-wise) in every possible direction that its writer/director has been able to think of, almost as if he'd tried several variations around his central theme and hasn't yet decided which he should leave on the cutting room floor. In consequence, an initially taut story gradually loses focus and is only pulled together through some pretty contrived co-incidences.As for the sex so prominently advertised in the film's title, it's not exactly pornographic but it certainly owes something to that genre. Disavowing other representations of sex that are common in the cinema (coy/allusive, dreamy/idealised, bruto-comic realist, etc.), 'Sex and Lucia' takes a very object-oriented approach this is a film about things, many of them uncommonly large, and the places where they go. There's a mechanical quality (X bares a buttock; Y sticks her nipple in Z's mouth, etc.) that personally I found rather wearisome. But perhaps that's just my taste. Anyway, it seems to be a style quite common in Spanish films, even those of the most mainstream variety.All told, there's less in here than the sum of its parts; but enough parts (in every sense) to raise this film about the mediocre, though hardly to the status of high art. "},{"Title":"started off get then nose dived","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first hour of the movie was very interesting--I was hooked, interesting, beautiful leading lady, not a lot of sex but got to see her naked which was worth the 3 bucks.  After she left him the movie started getting weird and intricated to the point of irriation, hence lost interest. Back and forth to the point where you use track of time and the correlation of characters as a whole.  LAME_O "},{"Title":"Artsy bordering on melodrama","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Extremely well directed film with superb performances by the three lead women that fails miserably. The film has no dramatic tension due to a lackluster male lead that generates no interest He is neither intellectual enough nor sexy enough. He projects no angst or even a healthy dash of true grit for the role he is required to play (young Antonio Banderas sorely missed here). It is difficult to see why three stunning women with great personalities are/were involved with him. The middle lags considerably, in particular the relationship between Lucia and Lorenzo that marches straight to a dead end, going nowhere other than circles. Towards the grand finale, a clever plot carries the day as the three stories converge. Sex is gorgeously photographed but plain, perhaps too caste in feeling, in fact most of it is boring,  possibly because of the lack in dramatic tension (very far from the heat accomplished by masters like Nicholas Roeg). The ending is perhaps one of the most thoroughly disappointing ones in Spanish cinema, a complete cop-out, turning a could-be classic mood piece into cheap melodrama that can be forgotten in a few hours.  Wait for the video release if you must see it.  "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow - so many comments for a foreign film! This film is not for everyone - like most foreign films - and by it's title, you can assume that there's a good chance that there's quite a bit of sexual content in it, so I'm not sure why anyone would criticize it for that.Anyway, this is by far one of the better films I've seen recently, and it's not really about sex, but about the relationship Lucia has with her boyfriend and the crisis he is going through. The story line is totally unpredictable, which is the beauty of it. If you liked Kieslowski's trilogy (Blue - white - red), you should like this film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sexy as can be","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With the recent release of Spanglish, the rest of America is going to find out about Paz Vega. I feel fortunate to have discovered her in Sex and Lucia, and she quickly became one of my favorite women to watch in the world. But enough about me.This was a great film. I loved it for its uninhibited sexuality, and superb acting. Despite my infatuation with Paz Vega, I clearly recognize that the movie's best acting performance comes from Tristan Ulloa, who beautifully plays Lorenzo. I found myself angry with him for most of the movie, but eventually he finds his way into your heart, mostly perhaps as a result of his interaction with Luna - especially in the bedtime story scene. I know, I know - the REALLY sexy scenes were played by Spanish porn actors. Big deal; Paz is still absolutely gorgeous, and don't think I am not in love with Najwa Nimri too!Again, enough about me.The sex is the overcoating of the movie, but the storyline and plot are great as well. Indeed, the first time I saw the movie, I was so distracted by the sex that I had to watch it a second time to clean up my interpretation mistakes so I completely understood the plot line. I wouldn't call it overwhelmingly complex, but it did take some thought. So if you watched this once and ended up scratching your head about a few things, try watching it again. "},{"Title":"Overlong","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A major disappointment from Medem, Sex and Lucia is an overlong and annoying art house film with a plot as flimsy as cappuccino froth. The film's penchant for magic realism clouds any coherent backstory, resulting in a jumbled and boring, self-indulgent dissertation on paternal guilt and the creative process. The photography resembles many a stylish advert for perfume and feels strained and self-consciously stylised to such a degree that it is hard to feel any connection to the convoluted story Medem presents. The actors do a fine job with the jumbled script and I am amazed they even knew what was going on but none of them elicits our sympathy. I was also annoyed by the simplistic symbolism of the sun and the moon which was overdone by Medem in many scenes. A little subtlety should have been employed with these symbols. Another unconvincing theme was the contention that literature and reality are somehow interchangeable, to the point where reality can somehow be rewritten to relive guilt and tragedy. I'm baffled why the film was called Sex and Lucia since the real theme is Writing and Death; and Lucia herself is not really the creative force of the film. The story takes you in one direction only to abandon any sense of logic in the name of writing and creativity. "},{"Title":"Sex and the Story","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Your typical foreign movie that attracts its audience with sex, sex, and more sex. Don't get me wrong, this is a great story with a terrific cast and with well done direction. Still, without the sex, does this movie have an audience? The box cover for the movie as well as the title to the movie screams to its audience what it is most likely to offer. SEX! SEX! SEX! Still, while most French, Italian and Spanish foreign films that make their way onto the American video shelves are packed with sex but with very little story. Here, the movie has both. If you watch closely, you can see the two part story. Part 1 is SEX while Part 2 is Lucia. Hence, the reason for the title. "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing, I'm afraid...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three of us saw this film together  my Spanish wife, an American girlfriend of hers who teaches Spanish, and I. (We have all lived in Spain).  None of us liked it. I thought it fell into the traps that characterize much of contemporary Spanish film  it was too 'artsy', the amorality seem self-conscious and posed, the music frequently was inappropriate to the scenes, and the plot was too convoluted by half.  The sex was uninspiring (frequently depressing!) and very somber (i.e. very Spanish).  The subtitles were usually ok, but some of the translations were a bit forced (I've seen worse but I've seen better).  The film was overlong. Since the overall impact was to depress one, the time passed slowly. The overall effect was Fellini updated for the 21st century, but by an inferior talent trying to work outside of his limits. If you want to see a better film, I recommend Amenabar's 'Abre Los Ojos'.  "}{"Title":"Pathetic and un-erotic","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I would like to say that I agree with jotix100 (see below) that aesthetically (and, perhaps I should add, intellectually) this film has a lot in common with Playboy. However, the last time I looked, pornography - and Playboy, as far as I'm concerned, has nothing what so ever to do with pornography - sure was a lot more interesting than Lucia y el sexo, and a lot less pretentious as well. In short, if this is pornography, then I have to say that pornography has become sadly unprovocative. I'm employed as a film critic, so I had no choice but to watch Medem's film. But I would have preferred watching a Jenna Jameson flick any day. Or a Godard for that matter.  "},{"Title":"the newspaper critic was right","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film despite awful reviews from some dutch newspapers. What a waste of time, this film is so boring I walked out after an hour. The director seems to think overlighting equals interesting filmmaking. It doesn't and to make things worse he tries to go back and forth in time, again thinking this would make for some interesting film. Again he's mistaken. He only manages to confuse and bore his viewers to death.Better to go see Y tu mama tambien, a much better film.  "},{"Title":"A very bad movie!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julio Medem could be to work at a doctor, if it's possible he could be better professional, because as a filmmaker is very poor. I can't understand this people who vote this film as a good movie. The actresses have had a bad job, they like amateurs players, not the professionals.The sound is horrible, there are some dialogs, that I couldn't understand anything. I think, that this film, abuse the sex scenes to attract the spectators and there are almost always unnecessary. An other abuses are the burned photography in the scenes at the island. Why they meaning?, it is abusive at all. When I read the summary, of that film, in the DVD, it explain that this film is about Lucia discovery of her own past, and that it isn't true, in any case it would be about her boyfriend. In fact, I don't like this film, it is boring and bad make. "},{"Title":"emotionally void","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" -some weird plot turns, which isn't necessarily bad.-lengthy and frequent erotic scenes. again not necessarily bad, but not particularly interesting either. 2nd half of the movie is better.-it feels a bit 'artsy'. there's no depth in the characters, and a lot of scenes feel like they're just meant to capture well on camera. you wonder if they actually mean anything. (pretty sure they don't). I can enjoy artsy scenes, but too much is too much.-acting had it's ups and downs. some scenes were good, some really weren't.I gave it a 5 "},{"Title":"Sex yes, but not sexy","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a talented narrated story and after two hours you have all the threads in your hands. It's a complicated story also, about great feelings with big pretentions. But still you never really get involved. You don't care like you're supposed to. The sex scenes, sometimes including short X-rated sequences, are obviously meant to be sensational. There are however probably body stand-ins in some of them. If anyone is interested.Feelings, rather real people, sorrow and joy. Yes you find it here, but is there life too? I'm not sure.      "},{"Title":"Lucía And A Series Of Incredible Coincidences.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sex and Lucía (or Lucía Y El Sexo) was an interesting, though confusing, story about a man, a one night stand on a beach 6 years ago, and his current girlfriend. I'm not really into foreign films, but I find myself seeing more and more of them lately. The story starts as Lucía (Paz Vega) comes home to find her boyfriend, Lorenzo (Tristán Ulloa), missing and possibly dead, due to what seems like a suicide note left for her to find. From here, the movie goes back 6 years to show the one night stand on a beautiful moonlit beach with Elena (Najwa Nimri). They agree that it is best they do not even know each other's names but each have a few clues about the other. This is where the story really seems to begin.As Lucía, Paz Vega plays a memorable role as the infatuated/somewhat stalker fan of Lorenzo, the writer of a book she feels is speaking to her personally. Even through the language barrier, I can practically understand Paz. I give credit to her acting skills- far better than Salma Hayek and just as beautiful, if not, more so. I can only hope she learns more English and can take more roles here in the U.S.The rest of the cast does a great job as well. Usually, I reserve judgment on the acting in a foreign film because it is hard to put the subtitles along with the faces, etc., but I can tell this one was acted very well. Along with Paz, credit is due to Tristán Ulloa and Elena Anaya (of Van Helsing fame here in the U.S.).I would give this movie a higher ranking, but I have to admit, I was a bit more than confused half the time and not able to differentiate the line between reality and fiction (in the movie). It is definitely going to take a second viewing to understand more thoroughly and, usually, those turn out to be the best stories. Another thing working against it, however, is the incredible coincidences needed to make this story what it is. I realize it is just a movie and a coincidence is very common in movies, but these were huge coincidences. Nothing to turn me off of the movie, but just something that nagged at me a little. See it to educate yourself on Paz Vega if nothing else, soon to be a much bigger star here. 7/10 "},{"Title":"There are too many sex scenes in it that don't contribute to the story","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucía y el sexo or Sex and Lucía isn't the best example of Spanish cinema. Even though I haven't got any problems with movies that try to be modern fairy tales (for instance Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulin) or which have a more philosophical touch (for instance Los amantes del círculo polar), I wasn't really impressed by this one. I couldn't help thinking that this movie was more a porn movie with a huge budget and a more philosophical approach than average. I don't have any problem with sex in a movie, but this time it was a bit too much for me. I haven't timed it, but I guess that I'm not really exaggerating if I say that 30 to 40 % of the movie was made up by gratuitous sex scenes.The movie brings us the story of Lucía and Lorenzo. Lorenzo is a novelist who had a sexual encounter in the past that has a catastrophic effect on his life. Lucía is a woman that is deeply in love with him since she has read his book. She's some kind of stalker but apparently he doesn't feel it that way and he starts a (sexual) relationship with her.Even though the performances of the actors are very good, the movie isn't always as convincing. The ideas of the movie didn't bother me. The fact that a man had a one-night stand and now has to face some consequences is OK. The fact that he's a writer and that he gets his inspiration out of many different impressions and events is very understandable. But I'm sure that the movie's message would have been a lot more powerful if the director had cut a lot of the sex scenes out of it. I now give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"A earnest misfire somewhere between prose and the paranormal","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sex and Lucia is a subtitled drama out of Spain which swirls around a head-to-toe scrumptious Vega as it wends its way circuitously through its convoluted plot. Unfortunately the story can't reach out and grab the audience in spite of fine performances and good everything else because the emphasis is not on the players but on the diddled up storyline which is about as interesting as a mobius strip. In short, the film messes with the time domain which is more confounding than engrossing, more novel than substantive, and, after a 2+ hour run, wears out more than wraps up. An honest, sincere misfire, this flick will be of most interest to those into Eurodramas with tastefully done sex, nudity, and French angst. (B-) "},{"Title":"Very mediocre despite sex and nudity","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you take out the sex and nudity in this film what exactly do you have left? A very mediocre story of a writer who takes his work to an unhealthy level and his girlfriend who tries to cope. It's well acted and extremely well photographed but the story really is not that interesting. No wonder they put in so much sex and nudity. "},{"Title":"Sex according to Julio Medem","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Has anyone picked up the trend of Spanish film directors? When they don't have anything better to say, or to present anything worthwhile, they resort to showing sex, preferably, female genitalia, or even male apparatuses, to distract the naive viewer into believing they are watching something artistic.Well, not so. Ethel, a friend who lives in Madrid, and avoids the Spanish cinema like the plague, told me in two words what she believed this film to be about CHEAP PORNO!Never were there more clever words spoken! Julio Medem, might be an intellectual in Spain, but he certainly cannot cut the mustard, as demonstrated by his previous output Los amantes del circulo polar and Vacas.... Only in Spain, or in Europe, for that matter would anyone invest money into these disasters that pass as art films there as well as here.In the first place, the sex in the film is completely gratuitous and in your face. Paz Vega is an attractive woman, who no doubt will do better than in this movie. Frankly, I have no objection to have Paz Vega showing her charms all the time but the same should be expected of Tristan Ulloa! So, if the director wants to reveal to us all what Ms. Vega has to offer, how about getting equal time and give everyone a view of what Mr. Ulloa has in store? If we are going to be fair, then, let it all hang out! The new Spanish Cinema isn't afraid to bare all to the world, but they don't have a clue what they're showing. Let's hope Mr. Medem talents will help him land a job as the director of the local Playboy, where he could really show it all without subjecting us to trash like this. The afternoon session I attended had a Viagra crowd. At the end, I overheard one man tell another Great Film, I've seen it about 10 times already!... "}]