[{"Title":"A Voyeur's Delight","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party provides you with the perfect opportunity to watch the kind of party you'd want to be invited to, but not necessarily attend.This was a great film with numerous funny, dramatic, awkward, and stressful moments.  It embraced many universal points of conflict in relationships--be it with a spouse, a neighbor, a boss, a co-worker--and allowed you, as a viewer, to watch all of the varying (and often hilarious) perspectives.  And then it showed you all of those same perspectives on ecstasy.The film maintains a large cast of talented people and uses them well.  I found myself doubled over in laughter for at least half of the movie--Alan Uppin Cumming, Gwyneth Paltrow, Jane Adams, Parker Posey, John Benjamin Hickey, John C. Reilly, Michael Panes, and the entire Cates-Kline family gave a lot of comedy to their characters, complimenting the difficult and trying moments that were weaved throughout the film.  It was shocking to see the number of negative reviews in this index.  I think if you are between the ages of 25-49, it would be hard not to relate to the social satire that is portrayed brilliantly in this film.  It is thoroughly enjoyable.**** "},{"Title":"Best of its kind film ever made.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like a slow, carefully developed, beautifully acted, funny and articulate piece of parlor theater, complete with a heart-wrenching scene or three demonstrating alienation between neighbors and genuine intimacy among friends, this is for you.  If not, not.  With its two deaths or near-deaths, this is more than talk, but still if pure conversation strikes you as self-indulgent or tedious, rather than (in this singular case) genius, why not pass? "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh and the aging circle","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can understand how many will find THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY an indulgent, sneering little movie lacking in focus and ultimate catharsis; but I enjoyed it, quite a bit actually, if only to see some of Hollywood's finest talent freeing themselves from the studios for the intimacy of a digital shoot.  I admired Party for being bold, clever, funny, cutting and occasionally brilliant.  The ending felt a bit forced at first (the off screen family death as catalyst for conclusion was used to better effect in TWO GIRLS AND A GUY - another actor-driven digital indie), but ultimately it fit for Sally and Joe to end where they began, Narcissist and Echo.Other comments have provided good synopses; I won't elaborate save for one obvious theme so far missed, that of chasing lost youth.  It's quite depressing really, for at this party, Generation X officially goes over the hill.  All my life I've been vaguely annoyed at self-obsessed Baby Boomer flicks like The Big Chill and The Ice Storm that seemed to congratulate an entire generation for being so damn dysfunctional.  Well (*sigh*), now such movies will be made about my generation, here defined as neither willing nor ready to grow up.  Gwyneth as Skye @#*%ing Davidson has the one thing all else at the party have lost, and the little pills she brings offers a last, desperate attempt to participate in her youth culture (ages 8-29 need only apply).  Klein's presence (an obvious reference to the Big C) suggests that some Boomers are still chasing that lost youth.  Meanwhile, Gen-X is just getting started.So much for Ecstasy. "},{"Title":"It's Party Time, Hollywood Style","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film pulls back the curtain to reveal a glimpse of what `celebrity' means when the cameras aren't rolling and the stage is dark.  What begins as a celebration of sorts becomes a character study that examines the lifestyle of the self-absorbed and those driven by ego, and we get to see the people behind the `fame.'  And while on one hand `The Anniversary Party,' written and directed by Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh, appears at first to be the kind of party you could find at anyone's house at any time in any place, subtle differences begin to surface that separates it from what could be considered the `norm.'  Because beyond certain corporate similarities, the entertainment industry is quite unlike any other, and that goes especially for the people who inhabit it.  Sure, actors, writers, directors, etc. are people, just like anyone else, but their particular perceptions and priorities necessarily shift them into a unique position within the landscape of the human condition, wherein they exist amongst their own and for the most part play the game by their own rules.  This is a generalization, of course; not every actor or artist lives in the style depicted in this film, but many do.  In the final analysis, Hollywood is not called `La-La Land' for no reason, and Cumming and Leigh know it.  Welcome to a world in which anything is acceptable, anything goes, and usually does.Writer/director Joe Therrian (Cumming) and actress Sally Nash (Leigh) have prepared a party to celebrate their six years together; not that they have actually been `together' the entire time, but according to the actor/artist math, it's close enough.  Close friends and associates have been invited to share whatever this is with them, as well as a couple of neighbors, Monica and Ryan Rose (Mina Badie, Denis O'Hare), who have certain `issues' with Joe and Sally.  And, much to the chagrin of the `aging' Sally, whose career seems to be on the wane, Joe has invited the hot young up-and-comer in town, Skye Davidson (Gwyneth Paltrow) to the party.  As the evening wears on into the early morning hours, true feelings are gradually revealed amid a game of charades (rather, a `production' of charades; these people are forever `on'), as well as the sharing of a certain `product' given as a present to Joe and Sally by Skye.  And so, what began as a celebration, in the cold, hard light of morning just may be remembered as something entirely different.  Welcome to the wonderful world of show biz.The daughter of actor Vic Morrow, Jennifer Jason Leigh was born into the business, so to speak; Alan Cumming, on the other hand will have to come up with his own excuse.  But they have collaborated (perhaps `conspired' would be more accurate) to bring to the screen an interesting, thought provoking story that for all intents and purposes seems, at least, as if it could be a composite of actual experiences and people they have known.  Which means they've succeeded in delivering a film that has the decided flavor of reality about it, and for the most part it's extremely engaging, and often riveting drama.  it may be a film that many will have trouble connecting with, though, if only because it is bound to fall outside the realm of personal experience for them.  Most of the issues in this story are simply unfamiliar territory to the greater part of the world's population, with the exception of those dealing with the more universal themes, like the appreciation of a child's song, or the irritation of the perpetual barking of a neighbor's dog.What really sells the project, though, and maintains interest, is the excellent ensemble cast the filmmakers have assembled here, portraying an inordinate number of characters driven by look-at-me! egos, yet each presented within their own unique perspectives and contexts.  At the center of the fray, of course, is Cumming and Leigh, each of whom do a solid job of anchoring the myriad situations and scenarios generated through, by and around them.  Leigh successfully conveys a sense of insecurity consistent with Sally's current status, and Cumming does a good job of making Joe quite unlikable, affecting as he does the look, attitude and personality born of an overblown and bloated ego.  it's a portrayal that effectively points up the absolute boorishness that can be found within this community.Paltrow, meanwhile, perfectly captures the essence of the shallow and relatively clueless ingenue, the vast majority of whom become a flavor of the week before disappearing into the obscurity of Hollywood's human `outbox.'  While Phoebe Cates, as former actress Sophia Gold, represents the opposite end of the spectrum, a young woman perfectly content with her current role of wife and mother.  And Kevin Kline is convincing as her husband, actor Cal Gold, who though successful is still visited with insecurities and doubt; and his performance is one of the highlights of the film.Also turning in performances that stand out from the rest are Mina Badie (Leigh's real life half-sister) as the neighbor who comes to the party offering conciliatory overtures toward a more `neighborly' relationship; John C. Reilly, as Mac Forsyth, a veteran director struggling with his latest project (the star of which just happens to be Sally Nash); and Peter Sellers look alike Michael Panes, as Sally's talented friend, Levi.Rounding out the exceptional cast are Jane Adams (Clair), John Benjamin Hickey (Jerry), Parker Posey (Judy), Jennifer Beals (Gina), Matt Malloy (Sanford) and Owen Kline and Greta Kline (Kevin and Phoebe's real life children, as Jack and Evie Gold).  A film that is more interesting than entertaining, `The Anniversary Party' nevertheless offers the viewer a chance to vicariously explore and experience Tinsel Town from the dark side of the curtain; some will find it exciting, while others will deem it decidedly unglamorous.  Either way, Cumming and Leigh are to be commended for making it `real.'  It's the magic of the movies.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but brilliant moments make it unforgettable","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful ensemble piece starring many fine actors, The Anniversary Party delves deep into the ties that bind us together. But the second act is an unflinching look at how we tear ourselves apart. While it has some flaws, I found it hit its marks more often than not. The Altmanesque flow of the movie was almost pitch perfect and never got in the way of the story. There is tension between almost all of the principles and it is often the cover-your-eyes-but-look-through-your-fingers type. I found most of the relationships to be as flawed and messy as the real ones (mine at least). Sure, there's an extraneous scene or two (the near drowning scene comes immediately to mind) and they don't set up the ending that well, but I was happy to forgive the warts to get a close look at compelling relationships. "},{"Title":"Begins with simple fun, ends with a Viet Nam of emotion.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely not what I was expecting from reading the box at the video store. Forget any reviews or anything you hear about this movie.  Walking into it with expectations would have ruined it for me.The movie is well directed and cast (despite the fact that many of the actors are related - this is a happy surprise when the credits roll). The premise is that a separated celebrity couple gets back together for their sixth wedding anniversary, much to the happiness of (most of) their friends and colleagues, and begin to plan a family and a move to England from Hollywood.Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming make a credible couple on the verge of stardom or has-been-dom, depending on what takes place in the coming year; relocating to England to have a baby or having Sally act the part in Joe's new movie.  It becomes clear near the end that the desires of each aren't what was expected in the beginning of the film.The only disappointment was Kevin Kline's character.  This role was the least interesting of the group; he efforts a semi-believable, cynical hollywood type who holds genuine affection for his children.  I just didn't feel anything for him, although Kline shines as would be expected.  Small quibble.Phoebe Cates plays the most believable character, Sally's best (female) friend, and makes you wonder where she's been lately.  She comes terribly close to stealing the show by nailing her role with Oscar-quality acting and frightening emotion.  We all have, or deserve, a friend like Sophia.The other surprise star is Mina Badie, who evolves from the apprehensive and abrasive neighbor to untethered, libertine by the conclusion.  I'm not sure why she doesn't want more acting roles.There was a tad too much nudity in the pool scene (although it is explainable), but aside from that, I would recommend this to anyone whose pre-child relationship is not currently on the rocks. "},{"Title":"Wonderful ensemble improvisational acting, and a digital video Hollywood landmark production.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cloying at times but very compelling and all-but-unpredictable, 'Anniversary' surprises with its power and brutal candor, especially when one tries to discern the autobiographical truths. Saw it last at Disney company screening in NYC when I had no idea what I was about to see or who had created it. Amazed at end to discover in credits that co-stars Cumming and Leigh had written and directed the film.Was especially struck by the performances of Jennifer Beals--whom I did not recognize--and Phoebe Cates, whose brilliance in one climactic scene w/ Leigh is startling. Impressed at heavyweights in cast like Kline, Paltrow and Cumming. Delighted to see John C. Reilly again (but where was buddy Philip Seymour Hoffman?)  Newcomer Mina Badie was the most striking rookie in cast (but one whose name, phonetically, rivals that of Snidely Whiplash.)The technical miracle here came when I realized--only after screening and upon reading production notes--that the film was actually shot on digital video. I defy any non-pro viewer to recognize the difference. The success of the remarkably soft film-like cinematography here by veteran John Bailey may accelerate Hollywood's embrace of much cheaper, quicker video production. It's unintrusive effect is dazzling here.Biggest flaw here is lack of substantial story and reliance on lengthy Ecstacy scene and theme. The politically incorrect happy-drug message here will hurt the movie with mainstream critics. This despite fact that plot does eventually include a moralistic, anti-drug hard-drug lesson in its somewhat predictable conclusion. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best I've ever seen. Deep, succinct, funny, sweet, true. I love ensemble movies - or, maybe what I should say is that I love movies where every actor can act, and is given that opportunity by the director and the script. This was gorgeous. Think I'll write to the directors to thank them for their smarts and humor. "},{"Title":"The Party has unfortunately attracted a number of Party-haters to it who just don't get it.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are reading these comments, then you may be looking for some insight before you rent this movie or after you had just seen it.  Most of the unfavorable comments arise from the perspective of Ryan Rose, played by Denis O'Hare, the neighbor or outsider of the Hollywood business and the audience of the movie.  The entire movie shot in digital video (DV), is like this loud barking dog, represented by critics acclaiming the movie as one of the years' best, and the audience just can't stand it.  They want to just kill the dog (see How to Kill Your Neighbor's Dog) and go on to the next movie.Well, if you feel that way, so be it.I think this movie is a real gem.  If you're looking for a real plot--you won't find much here, except some surprising character revelations.  This film is shot in a dogma-magnolia-tenebaums style where the moments and emotions fuel the movie rather than a specific character transformation from point A to point B.  It's a comedy, where the actors' and directors' intent is to poke fun in their own lives and world.  If you're looking for sympathetic characters with no flaws--you won't find any here, except maybe the neighbors who are the outsiders.  Then again, these characters were not made to be sympathetic, but for you to take them as who they are.The film starts out very slowly, like the preparation of any party.  While the leads do not take any part in the actual preparation, a glimpse into their lives are seen.  The camera and directing moves around like a voyeur into different rooms and conversations when the partygoers arrive.  The directing style is very close and personal, intimate and claustrophobic at times, but raw and real.Real and as real as it can ever get in Hollywood.  For example, two couples are played by actors who are married to each other in real life (Kline and Cates, the Golds; and Hickey and Posey, the Adams).  Kline and Cates' real life children also participate in some very, very adorable scenes which may lend to their future acting careers.  The photographs on the wall were taken by Jennifer Beals, who has photographed the couple a lot in preproduction--though you can't see them up close.  Otis is Jennifer Jason Leigh's dog outside of this film and in this film.  Even the yoga instructor and props are part of Leigh's life.  Cumming and Leigh wrote the scripts with these SPECIFIC actors and actresses in mind, thus giving them mannerisms they actually do on film and also, not on camera.  There is this portion in the film where the guests came up with toasts, celebrating Cumming and Leigh's anniversary.  However, these toasts were not scripted but improvised or written by the characters themselves to surprise Cumming and Leigh.  The toasts themselves were very creative and yet within their characters.  Cumming even signs his own book in real life, called Tommy's Toy, for a neighbor.  Cumming claims in the DVD that he will finish that book sometime this year.Yeah, whatever.Sure, all this seems very self-important, indulgent, stereotypical Hollywood glamour, but I haven't seen any authentic casting like this in any other movie.  Even though, they are all actors playing actors who are close friends in real life, it is an effortless and authentic kind of feeling you get when you watch them interact with each other. If you didn't know that beforehand, then maybe you won't be able to tell the difference.I enjoyed this one scene when they were playing Charades.  I guess actors take this game seriously, because in a way, it is their craft, so they pick these obscure titles from novels, songs, or whatever for the other team to guess.  But in one scene, Jerry Adams, the business man plays by Hickey, goes absolutely ballistic and overly competitive.  Like a whining critic cursing at a bad movie for cheating him out of his money and time, he hilariously verbally jumps on his own teammates for not going on to the next syllable or not getting the point.  Don't you know someone like that when you are playing this friendly board game or party game?*Possible spoiler ahead.There is no real plot, but two points the movie attempts to get across. First of all, everyone is flawed--the dialogue scathingly points out the scratches on every character.  These flaws are mainly demonstrated in the Hollywood perspective of deciding to have a child.  Second, the choice of having a career versus having a child and family is the centerpiece of this film.  The issue is brought out in the interactions between Jane Adams (child but still working and stressed), Cates (two children, not working and happy?) and Leigh (working, but going downhill, but her husband wants a child).   This depends on the maturity of the characters--(i.e. whether or not they are still thinking they are 10 years younger than they really are) and the flaw in Leigh's character not willing to give up her career and her desire to play some role she can no longer play.  Though it also seems Leigh's character's personal life (in the film) is affecting her acting career in her latest project, it is an introspective look on the choices we make in our personal lives in terms of drawing a line between the workplace and home.  If the line becomes blurry or it doesn't exist in this glass house they live in, then, how would you cope with it if you were in their shoes?  Are their shoes any different form ours?The ending seems somewhat forced and abrupt, but overall, for a 19 day shoot, I guess they did the best with what they had.  7/10.  I was pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Kline Max","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Another film about film. Actors playing actors. It is worth watching if you have followed the careers of these two. Because they are earnest but not particularly intelligent, what we have are notions from the better projects they've been involved in.Ms. Leigh has been in some important ones strong directors with vision the Coens, Altman, Cronenberg. A dogma film. She's got some interesting experience, and brings it all to bear here, but not always in the most apt fashion.Cumming has a more narrow career -- playing the deranged, rather an easier thing. And he has less scope than Jennifer. But rather than run from it, he uses it. If you've been through his `Titus,' you'll appreciate his references better.This is an actors' project. So other than the writers' influence, the only matter of interest is how rich they are. The Kline family so towers over the others it is remarkable. The whole family. Even Phoebe transfixes, relying on his steady influence.  "}{"Title":"I saw this movie advertised in France before it opened in the US.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess that every once in a while, there has to be a movie about people's relationships about to blow up in everyone's faces - especially if it's about Hollywood. The Anniversary Party is one such movie. It has Joe Therrian (Alan Cummings) and Sally Nash (Jennifer Jason Leigh) throwing a party in their Hollywood Hills house and inviting various friends. As the party continues, it begins more and more to look like everything is about to collapse.This was an okay, if routine, flick. The aspect that really stands out (for me at least) is that real-life couple Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates co-star with their real-life son and daughter. Other cast members include John C. Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Parker Posey. Nothing significant in cinema history, but acceptable. "},{"Title":"If you like Robert Altman films...","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like Robert Altman films, you should take a look at this film. It's much like an Altman film, with its use of naturalistic dialogue, subtle humor, and a wide spectrum of characters which feel like real people, in simple, believable situations. But it's tidier than an Altman film. It still could use a little trimming, I think, but in general it doesn't have as many rough edges as a film like A Wedding.Here's an excerpt from Roger Ebert's review, which could very well be a comment about an Altman movie The appeal of the film is largely voyeuristic. We learn nothing we don't already more or less know, but the material is covered with such authenticity and unforced natural conviction that it plays like a privileged glimpse into the sad lives of the rich and famous. We're like the neighbors who are invited. Leigh and Cumming co-wrote and co-directed, and are confident professionals who don't indulge their material or themselves. This isn't a confessional home movie, but a cool and intelligent look at a lifestyle where smart people are required to lead their lives according to dumb rules. "},{"Title":"no. not as good as The Big Chill...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but well worth seeing. The digital camerawork was very well done, suggesting there is a future for this technology. The film's style seems to depend on Robert Altman's Seventies' films (Three Women, A Wedding, Nashville), where plot elements are treated with more or less equal weight.The pluses Jennifer Jason Leigh comes into her own as an actress. The affectations that made me walk out of Mrs. Parker and Georgia are gone, she's just concerned with telling the story here. Kevin Kline, Jennifer Beals and Gwyneth Paltrow are all wonderful, especially Beals, whom I feared was condemned to made-for-TV hell. Alan Cumming seems to struggle with his role; I just didn't see him possessing the gravitas to be an esteemed novelist chosen to direct a film, but he is always interesting to watch.The minuses those awful friends and neighbours. Whining, back-biting, jealous, passive-agressive, tiresome people--the Adamses, Forsyths and Roses. Were they inserted into the movie because independent productions need a lot of color or just because they're friends of the filmmakers? I hope I never see Jane Adams play a more cartoonish, over-the-top character as Claire Forsyth. I could understand her husband trying to drown in the pool after living with her.The self-referential nature of the story is irksome. Hollywood's problems concern only those who work there, not us. If that Julia Roberts vehicle, Notting Hill, told us far more than we wanted to know about the perils of stardom, Cumming and Leigh have not learned the lesson, even though their film breathes some fresher and more passionate air. "},{"Title":"Art, after a fashion","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In our household, we use a pretty basic definition for art. If it (dance, painting, sculpture, performance) causes you, the audience, to feel the emotion that the artist wants you to feel, then it's art.By that definition, this movie is art - though I can't say that it's what the writer/director/producer team was trying for.Okay - I've been a Jennifer Jason Leigh fan for a couple of decades now. That she was one of the forces behind this film made my decision to rent it easy. As always, her performance as actress here is relentlessly professional - she knows her job, and does it well.The script is - well, questionable. Written by the central characters for themselves and their friends, filmed by (apparently) a circle of friends, about lives in the movie industry. As Heinlein said, There's no shame in writing, but do it in private and wash your hands afterward. This is either masturbatory or self-revelatory, and it's not easy for this audience to know which. That's okay - it was an interesting evening's viewing, and it'll find its way into my personal collection sometime soon.The acting is flawless - no clunkers, no false notes, and some points of excellence. JJL was, in particular, good at showing a side I'd have thought she'd be afraid to face - the aging has-been. Many of the company I'd not seen before - but everyone, down to America, the maid, shows their characters beautifully.I don't really know if this movie was supposed to show the insiders' view of life in the movie industry, or a parody of that life - but it's an engaging story. It could have used a bit more sparkle, and perhaps a bit less pathos in one evening - but it did ring true throughout.Folks either like this or loathe it - I suggest that you watch it yourself and see what camp you land in. My daughter was a tad surprised to find how much she enjoyed it.(Daughter, 14, sez Very odd. It shows movie stars, writers, and important people - being just like normal human beings are.) "},{"Title":"Yes. No. Maybe-So.","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a whole the movie was well made. However, I never have been, am not, and never will be a fan of Jennifer Jason Leigh. I'll avoid ranting about her though, and instead turn to the good points of the movie. Co-written, co-produced, and co-directed with Alan Cumming, The Anniversary Party has very nice technical merit. The storyline as a whole is the only significant problem I have with the movie. It is (more or less) the events that take place during an anniversary party consisting of important people of the entertainment world. Of course this variation of people does lead to a get-together that deviates from what one would expect from the average party. Nevertheless, an anniversary party is still just that, meaning charades and sing-a-longs are only amusing for however long one can tolerate them. I wouldn't recommend this movie to those who watch a movie for the story aspect (as many do). Instead, I'd recommend it to those who can recognize the artistic potential non-blockbuster have to offer. "},{"Title":"Contemporary, great acting, and a little too dramatic","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like two of the actresses very much so I might be biased.  Jennifer Jason Leigh and Parker Posey are two of my favorites.  Plus Parker had some topless moments.  So that aside I will say this movie is worth watching if you don't mind an over done LA type of drama.  It was well acted but the story line is very much been there done that type of theme. And I think there are times when the movies drags and doesn't flow as well as it could.  If you are not too bored with this LA type of drama then it might be worth watching.  If you like Parker Posey and Jennifer Jason Leigh as much as I do then it is a must see. "},{"Title":"When The party met The Big Chill","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very good! And powerful! Brilliant cast and strong screenplay as  we need!  When The party met The Big Chill! Thanks Alan and thanks Jennifer for your work and your courage. P.S. I'm screenwriter and film director and I think that The Anniversary Party is one one the best picture I saw in months. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The wave of the future is sure to be digital video, and The Anniversary Party is riding high on its crest.  Certainly, the night- long -dinner- party- with- the- camera- running film may one day be a cliche, especially with the low cost and filmmaking ease of digital film, but at this point it's a fresh idea, and one that keeps viewer quite entertained.  The acting is superb--it doesn't begin to look improvised as one might expect from this format, and even the drug scenes are not over the top.  My one hesitation lay in watching a group of 30-somethings experiment with a drug that is usually reserved for a high school/college crowd as though this was a sort of routine practice--but I guess that part of what the movie attempted to impart was a sense of the in some ways isolated world of the movie star with private maids, caterers, yoga instructors and designers.  Definitely not a film to miss out on, especially since it's a glimpse of where filmmaking may go, with the availability of longer takes, and the chance to select each shot from a variety of takes once the cost of film is so reduced. "},{"Title":"I've seen better home movies","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen better home movies, and I'm not sure how this qualifies as anything but that. It looked and felt like a self-indulgent, narcissistic and (the worst movie sin of all) boring home movie about folks I don't know and don't care to meet. It seemed a complete vanity piece, with me as the unwitting audience.This movie reminded me of the incredibly silly drama that teenagers find important when they're out too late and lacking parental supervision. The content of the characters in the film was immature, unpleasant and unattractive.I was tempted to turn it off numerous times, but waited until the end in case the redemption I was seeking was finally offered. It wasn't. "},{"Title":"The Real World for rich and famous actors","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't impressed with this film, I expected more from Jennifer Jason Leigh who is one of my all time favorites. First of all she has Alan Cummings as her husband. Yes, he's supposed to be married. To a woman. This is the central relationship, and it doesn't hold up because it's just not believable. I enjoyed the calvacade of stars (Kevin Kline, Jennifer Beals, Gwenneth Paltrow, Parker Posey) all stopping by, but it all didn't add up to much I'm afraid. It's also very very long and filmed in kind of an odd way. As the reviewer in Film Comment said, every impulse is masturbatory. The film wants to satirize the sense of entitlement that disfigures its 'characters,' but that's precisely the state of mind that got the film made in the first place. All that, and not much of a plot too. It all felt very indulgent and too long.  "}{"Title":"Torture","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not sure I can conjure the words to describe how abhorrently bad this film was.I feel like filing a civil case against the producers for pain and suffering. Even though I was it months ago, I cannot rest until I get this out of my system. I can never look at Alan Cummings (a great actor) the same way again...The only reason I can see that people would rate it highly is that (1) they live in the same LA/NY industry crowd and/or (2) they know someone affiliated with the production.I don't mind that there was really no plot and a great deal of ad hoc; many good films today explore alternate styles and succeed. But this was essentially a professionally edited LA home movie. Sitting through the entire thing was akin to your uncle holding you captive to his Paris vacation video.You develop no sympathy for any of the self-absorbed film industry characters, except maybe the otherwise normal neighbors who complain about the dog. If, as many people comment, this was a true insight and satiric look at the LA crowd, then I am ashamed to be a part of the same nation as they. A culture of people whose lives revolve around how many names they can drop, how many awards they win, how much money they make, how cleverly they can backstab everyone around them, and how many pictures of themselves they have in their richly decorated homes. Ugh.The precious speeches given at the party (with deeply meaningful gifts) were the worst torture. You come to despise the main characters and then need to sit through a celebration of their love for each other? I kept thinking...this has to end soon, and then like a bad business seminar where you pray for a coffee break, another awful speech would ensue.And don't get me started on the mid-film tragedy that unfolds. Dear God, why did we need that on top of everything else. A vehicle for the actors to show how great they are by displaying the full range of their talents? Pass the Prozac.Anything redeeming? Yes 2 things. (1) the actors truly must be talented to evoke such a strong reaction, I will give you that, and (2) if you see this and it reminds you of your life and your friends, use it as a barometer to indicate the desperate need for immediate changes.   "},{"Title":"Deceptive, Pretentious and Boring Apology to Ecstasy","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While celebrating their reconciliation and six years of marriage, the American actress Sally Nash (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and the British novelist Joe Therrian (Alan Cumming) receive their close friends, some colleagues and their next door neighbors in a party. Under the effect of Ecstasy, revelations are disclosed and relationships deteriorate among the group.The Anniversary Party is a deceptive, pretentious and boring apology to Ecstasy. One of the best and first movies about reunion of friends that I recall is the wonderful Peter's Friends. Since then, I have watched dozens of this type of independent low-budget movie, and The Anniversary Party is certainly one of the worst. The story begins without any previous development of any of the many characters, and the viewer understands how they are connected to each other along the story. However, the story goes nowhere, and the ambiguous lead character Joe Therrian is not clearly defined he seems to be a shallow bisexual selfish man, without giving attention to his wife, to his needy sister, to his muse, to his neighbor, and only caring to his dog. The other lead character, Sally Nash, seems to be a decadent insecure confused actress. With two unpleasant people hosting different guests with their heads full of alcohol and drugs, the screenplay could not be much better. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Aniversário de Casamento (Wedding Anniversary) "},{"Title":"Eh.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd have to agree with the AP entertainment news which called thisindulgent and only interesting if you're an actor. It's basically abunch of actors at a party, preening and bitching, not content withtheir beautiful lives and Neutra house and special Mexican cooks andmaids. They take ecstasy, and have some dramatic revelations. Thecentral relationship is a woman who has married a gay man, proving howsmart she is and making it hard to care about the bed she (or her maid)has made and is now lying in. Gwenneth Paltrow appears in this film as abeguiling young famous actress who, when on drugs, does a very odd danceby the pool, at which point I thought that I was the one on drugs. Sheis lovely to look at, but I still wonder if anybody is upstairs if youknow what I mean. Jennifer Jason Leigh is good as always, as is KevinKline, but everyone else suffers under the weight of the mediocrescript. This is no Big Chill, or even Little Chill- it's just roomtemperature.   "},{"Title":"The cinematic definition of self-indulgent","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I looked at this DVD for the first time in at least 5 or 6 years. I am a fan of the genre, but had forgotten about the film.Looking back at it after all this time, I now understand what made this flick so forgettable.Do not get me wrong, a couple of these type of ensemble movies are among my all-time favorites, including The Big Chill and It's My Party. This movie, however, is nearly unwatchable in parts.Sorry, but the casting of the entire Kline family to play....The Klines...was cringe-inducing. Similarly, the central characters are not believable from the get-go. The entire movie plays out as an actors exercise, with dollops of insider references sprinkled throughout to give everyone a sense of what Hollywood is allegedly all about.I am not sure how many times the term 'self-indulgement' popped up in my mind while watching this, but it was my primary thought through the entire first half-hour. With a set-up this superficial, any of the developing drama was bound to fall flat. Who was there to empathize with?The main reason I didn't rate this film worse is probably the performances of Posey, Hickey and Badie. Additionally, there were occasionally searing glimpses of narcissistic truth thrown in.Honestly, though. I love a new age-type party, but watching the allegedly spontaneous performances at the celebratory portion of the evening, where the guests speak to the hosts was....how can I put this gracefully....making me glad I had not eaten before viewing it.Considering my expectations for this sort of film, and the casting, it may be as disappointing a movie as I have seen. "},{"Title":"Great Movie More About The Biz, Than The Cast","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though one can take this movie out of context (namely, seeing it as a masturbatory effort among actors, friends in real life), I still enjoy the genuine acting which comes mainly from the casts familiarity of one another. Anniversary, though as another post says, is a film on film, but I think, at worst, it is a nice movie to watch while logged-in to IMDb, because of all the links between the actors/actresses.Except, they say to drink lots of water with ecstasy, which, any doctor will tell you can cause cranial edema.  "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i liked this film. for an independent with limited budget, the production values were very good.SPOILERespecially enjoyed the scene with the two topless women underwater being shot by john c. reilly's character. whimsical and amusing, cut between two serious, fast-paced scenes.the ending seemed anti-cathartic and a number of plot points never reach resolution, but oh well. nice first attempt.also nice to see leigh writing and directing. she's always been an interesting actress. always wondered what went on in that head of hers. "},{"Title":"The Kliens are delightful **Spoilers**","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     I have been to Hollywood parties and believe me this is a pretty good picture of one....alas.  A more self-absorbed buch of pin-heads you would never want to meet.  As i said in the summary the Kliens seem to have insight and a sense of humor about themselves... but scenes with Kevin, Pheobe and their cute kids are too few.  The way the nieghbors are treated is the real deal and for a moment you think some insight might be forthcoming.... but no... i think the writers really do find anyone outside of Hollywood boring.    BTW, these are the WORST kind of dog owners.  Sentimental and vapid.  If i saw them do ONE thing for their dog besides drool over the poor thing, i would've felt different about the whole movie.  Thank God she got an abortion.    Vapid and self-absorbed.  Where's Altman when you need him?  Watch the Big Chill again for a better treatment of pals at a party.  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully messy experience","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glamorous lives in utter shambles feeding our depraved hunger for tragic Hollywood beautiful people.We hate the people who this movie represents. We snicker in contempt at their shallow troubles and whiney personas and wish them utter collapse off of the mountains that they search or to drwon in the cesspool that they leisurely swim and play in.It is only in the end with the cleansing by the maids and the return of Otis that we realize our happiness that their lives are not utterly bleak. For though we all know that Hollywood is a false fronted world, we are drawn to its illusions nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Comedy with a Great Cast","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party is a terrific comedy.  Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jane Adams and Parker Posey are fantastic and whole cast works extremely well together.  This is one comedy that shouldn't be missed.  One of the best comedies I have seen in a long time.   "},{"Title":"Found myself so involved.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen many movies, well way to many movies. I don't know why I feel so passionate about this film, but I have to say it was the best film of the year. I know what your thinking. Best film of the Year! I sound like one of those silly movie critics. You know the ones who always seem to uses the words exhilarating, mesmerizing. Well at least you won't find that from me. I have two favorite scenes. First one, when Joe and the neighbor are in the little office. I could literally feel the tension in that room. I for a min. forgot I was watching a movie. The look on Joe's face when she pulled out that book, and asked him to sign it. I loved that the movie didn't seem like a typical movie script well planned out for some silly demographic, It seemed to really develop into an incredible story, story seems like to simple of a word to describe it. And don't even get me started on the scene at the end where the are looking for Otis(the bane of their neighbors existence) that argument they were having, it felt real, people just saying what they felt. Not like most writers who seem to make their characters say things they wish they had said in arguments(ie. Kevin Smith) That fight was like a real couple dealing with things left unsaid way too long. When he slapped her I wanted to hit him back. Ok now I'm really rambling. Listen watch this movie, better yet buy this movie.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant writing and acting","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast had really good chemistry, partially because most of them are all friends, and from what I've read about the movie, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming who wrote and directed the film, encouraged the actors to modify some of their dialogue or lines.  But this only made each of the characters more appealing in that everything in the film seemed very real - not acted out. A great piece of writing, and I hope see more from both Jason-Leigh and Cumming.  "},{"Title":"Great performances!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party is a great film with wonderful performances! This film was shot completely on digital video by Leigh and Cumming, who also star in the film.  The plot line is fairly simple, Leigh and Cumming play a couple that have been seperated then get back together and have an anniversary party.  The guest list includes a great cast of actors.  I did not find one flaw in any of the performances.   The film is also about the whole film industry, Leigh plays an actress that was once famous when she was younger. Cumming plays an author set to direct his film debut.  The cast includes the amazing Parker Posey, Jane Adams, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Klein just to mention a few.  The party takes a swing when Paltrow's character brings ecestasy as a present for everyone.  Everyone get's high and acts like teenagers but in a very good way. All in all, an excellent film! ****/out of 5 "},{"Title":"Great Movie...unexpectedly good","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is it like to attend a party with famous people in Hollywood?  `The Anniversary Party' will answer that question and take you into the personal lives of a famous actress and her husband, a famous novelist that just got the green light to direct his first movie.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is Sally Nash and Alan Cummings is her husband, Joe Therrian.  Sally and Joe have recently reconciled their relationship, and it's their 6th wedding anniversary, and they celebrate by having their friends over to their home in the Hollywood hills.  What transpires is funny, sad, and just plain interesting.  Cummings and Leigh show us that the rich and famous are just like everyone else.  Everyone has their own set of problems, and there's nothing like alcohol and drugs to bring it all out in front of your friends.   Cummings and Leigh are the writers and directors of the film.  Both do a great job acting and directing.  They do a great job of making a very intimate feeling movie.  It is a low budget, independent movie that is shot with digital cameras, which has become a trend in movie making to save money on film and cameras.  This is the type of movie that will give hope to aspiring filmmakers that have a small budget.  You don't need special effects and action to make a great movie, just genuine human drama and great acting.Phoebe Cates (one of my celebrity crushes that I had when I was young&#133;see `Fast Times at Ridgemont High') turns up as Sophia Gold, the wife of the Academy Award winning actor Cal Gold, played by her real-life husband, Kevin Kline.  She is an actress that stopped working to raise her two kids (similar to her real-life story).  Their real-life kids are also in the movie.  She is terrific in the role and she still looks good to me.Gwyneth Paltrow plays, Skye Davidson, a sexy (although I don't think she's that hot) young actress that Joe has chosen to play the lead in his upcoming movie, which is based on his wife, Sally.  Skye is star-struck when meeting Joe and Sally.  Sally, however, is jealous and angry that Joe would pick such a `stinking, f***ing actress' actress to play her in the movie, and that he invited her to their party.Jane Adams II is also among the ensemble cast.  Adams was a real standout in the Todd Solondz movie `Happiness', and she is terrific playing a neurotic actress that lets herself go during the party.   Parker Posey, John C. Reilly, and Jennifer Beals round out this eclectic cast.  A new actress, Mina Badie (Leigh's real-life half-sister), is a standout as the wife of the `neighbors from hell'.This is a great first movie for Leigh and Cummings.  It makes you wonder how close to autobiographical it may be.  For the most part, I really enjoyed going to their party, however there are times when you wish you could leave the party early, then the drugs break out and things heat up.  I really liked it.    9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"anger a-plenty, rife with sardonics","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Amazingly, the best moments of this wry, tense little dramedy written and directed by Leigh and Cummings are judiciously alotted not to the auteurs nor the most obvious Ms. Paltrow, but to more minor, sometimes little-known actors like Badie and Paynes. Also thoroughly enjoyable is the hysterical Jane Addams (hysterical in both senses), the underrated and much-beloved John C. Reilly, and Mina Badie as the uncertain, wanna-be joiner neighbor (and Leigh's stepsister?!).  Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates are wonderful as well, as a couple of real (pretentious) actors of the Shakespearean vein.  Watching Kline dance with his daughter is tremendous and unassuming, as are the pregnant pauses imbuing awkwardness throughout the Hollywood schmoozefest that also feels very familiar to those of us not from LA who just have really fake friends and tenuous connections with them, all the same.  Jennifer Beals' photography is a treat, as well. "},{"Title":"At its best when it's at its quietest","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard that this was an actors' movie both because it was, of course, written and directed by two actors, but also because it was basically constructed to be a showcase for acting - plot, visuals, 'message,' etc. are all secondary at best. And that's pretty much true. But it's not entirely a problem, because the acting here is all quite good, and for the most part at the subtle end of the spectrum. Actors' movie suggests that the actors will get to scream and shout and cry - but here, rather, it's the many layers and shades of tension at a party that are the focus... ...well, until the second half of the movie, when they all scream and shout and cry. Which was a disappointment. I enjoyed the first half quite a lot - it achieved a sense of this social world really exists, and we all know about it and we're presenting it as faithfully as we can, which is, to me, always an interesting thing to watch onscreen, regardless of what that world is. The second half was more about DRAMA and REVELATIONS, which has its place, sure, but which inevitably pales in comparison to seeing a really convincing game of charades.People who take this movie and its creators to task for rampant self-indulgence are probably on to something - but that didn't really bother me, since I enjoyed it from a purely people-watching standpoint, and didn't feel it necessary to wonder what the filmmakers thought they were SAYING about these people.  I hope nothing too grand, because they certainly didn't achieve it.  Perhaps if that was MY world, I'd find this movie absurd and half-baked, but it's not my world, and so the movie had a certain anthropological value to me.  At least the quiet parts.When nothing much is happening, so to speak, all there is to care about is the acting - and those are the times when this movie has the most to offer.As for the digital video issue, I'll just mention that I had heard when it first came out that the movie was shot in DV but forgot while I was watching it...and on two or three occasions thought, not knowing the cause, oops, something funny happened with the film there.  They all involved high contrast creating a splotchy look or a blurry quality to the motion. I'm sure the production benefits of DV more than compensate for little stuff like that, and I'm all for it - I'm just reporting that it wasn't ENTIRELY invisible. "},{"Title":"A Labor Of Love","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A joint directing and writing project from superb actors Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh. The film has a seemingly improvised, verite feel to it. As it's about a party, it works almost as if it's a home movie and given the feeling of friends in a labor of love project, shaky camerawork and cropped heads at the top of many frames it probably was intended as such. Cumming and Leigh play an estranged show couple attempting to reconcile and celebrate their sixth anniversary. They invite their friends and neighbors (each of whom they judge and are in turn judged by them) and as the evening progresses, devastating secrets are revealed. There's quite a bit of Edward Albee's influence at work--the script seems designed to portray everyone in the most despicable manner possible. But Cumming and Leigh don't spend enough time on background information so that when empathy is called for it's impossible for you to deliver. Still, there's a suitably uncomfortable feeling that permeates the proceedings and the filmmakers and performers are delighted to be in the process of creating something with emotion. It has its moments. "},{"Title":"What happens when you let actors behind the camera?","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When the actors get behind the camera they provide a rich story and give amazing performances.  Everyone shines in this ensemble cast, each contributing to this DV masterpiece.  Although the story has been attacked, I think it works for this particular film.  It gives that sense of realness to it.  How many parties have you been to that had a particular plot? Besides, this is a film about showcasing talent and it does just that. Also some interesting camera work thrown into the mix giving it a unique look. It being shot on DV gives it an intimate feel that perhaps film could not capture.  Congrats to Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie and no, your eyes aren't blurred.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What an emotional rollercoaster of a movie! One minute your high, the next the actors are, and the next everybody is down. This is not your usual Hollywood fayre, so if you're looking for a frenetic pace with action scenes you'll be disappointed. Instead you'll be treated to a study of a group of thespian friends all trying hard to hold their lives together. Sometimes hilarious and sometimes anguished.This movie was filmed using digital video which on first viewing seems to work well with static or zoom shots, but introduce a pan and you'll be wondering what happened to your eyesight. Until the capture rate of these cameras canbe substantially increased, I don't think film is in any danger.A highlight of this movie is the homage to Peter Sellars played wonderfully, and uncannily, by Levi Panes. It wouldn't be fair to say that this movie copied The Party (1968), but it's clear to see where the concept came from and the tribute to the late Mr Sellars is fitting. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"superb cast frame entertaining and provocative film","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party, at first glance, appears to be a light-hearted, near-documentary picture starring an ensemble cast of actors and friends portraying- actors and friends.  Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming sparkle as a couple reconciled after a year's seperation.  The entire film takes place on their 6th anniversary, where they decide to throw a party commemorating the event with their good friends (and a few extras that spice up the mix)in their lovely Laurel Canyon home. The party and its eclectic guests mingle amicably and enjoy side conversation and a raucuous game of charades.  The ensemble cast is fantastic  in addition to Leigh and Cumming, they include Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates, Gwenyth Paltrow, John C. Reilly and Jane Adams, and indie queen Parker Posey. The film unfolds into a character study of a classic LA crowd  actors wary of the sacrifices they've made in life, jealousy, neediness, and secrets and lies.  With the aid of the drug Ecstasy, brought as a gift by Paltrow's actress character Skye Davidson, these characters are forced to confront the difficult truths that shape their lives. If nothing else, The Anniversary Party would be a pleasure if only to see such good actors all at work in the same room.  But Leigh and Cumming's story shows us a world of people far from the glitz and glamour of Hollywood but with real problems and issues, a perspective that I enjoyed.The use of ecstasy as a so-called 'climax catalyst'is a bold move by the directors, considering allthe publicity it receives these days.  Like any experience, it causes grief for some and gratification for others.  I liked how the film didn't stoop to making a moral message about drug use. The film would not be liked by those who dislike mingling levity with gravitas, as The Anniversary Party does.  For everyone else, this film is certainly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Self-Absorbed Creeps Can Be Interesting","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was interested in these characters and this story for the same reasons I love All About Eve...yes, their lives are nothing like mine, yes they are spoiled rotten and totally self-involved.  Yet I was thoroughly entertained by their antics and really liked the film.  Of course Eve is a classic and Party will doubtless never achieve that status.  A film like Eve wouldn't ever go over today, though.  The oh-so-cynical denizens of the warp speed fast lane of today's Hollywood (or its adjunct on Broadway) would never buy the wide-eyed act of an Eve Harrington.  Paltrow's character in Party is an interesting parallel to Eve.  She moves in on Sally's turf, albeit without quite so much covert manipulation as Eve brought to bear. Her very presence reminds Sally she's getting on in years.  Sally's flickering talent doesn't compare in the slightest to Margo Channing's, and the disparities between the two are myriad.  All in all, though, I had a great time watching these characters do their thing. "}{"Title":"NOT BAD, Worth Watching","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this recently because I see so many movies at least two a day for the past twenty years I consider myself a somewhat critic on what is good and not good. First off,I am not a huge Jennifer Jason Liegh fan but have found some of her movies good. While I was scraping the barrel at my local video shop I came across this title. To say the least, it was interesting. Pretty good performances all around from a stellar cast. A kind of Slice of life movie. I am not a huge fan of slice of life movies but this was decent, Definnetely better than 95% of the movies today. A few requirements though you probably have to be over 25, have a functioning Cerebral Cortex, and a little life knowlege or wisdom to get this flick. If you have less than those three things you are probably better off avoiding this film. "},{"Title":"Only if you have a high tolerance for pain...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***MINOR SPOILERS***I had heard this was gonna' be a stinker, but grabbed it as a freebie from the local library...i.e.-not much at stake other than 2 hours. Boy, do I want those 2 hours back.The story of frustrated LA types approaching middle-age just didn't work for me. I'm amazed this movie grossed even 4 million bucks in the U.S.---can that many people relate to these characters? The acting was OK, but the story was D.O.A.I thought it would be a treat to see the Fast Times duo of Phoebe and Jenny 20 years later, but no such luck. When they all went out to the pool, I was secretly hoping Rat and Damone might show up for comic relief, but it wasn't to be. Instead, we get John C. Reilly almost drowning, while everybody else is arguing while looking for a lost dog.Take a pass, but if you're still interested, it may show up on BRAVO in 2008, and you can join the Party then. "},{"Title":"A COURSE ON TEAM ACTING","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  but despite wonderful performances by the entire ensemble cast, this is Jennifer Jason Leigh's movie and she makes of the most of it. She plays a former star actress hitting her 40s and has to come to grips with that and what everyone assumes is her very late pregnancy at her anniversary party. Her husband Cumming is a now famous British author with a best seller on his hands and a married couple living next door who can't stand his dog.The story is predictable but notable for the very fine performances by all and the fact that this was shot on digital video but none but the very trained eye could point that out. Special kudos to Cates and Beals who definitely need to be seen more often and add another hurrah for Leigh and Cumming's writing abilities. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly self-indulgent.  All the good parts were in the trailer.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the good parts were in the trailer, which appeared funny in an adult and serious way.  The movie turned out to be unfunny while struggling to be serious but ending up only self-indulgent.  Let's show how we're not self-indulgent by making all the characters awful, including ourselves. In the end I couldn't find a single character to like in the entire film. "},{"Title":"Great movie, if you let it be","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All of you snot nosed, high and mighty critics need just to sit down and watch movies. Stop being so uptight and just relax. This is a funny, insightful, creative film that entertained me. It may not of been the best performance by Paltrow, but the quirky directing style and home video type camera work give it a good flow. I ENJOYED IT a ton, and can't wait to get it on video. If people would just sit and watch movies without any expectations attached they would enjoy each one better. "},{"Title":"I never forgot I was looking at actors acting.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There wasn't a moment during the film that I felt I was looking at the characters, rather than the actors playing the characters.  The actors were all so proud of how clever they were, they forgot to stop being proud and actually step inside the characters they were supposed to be portraying. "},{"Title":"A major breakthrough for Independent Films","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Make no mistake. This is an important break for modestly budgeted Independent films. Shot on Digital Video, in less than 20 days with a brilliant ensemble cast. Maybe not the freshest script concept,but magnificently realized in ways that are simply breathtaking in their sharp take on human relations during one of those kinds of parties. Filled with deeply felt observations of the human condition.  "},{"Title":"Like the characters, it has it's up's and downs, and each up is high and each down is horrible","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that statement can sum up this movie, which at times seems more like an experiment than a motion picture, but what do you expect from first time directors (or are they first time, who knows) Alan Summing and Jennifer Jason Leigh, who also wrote, co-produced and co-star in this uh, thing about a couple who have they're 6th wedding anniversary party with friends all around including Parker Posey, Gwyneth Paltrow, John C. Reiley, Phoebe Cates and the best of the supporting characters and possibly the best character in the movie, Kevin Kline.  Each play a version of themselves, I guess, and they give some really good performances with some transparent digital video work (transparent in that the average movie goer might not be able to tell at first it's not a regular movie camera).Unfortunately, while the film has a lot of improvisation and is often interesting, it is also often self-indulgent tripe and some scenes are not really worthy of film exposure.  Still, it's worth a look, mainly for those who are fans of the cast (Kline made it almost worth while).  The final scene will bring a smile to anyone's face through all the dramatic stuff that the viewer endures.  B "},{"Title":"Entertaining look at the insiders","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All over Hollywood, there are struggling young actors discouraged about not being able to get auditions or agents, much less parts in films.  Sometimes they get together after acting class and say, Hey, why don't we make our own movie.  There's enough of us here for a complete cast.  I know somebody who has a big house he'd lend us for a few days.  Hey, I know a guy with a digital video camera who'd love to shoot it!That's apparently what happened with Anniversary Party.  The kids wrote a simple script about a group of actor/pals getting together to celebrate a couple's sixth wedding anniversary.  But the plot twist is this  She's an actress past her prime, he's a bi-sexual British writer and his new book, which is all about her, is being made into a movie, but he can't cast her because she's too old. It all takes place in one location, a nice house in the Hollywood hills, and they shot it on digital video. Why, even the actors probably worked for scale.  The thing is, though, in this case the actors are Jennifer Jason Leigh, Alan Cumming, Kevin Kline, Phoebe Cates, Parker Posey,Jennifer Beals, John C.Reilly and, of yes, thrown in for good measure, Gwyneth Paltrow.  Apparently, Tom and Nicole were busy getting a divorce, or they would have at least popped in for dessert.Now that I've vented that bit of jealousy about the difficulties of getting independent projects financed WITHOUT big name stars, this is actually a pretty nice little movie. The script is good, if not too heavy with plot, and the acting, as you might expect, is just great.  Special bravos to Jennifer Jason Leigh, who did everything on this movie by sell popcorn in the lobby, to Phoebe Cates, who it is nice to see back in front of a camera, and to Jennifer Beals, who does a very nice turn as the best frind who'd like to be more, and continues to get even better looking the older she gets.Actually, although things get pretty heavy at the end, this one is worth seeing, if for no reason than it points out that in Hollywood, the intimate little party will probably include your business manager and the next door neighbors who you hate, plus that actress you hardly know, but need to sign for your next directoral project. Forget the marriage tettering on the brink, in Hollywood, nothing matter really but the career. "},{"Title":"THE CELEBRATION meets GLAMORAMA","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There hasn't been a meaner sneer-down-the-nose by a rich and famous filmmaker toward the unwashed masses since Woody Allen's STARDUST MEMORIES. The most pungent moments in this digital-video celebrity wankathon come when the famous novelist (Alan Cumming) and the famous movie actress (Jennifer Jason Leigh) invite their un-famous next-door neighbors to their anniversary party. The writer-director-stars Leigh and Cumming get at exactly the way these two supernovas would deal with civilians in the midst of an all-star self-congratulation fest--and creepily, the movie expects us to sheer this I'm-too-sure snottiness. (In a dim attempt at counterbalance, Gwyneth Paltrow is enlisted to play a parody of the too-pretty, too-beloved, too-perfectly-everything qualities of Gwyneth Paltrow. The plan backfires; Paltrow gives the best performance in the movie.)The conceit is that Leigh and Cumming are getting together after a five-year relationship interrupted by a nearly-year-long blip of estrangement. They celebrate six years together, and celebrate it too quickly--their relationship has not had time to mend, and already all their glammy friends are on hand to witness the tensions. (You don't have to be that much of a film geek to recognize the party-too-soon conceit as a lift from A WOMAN UNDER THE INFLUENCE.) Most of the movie consists of fairly accurate depictions of rich, more-or-less-famous, fortyish people who live in the exclusive, remote Laurel Canyon section of Los Angeles. Some of this seems meant to be satirical (like bringing a yoga instructor into one's house) and some of it seems like the real, actual, shallow stuff movie stars think about, and don't realize that other people find incredibly uninteresting (such as duelling with your nobody neighbors over your barking dog--God, I LOVE my dog!)Full of real-life parallels that can give you the willies (Phoebe Cates plays a warm, nurturing woman who has given up an acting career to raise the kids of her husband, played by Kevin Kline; the most pathetic person in the movie is played by Jennifer Jason Leigh's half-sister), THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY starts out like a weird, uncertain blurring of Joan Didion and Carrie Fisher. The actors seem stranded, and you can make out their thought bubbles. Is this stuff funny? Not funny? Meant to be funny? Phoebe Cates is given a rushed scene in which the intention seems to have been to give her all the acting high points she's missed in her last decade of non-acting; the actor just seems stuck, overwhelmed. Smart cookies like John C. Reilly, Jane Adams and Parker Posey (the last, sinfully, almost cruelly underused) flounder--who am I this time? And the only strong, true notes are struck by Paltrow and by Jennifer Beals, a onetime twinkie who, in her late thirties, is so blazingly beautiful and so roars with confidence that she folds up the movie and walks off with it like a counterfeit buck.Jennifer Jason Leigh is, at times, a great actress. Her performances in MIAMI BLUES, LAST EXIT TO BROOKLYN, EXISTENZ and especially GEORGIA are landmarks. She's our Gena Rowlands, bless her heart. I don't think she's ever given a performance as bad as this one--and yes, I've seen THE HUDSUCKER PROXY, more than once. Like Rupert and Madonna, she and Cumming are an asexual duet who bring out the crummiest parts of each other. To me, Cumming always seems like he's dreaming of himself as a little boy in a sailor suit being cooed over by his mommy; his acting consists of making various aren't-I-darling muggy faces. Somehow, this has infected Leigh, who gives an itsy-bitsy performance that forges a new, horrific genre of acting widdle-girl, precious divaness. It's like watching J-Lo act like Shirley Temple. Leigh's acting usually is full of artifice and affectation, but underneath it is the truth of the character. Here, all one sees is a needy star's love-me mannerisms--and they don't seem to belong to what little character is there. It's the actor you respond to in her graspingness.The last act pulls out some Oh no! moments that rip off the climaxes of GODFATHER TWO and CARNAL KNOWLEDGE, respectively. There are absurd moments--such as Reilly nearly drowning in a pool, then, in solitude, having a sobbing fit. (Leigh needs to stop watching her buddy P.T. Anderson's movies.) As the movie drags on and on, you can't help feeling that of all theself-pleased, closed-circuited Hollywood-insider movies--POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE being the most recent, repellent example--this one is the most deluded. It expects that we're going to share in the agonies of being rich, celebrated, and a little--but not too much--past it. Can Jennifer Jason Leigh be so eager to shed the iconic image of herself as an impresario of wastrels, hookers and drug addicts that she felt compelled to go springing in the other direction--toward pastel, Westside banality?Or--scariest of all--could it be that that's who she really is? "}{"Title":"Enjoyable, and innovative comedy/drama","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the DGA theater in NYC followed by discussion with the directors.  First and foremost, it should be noted that the acting in this film is not improvisational(except for the toasting scene). This is the best DV film I have seen to date.  And it is one of the best films I have seen this year, with a very interesting shooting style(it all takes place in one House/canyon backyard).  To make that visually appealing for a sustained amount of time is an achievement in itself.   The film hits on many emotions very effectively and is intelligently written, acted, shot, and edited.  A real enjoyable film with a great musical back drop. Gwyneth Paltrow gives a great comedic performance, Parker Posey(who seems to never have a bad performance) is also great.  Kevin Kline, Jennifer Beals, Phoebe Cates, John C, reilly are all reason enough to see this film.++++++++mini spoilers+++++ My favorite part of the film is when, Kevin Kline's son serenades the couple, it was sweet, soft and hilarious.  Not to be outdone by the interpretive dance that Kevin and his daughter give during the toasting scene.  Truly personal moments that are forever captured in this film.  It was just great, and funny at the same time.If you are looking for explosions(other than comedic or dramatic) go see a blockbuster.  If you are looking for intelligence, grace, and daring filmmaking go see The Anniversary Party.Congratulations Alan and Jenifer on a great first feature.... "},{"Title":"finely nuanced","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't really expecting much from this one; I only watched it because I'm a big fan of Leigh.  I expected one of those plotless character study movies that leave me uninvolved and unsatisfied, and really, it fits neatly in that category except I really liked it.  The characters were fully drawn and real, the acting was intelligent and while there wasn't a real story the various incidents don't just sit there but keep a momentum going.  Full of nice touches and moments.  There are a lot of people in this one so some kind of get lost in the shuffle, but they all get at least a brief moment to shine and a few like Jane Adams really stand out.    And Leigh, as always, is great. "},{"Title":"A nice diversion.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anniversary party features a couple, he a writer, she an actress, celebrating their 6th wedding anniversary after recently getting back together. They invite friends and co-workers to their house for an evening of fun, drinking, games, and a little exstacy. One of the couples are a couple in real life, Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates, and their small son and daughter act in it also. There isn't any great new revelation here. Just a cross-section of the types of issues real people have. It is acted and edited well, and the viewing time passes comfortably. One of my local library free rentals', the DVD picture is marginal, possibly because it was filmed digitally instead of on film. The print doesn't appear to have the usual saturation of images we see from real film. It is rated R for language and two women swimming topless during one scene.  "},{"Title":"Shallow","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I disliked `The Anniversary Party'.    I thought the movie featured a bunch of self-indulgent children grown old.   I can't say I liked any of the characters at the party.  I would have left that party early after being surrounded by that group of navel gazers.  The affluent lives they led would be a dream to most of the audience yet these people were unhappy and unsatisfied.  They were reprehensible.   The story hinged on noncommunication and lying.  No truths are told until everyone is wasted on drugs.  What does that say for maturity or honesty?  Do these people have any values at all?   The lives portrayed in this movie were shallow and dishonest.  The cast was top notch but the story was bad, bad, bad.  Were they trying to expose the shallowness of Hollywood or did they inadvertently give us a glimpse into how empty their lives really are.   (SPOILER ahead if I can spoil what is already rotted).  I believe the death of the sister to be a metaphor for the lives these people lead.  Their talent and affluence is squandered by their childish ways.   (SPOILER defunct).  Miss this movie if you can. "},{"Title":"Leigh and Cummings - the new writing/directing team to watch!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The collaborative efforts of Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cummings (who co-wrote and co-directed) pay off bigtime in this story that takes place on one day, unfolding slowly and with great polish.  Not once does the film drop into predictability or over-wrought confessional, although there is drama and many layers to be peeled during the course of the anniversary party in question. The characters are extremely well-written and brought to life brilliantly.  All of them have extreme complexity of emotion and each is well-developed, with everyone getting the opportunity to reveal what's under the surface, beneath the facade. But it's not like one of those ensemble pieces where everyone gets to have 'his big scene.'  This is more masterfully crafted than that; it has a genuinely organic quality that rings true throughout.  By the end, I felt as if I had been in the house with them, been part of what had taken place.  "},{"Title":"The Noble Struggle","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The noble struggle is what I like to call the struggle we all go through, dealing with our own psyches, who we think we should be as opposed to who we are, or who others think we are, and the heartbreaks that life throws into our paths to deal with.  The struggle for our dignity.  The movies that embody this are as diverse as 'Cool Hand Luke' and 'Strictly Ballroom'. They peel back the layers of the onion and give you glimpses of souls learning to survive.These sorts of movies are my absolute favorite, and 'The Anniversary Party' is a beautiful new addition to the genre. It's a work of art. "},{"Title":"Much Ado About Nothing","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard all of the great reviews and some quirky ads for this independent movie as some sort of modern Big Chill.  This movie even had Big Chill alumnus Kevin Kline and his wife the best part about Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Phoebe Cates.  Yes, I agree that there are a good group of actors in this movie, but the more I watched it, the more depressed I became over the hedonistic behavior of these characters.  The Big Chill was a hit because the characters overcame their problems with each other and drew closer in the end.  In this rather horrifying movie the characters grew apart more and more as the plot dragged on, and you pitied these characters rather than felt any empathy for them.  And how can you actually believe that Alan Cumming has any heterosexual tendencies?  Not that there is anything wrong with that, but he is totally unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this last night, and just loved it.  For those who require neat and clean stories with a single throughline, you might not enjoy it -- this film is more like a play by Chekhov than your usual summer movie fare.But like Chekhov, it gets you to care about it's myriad characters even if it never quite approves of them.  Gwyneth Paltrow, Phoebe Cates, Mina Badie, Michael Panes, Jane Adams, Jennifer Beals, John Benjamin Hickey, John C. Reilly, and Cumming & Leigh themselves are all fantastic.  And some of the one-liners are priceless.Granted, my tastes are a bit left of center, but this movie is my favorite (so far) of 2001 -- possibly the best movie I've seen since You Can Count On Me. "},{"Title":"A real gem, completely absorbing...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party was a real gem, with wonderful characters and compelling, contemporary themes.  It was quite well written, beautifully acted, and nicely rendered despite, or perhaps because it was filmed digitally.  Not only was the movie entertaining and provocative and funny on a purely fictional level, but I couldn't help wondering how close the lives of the characters were to the lives of the actors that played them.  This cast took risks.  And the result was more than a handful of amazing moments. Was it perfect?  No.  Did I care?  No.  I was completely absorbed through the entire length of the film and left the theater wishing for more movies like it. "},{"Title":"Better than Pearl Harbor","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was better than Pearl Harbor, but that's about the best that can be said for it.  It is moderately entertaining with a few interesting scenes.  But it is ultimately overly self-indulgent and empty (who really could care about these characters), and cannot sustain the occasional humor that may have overcome its significant flaws.  You can do worse than this among the summer movies that are out right now, but you can do much better at Blockbuster. "}{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this today (it's opening day) despite some so-so reviews, and didn't like it. It's long and kind of like an Altman film without the bite. And like an Altman film, the wrong girl is nude. Lots of talk by and about spoiled actors, and not many laughs. Some of the acting seems amateurish and it looks like it was filmed on video, which is not a compliment. Rent an old Altman film instead.        .. "},{"Title":"This is very, very pretentious.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is extraordinarily pretentious. First of all, all of the characters in this film are unlikable and annoying. If such people exist, you certainly would not want to spend any time with them--not even for two hours--at a distance. This seems to be an instance where a group of Hollywood stars got together to make a movie, created a cast of characters almost no ordinary person could possibly relate to in any way, and then expects an audience to indulge in their pitiful neuroses with them. I'm not at all anti-Hollywood or one of those deeply idiotic right-wing morons who complain that celebrities are so out of touch with mechanics and Midwest elementary school teachers, but these characters are truly vapid, self-indulgent and just plain annoying. You might be tempted to rent this movie because of it's excellent cast--don't. Yes, there are some very good actors, but I assure you they are all entirely wasted in this masturbatory exercise in film-making. Jennifer Jason Leigh is a fine and quite underrated actress, but apparently that talent evaporates when she moves behind the camera. As for Alan Cumming, I suppose he's good in a strictly Joel Grey-Cabaret sort of way, but rather limited as an actor. For instance, in the movie he plays Jennifer Jason Leigh's husband--despite the fact that he is undeniably, screamingly homosexual. The movie even points this out, but it still expects us to believe in this relationship, which is sort of what the movie centers on--that and a group of very superficial entertainment people getting together, doing drugs, embarking on a voyage of self-discovery--blah friggin' blah. Stay away from this movie; it bites. "},{"Title":"Worst movie EVER","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In short, my blood is thicker than the plot of this movie.  It could not possibly have sucked more.  Cumming and Leigh's gross overacting was probably the most entertaining element of this slow, rambling, aimless, and seemingly neverending piece of crap.  Don't waste your money on the rental, but more importantly, don't waste your time on the worst movie that I have seen in quite some time. "},{"Title":"My Kind of Party!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What could be better than a Parker Posey movie? The answer...Parker Posey, Jennifer Beals, Phoebe Cates, Gwen Paltow, & Jennifer Jason Leigh all together in on film!!! This movie was amazing! Before you continue to read, let me give a word of advice...if you are the kind of person who is into the unrealistic-blockbuster-box-office-all about the moneymaker movies, then this is not for you. The story behind this well written film is a couple celebrating their 6th anniversary at their home. He is a director & she is an aging actress. Throughout the afternoon their friends begin to show up for the party. Between the fellow friends of the business & the (un)friendly neighbors who also show up to discuss Otis (the dog) you have loads of fun...from an outragous game of Charades to later on at night when they decide to try the drug X.  After watching this all-star cast, I would of loved to attend that party! 1-10 (10)    "},{"Title":"Let's Celebrate.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Anniversary Party (2001) Dir Alan Cumming, Jennifer Jason Leigh / Cast Alan Cumming, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Kevin Kline, Phoebe Cates, Gwyneth Paltrow Detailed look at truths and secrets harboured by couples. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming celebrate their sixth anniversary after a year separation. He is a novelist casting a former girlfriend in a film version of his latest work. They invite friends including real life couple Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates. Kline is a former co-star of Leigh's, and Cates paused her career to raise a family. Realistic yet disjointed with buried secrets surfacing. Cumming and Leigh show great potential as first time directors. They manage to keep track of subplots surrounding the ensemble cast. Leigh conceals her resentment while Cumming verges upon crumbling. They both must face facts within their marriage including the false front they display amongst their peers to give the illusion that they are a happy couple. As the evening wears on truths surface that threaten to traumatize their marriage. Kline and Cates display wonderful chemistry that very well may be true in reality. They are observers but not imitators. Gwyneth Paltrow appears as an actress and former girlfriend of the Cumming character. Engaging film about relationships that generates great potential from both its leads in front and behind the camera. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"feels like a real party","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood couple Sally (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Joe Therrian (Alan Cumming) invite their friends and others to their home for their sixth year anniversary party. His novel is being adapted but she's not being cast as the lead. Young starlet Skye Davidson (Gwyneth Paltrow) who got the role is invited. They are disputing with their neighbors about their dog's barking and somehow got into the party. The party starts lightly but with underlining tension. However the party deteriorates.There are so many characters and so many relationships to keep track of. The large compelling cast of actors is both its appeal and its handicap. There are no throw away characters which is great but it also means there are no throw away characters. There are some fun moments but it feels a little random. Phoebe Cates does return from retirement with her real husband Kevin Kline and their kids. The movie has the feel of watching a real party. JJL and Cumming just need to refine their script to sharpen the humor. "},{"Title":"Indie Stars Gone Awry","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This artistic collaboration between Mr. Cumming and Ms. Leigh is full of surprises. That these two established stars, used to playing edgy, dark, and unconventional roles would create such an ensemble piece makes me wonder what were they smokin'? Who could, after all, think actors, playing stereotypical Hollywood types, could be so boring, self-centered, and banal? And all in one evening? Anniversary Party is a perfect example of why most actors should not direct, not write, and then make it even worse by acting in the central roles. How can veteran screen stars like Alan Cumming, et al, can be so unconvincing in these one-dimensional characterizations? It's quite a hoot seeing Alan Cumming, that confirmed out-of-the-closet fashion maverick, trying to convince us he's a straight, middle-of-the-road Hollywood artist named Joe Theirran. We only have to see his Titus, Plunkett and Maclean, and yes-even Spy Kids to set our heads spinning at this sleight- of-hand nonsense.Jennifer Jason Leigh swaps her trademark controlled, neurotic ladies to wander about as Sally Theirran, looking like a victim of too much self-direction. Ms. Leigh's Delores Claireborne and Ms. Parker sparkle in our minds, only to disappear with the onslaught of this cinematic nightmare.The wonder of Indie films is that they show us a different perspective, away from the narrow frame of Hollywood auto-focus. They contain a spark of non-conformity that keeps us coming back again and again, always eager for that fresh and original view.So why make a movie that looks, acts, and feels like the standard Hollywood B movie? There's never a scene where the players cast off their self-consciousness to take ecstasy in the creative process. This film examines a rather large group of friends in the movie industry; most that are paired just a bit too conveniently. There's the obligatory set-up scenes of potential tension and disharmony, centered on Joe and Sally's sixth wedding anniversary celebration. It becomes apparent (and pretty quickly, too) that all the guests have their own issues they've brought, together with the gifts.The evening plays a bit like All About Eve, complete with bedroom confessions, kitchen confidentials, and poolside revelations. If only there was even a fraction of the tension and drama! "},{"Title":"Music","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Criticized for being voyeuristic, I ask what else is movie watching? I would've loved to go to this party. Especially when they... well I don't want to spoil anything, but let's just say that the scene @ 10240 is one of the best of the genre I've seen on film, and the music perfectly captures the ambiance of the moment. BTW it is Michael Penn's Nothing Like Us. Well, I guess I better blab some more since this site requires ten lines of text to get a posting in and I can promise you I'll never post again because the last thing we need is more bland filler info in this world full of too much information. There 10! "},{"Title":"How the other half lives.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't for the life of me understand why this movie is rated as highly as it is. Was it the worst movie I've ever seen? No. It was, however far from the best. I think this movie would be interesting to those who work in the film industry, an actor, director, etc. But to everyone else, this movie comes off as extremely pretentious and preachy. I felt like the basic message of the movie was Hey, we actors lead really difficult lives, and you should feel bad for us. What this film forgets is that everyone has trials and tribulations, that's life. One of my favorite movies is Lost in Translation, which also is about an actor unhappy with life. However the great thing about LIT is that the main character actually does other things besides moan and groan about how awful his life is. very funny, entertaining movie, unlike AP. Basically, my complaint about this movie is that there was an endless amount of unnecessary drama over problems in the character's lives, and the problems weren't even that bad in comparison to what some people go through. What's more, I found all the characters annoying and completely selfish. If you are able to relate to the characters, you may enjoy this movie, however I found it impossible. Not for me, I'm afraid.-Heidi "},{"Title":"You can't do yourself in! Kids just rob you of that option!","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When you get the opportunity, as this movie gives you, to peek into the lives of others, you generally find that they are not terribly different from your own.You have the same problems with neighbors, the same insecurities about your relationships, the same difficulties in dealing with friend's disappointments, and the same neuroses.We spent some time getting to know the guests at the party which was essential, and it was enjoyable watching them interact with each other. They may be actors, directors, producers, writers, etc., but they are basically people just like us.Then came the real party after they took ecstasy. Then those insecurities and neuroses and hidden feelings really came out.The film was funny, tender, and a thrill to watch. An indie that presented an outstanding ensemble of great actors that made you feel right at home, even if you felt a little creepy peeking in on them. "}{"Title":"Well done and different","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Jason-Leigh and Kevin Kline, as well as Allan Cumming stand-out in their variegated roles.Basically a reality fiction tale, wherein the neurotic problems of actors and directors, as well as other assorted players in the film industry.A story like this could seem narcissistic, but thanks to excellent performances by the above-mentioned, it is rather unique and interesting to watch unfold.Gwyneth Paltrow also has a cameo role. Normally, this type of story cannot garner sympathetic characters for an audience, but I was impressed that the actors each brought a nuance or believability to their roles here, and this is well worth watching. 8/10. "},{"Title":"How bad was this movie?","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How bad was this movie? I tend to like chick flicks, especially comedies. This one wasn't that much of a comedy and may not have been primarily a chick flick. On the other hand, I don't like action movies with shooting and explosions unless they are comedies. For the two hours before this movie began, I was watching a dramatic film (few laughs) about a soldier going undercover to expose a colonel's demented form of justice. I liked that one better than this one.What positive things can I say about this movie? If I was going to write a user comment, the summary was going to be At least the music was good. That was only true until about 430. The movie started at 4 and lasted until 6, and after 430 I heard only two songs I liked, one in the closing credits. Most of the music before 430 was big-band style jazz, or something related. I really enjoyed it.I suppose the friends reading poems and singing bad songs (the singers weren't great either) to honor the hosts was pleasant enough.I did like Skye. No wonder, it was Gwynyth Paltrow!Other than what I have said, I just found the whole thing unpleasant. For those who enjoy poetry and acoustic guitar accompanying meaningful lyrics at coffeehouses, and those who truly appreciate Woody Allen, and those who like independent films, and those who actually enjoy subtitles, I believe this might be a worthwhile movie. It seemed to have quality writing and acting, and of course lots of big-name actors, none of whom I would know just by seeing them. I didn't even know until five minutes ago that Gwynyth Paltrow was in it!This film just wasn't for me. "},{"Title":"Not mom and dad's anniversary party","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason-Leigh are Joe Therrian and Sally Nash, a successful novelist and actress throwing The Anniversary Party in this 2001 film written and directed by the two stars. Other guests include Kevin Kline, Phoebe Cates, Jennifer Beals, John C. Reilly, Parker Posey, Jane Adams and Gwyneth Paltrow. Cumming and Leigh play a couple celebrating their sixth anniversary, though they have been estranged and are just getting back together. Problems arise almost immediately - Joe has been hired to direct the screenplay of his novel and wants a young actress (Paltrow) to play a role everyone assumes is based on and intended for Sally. He invites the actress to the party, making Sally furious. Then the neighbors have to be invited (John Benjamin Hickey and Posey) because of an ongoing fight over Joe and Sally's dog Otis barking and enraging the neighbors. As the guests start to arrive, we see some interesting dynamics forming a married couple (Adams and Reilly) who have just had their first baby and left him with a sitter; she's a neurotic, nearly anorexic working actress and he, the director of Sally's latest film, is unhappy with Sally's performance; a close friend of Joe's (Beals) who's a little too close to him and disliked by Sally; a married couple (Kline and Cates) who bring their two children to the party (Kline and Cates' real-life children) - he's Sally's costar and she gave up show business, etc. When the ingénue arrives with Ecstasy, the party takes a turn, and it's not for the better.This is an interesting film, helped greatly by the acting and the relaxed, almost improvisational feel of dialogue. Leigh and Cumming are cognizant in their writing and direction that this is Hollywood, where people are more self-absorbed and overdone than the norm. When Sally and Greta (Cates) have a huge discussion about child-bearing and Joe's inability to grow up, you can't take it seriously - they're both on Ecstasy and have the intensity of two high-schoolers, where everything is the end of the world. The scene is deliberately that way - they're on drugs. When Joe tells Sally he never considered her for the part in the movie because she's too old, we know it's a sore subject he didn't want to bring up. Meanwhile, the uptight, non-show biz neighbors watch the activity in amazement, the wife wanting to belong, the husband, a recovering alcoholic, afraid that she does. The film ends abruptly with nothing really resolved. The end of the film becomes a mini-version of Long Day's Journey Into Night, and, almost like that famous play, one gets the feeling that after this night of Ecstasy, overwrought emotions and devastation, it will all begin over again today.Everyone is excellent, and that's not to say they're particularly likable. Jane Adams, Mel of Frasier fame leaves you wondering if she'll make it to the baby's first birthday; Kevin Kline, as usual, gives one of the best performances as a handsome leading man who has a window available for Joe's film; Jennifer Beals gives her character a nice, Hollywood intensity, making the most of lines like he's magnificent when he's with you. Paltrow is perfect as the airhead ingénue, fawning all over Sally and saying exactly the wrong things (I've watched your movies since I was a little girl) and floating around on another plane. Riley, Posey, and the rest of the cast are uniformly strong.Cumming is surprisingly believable as Sally's husband. Greta refers to him as sexually ambivalent, and he pulls that off rather than seeming completely gay - he is most famous for his wonderful performance in Cabaret as the emcee - but it's obvious he's capable of more variety. The beautiful Jason-Leigh is sensational - she plays a woman who's a movie star at a time when the cameras aren't rolling, and with her interesting look and penetrating eyes, you can believe it. She's determined to make a go of it with her husband, but she has doubts - that's there too. She and Cumming pull out all the stops as the emotions and situations careen downhill.One quibble I have is the age issue of Sally being uncastable in a role calling for her to be in her twenties. I saw Jason-Leigh in Proof, where a big deal is made in the script of the character being 25. No one in the audience, myself included, realized that Jason-Leigh was, in fact, at 39, the oldest actress to have played it on Broadway. Even on film, she doesn't look 39 - in fact, in my opinion, though Paltrow was dressed more youthfully and wearing her hair younger, she looked much less vibrant than Jason-Leigh and, unlike Jason-Leigh, wasted. This was a conceit in the script that would have been better had the age of the character in Joe's novel been more like 18. Everyone knows with the right lighting and the right cast around someone, they can easily look younger.All in all, a good movie showing the miserable lives of the rich and famous, something poor folk like myself never mind watching. "},{"Title":"Very theatrical film","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this art-house gem last night for the first time and I really marveled at how much this film was like the art-house films made in the later 60's to mid-70's. It reminded me of the types of parties that the cool students parents used to have in that time period. You have to listen to this film for the language, rather that watch it for the action like a comic book movie or summer tentpole movie. It brought back memories of Boys in the Band, Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe, A Delicate Balance, and The Big Chill, all of which I saw during my college days at the Student Union. A film well done that was both happy and disturbing. That's how it should be. "},{"Title":"Party Poopers!","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this on IFC last night. One poster on the MB explained to another poster that the movie serves as a take of how seriously the Hollywood 'citizens' take themselves to the point where they can't function in their own lives without something industrial. So what does that say about Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh, who were responsible for this pretentiousness? We're whiny, indulgent, self-absorbed, elitist twerps, but we KNOW that we're whiny, indulgent, self-absorbed, elitist twerps? Okay!Cumming and Leigh as a couple was even more laughable than Cumming admiring the flat-chested Gwyneth Paltrow's great t*ts! With the Latina help absconded in the kitchen as though they had been grounded, their lily-white employers and lily-white guests play games, jump in the pool, and get blasted on Ecstasy while spewing the most insipid filth within earshot of the kids one couple foolishly hauled along with them!Steve Rhodes, whose reviews I usually agree with, called the scene in which Phoebe Cates tells Leigh that once you have children, you can't commit suicide because kids rob you of that option a bitingly true commentary on parenthood; I call it idiotic! Ernest Hemingway, Sylvia Plath, Kurt Cobain, Diane Arbus were parents, and they committed suicide!If I were the dog, I would have ran away from this house, too! "},{"Title":"Anniversary Party- You Don't Have to Save the Date on this One *","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming both wrote and directed this mess.An anniversary party is supposed to be one of joy but this is anything but that.A whole host of people come to celebrate-that is with their frustrations as well.Cumming is an up and coming Hollywood director who has just casted Gwyneth Paltrow to appear in his next film. She will essentially, as Sky Davidson, play Miss Leigh, his wife in the film. We are also supposed to believe that Paltrow, a blonde beauty, has just completed the film Babi-Yar, a holocaust film, where she plays a milk-maiden who takes a bullet to the head. She is named Gitel but this far from Fiddler on the Roof.When the dog Otis got lost, I thought we were going to go back to A Come Back Little Sheba atmosphere. In fact, I was right. While searching for the dog, Leigh finds Cumming in the arms of another and reveals that she has an abortion. Leigh looks simply awful in the movie. She really appears to be on drugs-the latter kills Cumming's sister, Lucy, at the end of the film.With all this going on, we have Kevin Kline, who portrays an actor who has just won the Oscar and John C. Reilly, who survives a drowning.Against the music of charades, that game is played. What is the purpose of all this? How do you invite your neighbors to such a party when you have been feuding with them regarding their constantly barking dog?The film is absolutely ridiculous at best. "},{"Title":"Not the ordinary writing","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anniversary Party does not take the directions that ordinary Hollywood party movies would take. Rather, each character reveals a possible stray and then continues with their usual path. It was interesting to note that a party of this sort could actually end on a positive note, given that almost everyone pushed themselves outside their usual comfort zone. It is my opinion that with so many talented and known actors, it is difficult to bring what could be chaos into focus, making a movie well worth watching. I definitely recommend this for all those tired of the mainstream movies and looking for something different and interesting. "},{"Title":"Politically incorrect party that becomes a mess.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Written, produced and starring Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming. Joe(Cumming)and Sally(Leigh)throw a party to celebrate the ending of a year apart and their 6th wedding anniversary; and currently going through the motions of wanting to start a family and a move to London. Some of their closest friends past and present plus their neighbors are invited to this gathering. One of those attending is an actress(Gwyneth Paltrow)starring in Joe's novel turned into a movie. Sally is an actress herself and struggling with emotional matters. Friend Cal(Kevin Kline) and his wife(Phoebe Cates)are among the invitees.The party really starts to lose control at the get-go. Jealousies, politically incorrectness and bickering neighbors make the party awkward. As the party moves out to the pool and the mood elevating drug Ecstacy is passed around, diverse personalities watch this get-together spiral into confusion.This drama is also a cruel comedy and some may find this movie not even worth watching for two hours. I really enjoyed Leigh, but thought Cumming annoying as hell. Not really being a Paltrow fan...I found her very interesting. The cast also features Parker Posey, Jennifer Beals, Jane Adams, Denis O'Hare and John C. Reilly. "},{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The characters are mostly interesting and well drawn, even if a lot of them are irritating, and the film is very funny at times. Some of the one-liners are great, and there is an authentic Hollywood insider type of humor that is pretty rare in movies. The scenes where the guests all pay tribute to the main couple were very warm and fun to watch, almost like the viewer is there at a real party with the actors. But it is undoubtedly a self-indulgent movie and often boring. It is very stagy-- like a filmed play, and the acting is suitably hammy. Kevin Kline and family are great, and also the people who play the neighbors. Gwyneth Paltrow plays a hippie-dippy actress, which is not a stretch, but she's enjoyable too. However, the leads, especially Jennifer Jason Leigh, aren't up to par with the rest of the cast. Leigh does her depressed Dolores Claiborne shtick, except she's a famous actress this time instead of a journalist. She's not convincing-- I was often uncomfortably aware that she was acting, probably because she was OVER-acting, and she seemed very self conscious. Maybe it was the stress of both directing and starring in the film. But that aside, the film is worth it if you're a movie buff-- there are a lot worse out there-- and also if you're a fan of the actors involved. "},{"Title":"Lack of drama","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While enjoyable, and entertaining, I feel this movie relied too much on breadth so that one wonders what is happening in the movie because so much is. The narrative thread is the relationship of the lead couple. The work of Alan Cumming and JJ Leigh is interesting to watch. However it is a bit scattered. A bit too much true to life, ala my best friend Phoebe Cates, and the lines delivered - are they scripted or ad lib and does it matter? Yes, because the audience wants to know where you are taking us with this. Too many beautiful people with their poor, poor problems. They are nervous, lose their dogs, etc. All in all, it lacked something and I'm not sure what it is. But it's worth a look. "}{"Title":"You're just jealous!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Honestly what is with the responses to this movie? It's not as though living in l.a. Mary comes in contact with celebs at all, sure the mindset is here but I think people are aware of what it's like if only from many and various other movies. Things that are so L.A. by definition are things everyone is well aware of unless they watch no tv or movies. Can't these viewers see that the anniversary party unmercifully and incisively exposes these, get over it, frail and very human characters in extreme circumstances?This is a great movie! It's so funny. Ok the plot or the denouments (sic) are a bit heavy and let's act oriented. So what? They're actors and I think it is sort of brilliant for that reason, that things get suddenly so ridiculously turgid even in terms of the external circumstances of their lives, well which aren't that anyway. It's not like people get smacked by fate.The director's commentary is fun and informative. Jennifer, dear dear Jennifer, and once she looked at Mary at Off Vine restaurant, oh god, and Alan are really intelligent and I learned a lot. Always do three takes; it doesn't take that much more time. advises Jennifer. Always! Always! I swear it! I didn't listen to all of it though. I've never listened to all of a director's commentary.The making of a scene included on the dvd will also deepen your appreciation of the thought that went into the direction. It's very educational to hear from the cinematographer, which one rarely does in this silly auteur! auteur! world. One must definitely check it out after seeing the movie. Lawrence Elbert once told Mary instead of going to film school he should just listen to director's commentaries. I wish there would also be as a matter of course writers' and cinematographers' and even editors' and musicians' commentaries dammit.I'm suddenly reminded of a remark AC makes on the dvd about how yoga is a way for people in l.a. to show that they have their spiritual mojo in place or whatever (he and JJL do yoga themselves and their real life yoga teacher plays the yoga teacher). There's an instance in which maybe in middle america a little bit of the reality of the humor of the scene is lost but none of the entertainment value! Yoga studios are like McDonald's in l.a. only instead of hefty hideaway customers going in and out it's all the gorgeous l.a. monsters.And whoever put the text up happened to hit on the one part I often find myself thinking back on, when Phoebe Cates is warning JJL of the likely outcome of things. That scene is so funny! What can you say about the cast. Best not to even get started.On the commentary there was one thing I found a little disturbing, but now it makes sense.  J and A explain that the neighbors are supposed to represent the film audience. I felt that was snobby, like why wouldn't the audience identify with the other characters? I get it a little better after reading the reviews that could have been written by the neighbor husband. But to me they're all just people really well drawn. And clearly not 'everyone' in this movie is a mess, for instance the Phoebe Cates character.Anyway I kept thinking Robert Altman must be so proud and Alan Rudolph and tra la la I loved this movie dammit.  "},{"Title":"A Love Letter to L.A.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie countless times and I think it's fantastic. Perhaps you have to live in Los Angeles and/or be connected with the entertainment industry to fully appreciate this film, but the characters are pitch-perfect. After watching this, I often feel exhausted, as if I've actually attended this party. I put this move in the same category as I do 'Permanent Midnight' and 'Laurel Canyon' -- (sometimes) harsh but loving tributes to L.A. and the industry. "},{"Title":"hollywood should stay true to it's self and never attempt to be deep.","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film very shallow and self indulgent.  Not only did Cummings and Jason Leigh, write and direct this film, they also starred in it.  I suppose this film was a window into the real lives of hollywood starlets, oh good god.  Is the viewer supposed to pity any of the characters?  Is it not their own fault that they are so plastic and empty, are they merely a product of the world they are a part of?  Modern film is void of meaning and messages, we should stop looking for them and wasting good film and trying to make them. "},{"Title":"A contempo WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF?, Hollywood style, and with enough humor and balance to make it a winner.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surprisingly incisive view of Hollywood relationships centering on a couple's anniversary reunion after a brief but bitter separation.  While the neuroses are less than subtlely developed, it all comes to a marvelously brittle head that openmindedly delivers on the couple's central dilemma.  Mean-spirited fun.    "},{"Title":"All Star Cast in need of a script consultation, but worth a viewing","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS  A truly wonderful assemblage of actor/ress talent.  Everyone played their part to a T, small problem....no plot, and anything they tried to develop as a conflict/plot, they forgot about...and thus, I too wanted to slap Leigh's character, or wish the fat dude drowned, when I found out all this shocking news, that had little set-up... if that indeed was the plot.. in my opinion.  If you like character analysis movies.. which many do.. then you'll love this.. but if you crave story...get stoned and you might still like it.  I wasn't mad that I saw it.. and loved the fact that they did it on their own.  I look forward to subsequent productions, as I think Leigh is a wonderful encasement of human emotions, and the rest of the cast is..in a word BRILLIANT in their own right.   "},{"Title":"I Really Liked It","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite some of the negative critiques of this movie I have to stay true to my original feeling that I really liked this film. I saw it in the theater and walked out not knowing what to make of it and then I saw it again on cable and liked it even better. I felt that the party scenes and dialogue's were about as natural as I've ever seen in a movie. I kept thinking how much I would have enjoyed being at this party. The neighbors showed a good contrast between the hip hollywood crowd and the rest of us. The wife was so fascinated by these people in the same way that America is fascinated by hollywood. The husband was less than impressed and despite his crudeness and likability issues was effective as the voice of reason. It was great to see art imitating life with jennifer jayson leigh and phoebe cates who I imagine met and became friends doing fast times at ridgemont high. I still wonder if that's correct. It was also so sweet to see the Klines with their real life children. I also wonder as another comment pointed out if indeed she did give up show biz for motherhood. It would seem so and that also makes me curious to know whether or not she regretted that decision. The relationship between Sally and Joe as dysfunctional as it was portrayed in the movie is one way to show real life love, that's not always nice, pretty, and sweet, but sometimes will just rip your heart out. I felt their performances were top notch. The scene with the extasy. What can I say. It was fun, different, unique, and something I'd never seen before and on a personal note extasy is one drug I never tried but was always curious about so I guess you can say I got to live vicariously through this film. "},{"Title":"The Player on Ecstacy","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Uptight, two-dimensional Hollywood hypocrites loosen up with some Ecstasy. Unfortunately, the movie becomes overwrought towards the end, with one catastrophe piling on top of another. I was surprised the house didn't catch fire at the climax, which really became an anticlimax as yet more things go wrong and the befuddled party comes to a weary end. But no amount of contrived tragedy could force the film in to a somber Festen mold. Worth watching for the Ecstacy bit. Too bad they didn't stick with it. "},{"Title":"Way too similar to All About Eve","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In many ways I enjoyed this movie, as I am a fan of most of the actors who appeared in it. However, I was also disappointed as I found this movie to be an updated version (drugs, language) of a much better film, All About Eve, which was voted the best movie of 1950. The topics which were explored, the plot and sub-plots and the dynamics surrounding them were pretty much the same as in All About Eve, so no new ground was broken and it was therefore a very derivative film.  "},{"Title":"Great cast, wasted talent","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're familiar with the work of Parker Posey, Alan Cumming, Jennifer Jason Leigh, or Kevin Kline, it may surprise you to know that so much talent could result in such a *horrendous* film. None of the characters are likable (with the exception of the dog). Another reviewer described this film as self-indulgent and they were right. It's Jason-Leigh and Cummings movie, and while they both shine in other films, they bite off more than they can chew with this film. Gross overacting and ego-stroking abounds. Sure, it has it's moments (Gwyneth Paltrow, probably unknowingly, plays a parody of herself, and Jane Adams steals the show as a neurotic, frazzled new mother). My advice is If you like Alan Cumming, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Parker Posey or Kevin Kline, DO NOT watch this film, it will ruin them in your mind forever.  "},{"Title":"Ok! But does not ring bells!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say `I do' think that `The Anniversary Party' was quite an engaging film. The film is about the sixth anniversary party of a just-reunited hollywood couple who invite all their movie biz friends (or in other words the scientology society) to celebrate with them. The movie is set in a 24-hour span (which is the length of most real life hollywood marriages). The guests of this party were the life of the party. Co-stars Gwyneth Paltrow, John C. Reily, Kevin Kline, Phoebe Cates, and Jane Adams brought a little bit of ecstasy to the film (in more ways than one). Alan Cumming & Jennifer Jason Leigh starred, wrote, and directed `The Anniversary Party'. Their gift to us in this anniversary was their ambiguous screenplay. However, what should have been forgotten in this anniversary was their unsettled direction.   Even though its not the greatest of parties, I do recommend you open your house and invite yourself to `The Anniversary Party'. *** Average  "}{"Title":"THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT HOLLYWOOD IS LIKE, BUT WE AREN'T LIKE THIS. REALLY.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another reason to believe that old Hollywood saw nobody-knows-nothing. Cummings and Leigh go on and on on the dvd commentary track about the ins and outs of the script and how much Leigh's screenwriter mother helped them - God what a load of BS. This self indulgent mess says more about Hollywood than it thinks it does - it's a little too revealing. The actors are ACTING here - I didn't believe a single word in the film though it was full of actors I like. Wasn't there another way to get these characters to reveal themselves? The old ecstasy/truth serum bit is lame. And Cummings as a sort of ladies man is hilarious - I know a lot of married women who'd go for a guy with all those little braids. I bet they all told each other how wonderful they were and what a relief it was to work on something small and smart. And I bet Cummings and Leigh are trying to line up their next project and waiting for a greenlight and I bet they'll get it because once you get in that club you join one large backslapping, self-congratulatory daisy chain. "},{"Title":"6/10 I was hoping for more","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nice acting and all, but its a little dull for the first 45 minutes, and then it just gets silly.  I didn't care for really any of the characters. While I watched the film, the only thing I could think was, jeez these hollywood types are real jerks.  I was happy they weren't my friends.The Leigh and Cumming argument is amazing. "},{"Title":"If you like slice of life films, this one's for you","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  And I do like slice of life stories and films so I really enjoyed this one. I've read many of the other reviews and disagree with those few who hate it or found it boring; we have different tastes. This isn't a typical film with an obvious story line and conclusions (as, say, was Capt. Corelli's Mandolin which I liked far less).  I came out of Anniversary wondering for a bit what the film was about, was there some message or meaning?  Hey, that's not bad, is it?  -- that you have to think a bit?It reminded me most of slice of life stories I used to read in the New Yorker magazine.  We meet Sally and Joe as they prepare for an anniversary party and the guests as they arrive.  The film covers the next 8-10 hours.  During it, we find our views of many of the people -- Sally & Joe especially, but also many of the others -- changes, becomes more complex, sometimes changing several times.  Perhaps a message of the film is, if one is needed, that you can't judge a book by its cover or 'it takes a while to get to really know someone.' We're left imagining what most of the threads were before the picture started -- and what they'll be after.  And that's it.   No bombs, no jets, no crashes, and no computer simulations. No special effects.  Just fine ensemble acting of this slice of life.  I saw nothing out of character; everything was psychologically consistent within the characters.  All in all, really kind of nice.   "},{"Title":"Unexpected Power, Insightful Film","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this after a film I was trying to see was sold-out, I had the time, what the hell. I was really surprised. Full of terrific actors (Jane Adams - so good in Happiness), John C. Reilly - (brilliant in Hard Eight), Cummings, Leigh, etc. The film works, has very insightful moments in the complexities of relationships and some real laughs. There a few self-indulgent moments where you could tell the actors/directors  Cummings, Leigh were so in love with their stuff that they kept it in. At times, the acting becomes ACTING, some real arm-waving, over the top action, but at other times it has a documentary feel in it - like you are really eavesdropping at a party in Hollywood. Very well done. "},{"Title":"the anniversary party","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the life of a screenwriter gets particularly frustrating, lonesome, maddening and pointless, he consoles himself with the belief that despite it all, movies begin with The Writer, and that he (or she) is the progenitor of everything that is Hollywood.The Anniversary Party is a film that challenges this belief.  It's a movie without a writer.To quote The Player  If we could just get rid of the actors and directors, we'd really have something.Yes, I know, there are writers credited on the film, and there have been assurances that this was not, as you might guess, an improvised movie.But this is undoubtedly a film written by actors, for actors, about--well, I'll give you one guess.Which is not to say that it's all bad.  Great actors create amazing moments out of thin air.  And The Anniversary Party is filled with great actors.But unfortunately, the result, as you might expect, is not a story.  It's nothing more than a collection of nice moments.  The ending is packed with big events meant to generate a cathartic feeling.  But the movie isn't built right--it's not written well, and the climactic scenes end up landing awkwardly as a result.If you don't expect much beyond genuine, quirky moments...If you thought Magnolia was a great film...If you have a lot of patience and if you're willing to sympathize with rich, neurotic people--then you'll probably like this movie, and there's nothing wrong with that.If you'd like to see an ensemble movie with great writing, see the Big Chill again.Speaking of The Big Chill   Kevin Kline is one lucky SOB.  Phoebe Cates is a goddess.   "},{"Title":"Fabulous, fabulous film","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is easy to see how people might be turned off by a movie such as this. Like 'the Big Chill' or even 'the Royal Tennenbaums' it is a movie that is almost completely character driven. Not a lot happens, but rather it is a stunning portrayal of relationships within a tight group with a couple of outsiders hanging around for the ride. I love JJL and Alan Cumming, but the other characters are the ones I feel make the movie work so well. Especially Parker Posey and Jane Adams, the latter having I feel the best role in the film. Claire is neurotic and unbelievably hilarious. Not only is the film totally believable, but the characters are constantly being stripped away to reveal what is truly happening, and what truly happens to us all. We get caught up in relationships that have no clear definition and that require work and compromise to be able to survive. The acting, dialog, direction, mood and humour are all absolutely amazing. This movie works on all levels. At first I thought this was an 'actor's movie' but after showing it to friends I now think completely differently. Not only did they love it, but we have watched it again and again together, laughing and being amazed at what Jennifer and Alan have accomplished. Bravo! "},{"Title":"One of those you cannot stop watching","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is just throughly engaging.  I feel like I am there at a party that just seems to go on and on. Fortunately, I do not have these self indulgent, drug addicted people in my life.  Are all creative persons really this whacked?  I guess it is just voyeuristic and completely fun to watch. I like Gwenyth Paltrow's character.  She is trying to be complementary but is so unintentionally offensive.  She is also headed down the same road where she too will be exploited and discarded.  Soundtrack is interesting.  Would like to know more about the cut at the beginning of the pool scene which sounds like a castrato.Good film. "},{"Title":"The Anniversary Party (2001)","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title of this film is mildly misleading when one thinks of a party, he imagines celebration, entertainment, and -- above all -- fun. But The Anniversary Party (2001) offers none of the above. This isn't to say that it's a BAD film, but simply that it's different from what one might expect. Categorized as a dramedy, The Anniversary Party is more drama than it is comedy; while there are a few good laughs throughout, the over-all effect is one of misery. Directed by acclaimed actors Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh, The Anniversary Party tries to be a cross between Woody Allen and Robert Altman, but it has little of Altman's insight and even less of Allen's humor. The story is of a writer-turned-director (ironically played by Cumming himself, who gives HIS first shot at direction in the film) and his wife (an actress, appropriately played by Leigh) who are celebrating their sixth anniversary of marriage. The invited guests include Kevin Kline (as well as his real-life children), Parker Posey, Phoebe Cates, John C. Reilly, Jennifer Beals, and Gwyneth Paltrow. With such a cast, you might expect that Cumming and Leigh could do no wrong, but a fragile script manages to negate the picture's potential. While every performance is top-notch, the story suffers from its lack of any plot direction -- not to mention its lack of the audience's interest. Every role is written as a mere caricature, and in the end, none of them have really managed to gain our full involvement. Unlike an Altman picture, there isn't equal development of each character, so as a result, half of them turn out to be entirely superfluous. Also, there are some scenes that just don't fit with ANYthing -- especially one involving a drowning during an ecstasy trip. Perhaps the BIGGEST crime perpetrated by Cumming and Leigh is their tragic underuse of the immensely talented Parker Posey, who steals every shot she's in -- in spite of the fact that she's always marginalized. But there are a few shining moments in this mess of a film Jane Adams (Happiness) is terrific as a full-blown neurotic, John C. Reilly gets a chance to prove himself as an actor withOUT the brilliance of P.T. Anderson (for a change), and -- as always -- Paltrow is a treasure. The direction is rather impressive for two first-timers, and when you ignore its many flaws, the screenplay does feature some snappy dialogue. But it never really adds up to a coherent whole, and I doubt that I would ever recommend it to anyone. The Anniversary Party is kind of like a sub par Woody Allen film while not necessarily bad, you'd expect better considering the source. Here's one final thought considering the countless similarities between the characters and the actors who portray them, what if each actor in the film played himself, and it was filmed as a mockumentary satirizing the supposed high-life of Hollywood stars? Now THAT would be a party worth checking out. As for this one, you're better off sticking to the real thing check out Altman's The Player or Allen's Deconstructing Harry instead.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Interesting characters in search of a script and direction","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't find the writing in this movie extraordinary in the slightest. There are some interesting conversations, but I have interesting conversations with my coworkers that honestly would be as entertaining or profound on film. I really feel that this movie is too self inulgent. I really like the cast, and I saw potential in these characters, but it just didn't add up at all. A sparse, simple movie like this really has to get a person to think about the characters. It really needs to ask questions, and at least give us some reason to latch onto something. I just didn't see it. I see how people could like this movie simply because of the great cast and the potential that could have been realized, but it just didn't come together. "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find this film really dull. The first half of the film was a test of endurance. Really. It was plain get-to-know-each-other talk, there was really no story. The only scene watchable was the scene where Cumming & Jason-Leigh argued. That was the only good scene that made me feel worth my time. "}{"Title":"really bizarre","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not sure if this was supposed to be a comedy or a drama --- it was one of the weirdest movies I have seen in years as i did not know how to interpret it.  Are they or are they not a happy couple? What is the deal with his relationship with sister? Is it really an inside joke that Phoebe Cates states that she gave up her career to raise her kids?The photography on the wall is amazing --- Jennifer Beals should truly be a photographer --- the Kline kids are adorable, Jennifer Jason Leigh should hire her sister more often as she has more talent than she does,  and Jane Adams is once again the best actress in the bunch, but I do not get this movie ---- too many stories in one film to digest in less than two hours (now, a tv series it would have been great as!)  "},{"Title":"Skip this party.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie hoping that it would eventually pick up speed and draw me in. It didn't. It was disappointing that, with a decent idea and a strong cast, the story could never catch or hold my interest. Thank goodness for the Klines (Kevin and Phoebe Cates, and their two children), who seem to be in a different league than the majority of the cast, and for John C. Reilly, who also stands out. If not for these few characters, the entire film would have empty. Still, these few cannot save this movie. I hoped their would be some twist at the end that salvaged something, but the credits just started to roll. Hopefully Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cumming will make another attempt, and it will make up for this bad party. "},{"Title":"Biggest Ass-Kissing Oh you are such a talent darling horror of all time","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are no words to describe this tedious ride through celebland. The plot is boring,the acting is over and the whole thing is just one celeb saying to another celeb Oh, gee, don´t you wanna be in my movie, I think you´re great. And there is nothing more foul than Gwyneth Paltrow acting she´s on acid. There is also a you have to do something for our anniversary-bit where the whole cast seperately performs a musical thingy which is the most boring I guess. Best to be VERY avoided. "},{"Title":"A fascinating analysis and a real treat","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has quickly become one of my favorite movies.  I have seen it a dozen time by now and I love it even more each time.  I don't really want to use very big words to say very profound things about it, I think, because it touches me on so deep of a personal level.  I believe that I can see quite clearly the artistic direction that these two have put into the movie, and I do find the story behind the thing to be particularly interesting.  For me, well I am one of those goofs who is intrigued by these personalities that play for us.  I do want to know what is behind the actor/actress and who they really are.  They spend so much time playing someone else, or bringing only certain aspects of their personality to the character, that I do want to know is underneath all that.  I don't think we get the whole story here, but I think we get a greater part of each person in it.  I've liked to piece together how each actor is related to the other in real life,  what stage or set they inhabited together and at what time.  I like very much the fact that the script was written to reflect each actor personally,  as to their quirks and mannerisms.  I like that each wrote their own toast to the celebrating couple.  I appreciate it in the way that actors are sometimes asked to compose a letter that their character would write because it will appear on camera in a shot.  But I realize that this isn't the story of these people, and I like the story as it is written because it's a critique of those same actors and of all those in the business, including how pretentious and privileged they are or can be.  It's not a let's get together as actors and make fun of actors who are not us, it's more about let's make fun of ourselves because we are ALL flawed in this world.  Jennifer and Alan both bring this up in the audio documentary during the yoga shots, that this is the way that people try to attain inner peace, waking up to this in the morning, but having it brought over to your house like a pizza.  They admit that this is their own yoga instructor, and though they like yoga very much, it is is a fad that everyone seems to enjoy these days as perhaps a status symbol.  This doesn't ring hollow to me at all.  Neither does the relationship that these two have onscreen as a couple.  It's an introspective look at all of these relationships,  especially about living and surviving as a couple in Hollywood when there is so much to tempt you to separate or explode.  I loved the part concerning the struggle between Sally and Joe on whether to have kids.  The tension over it, though unspoken, is almost palpable, and for different reasons (Joe's immaturity and Sally's terror over committing to the lifelong burden of children - though I would point out that she is very maternal with the other childen in the house, ,so maybe it's just that she wants Joe but Joe cannot be bothereed to settle down with her or kids that stops her from wanting them).  Throughout, wanting to solidify their relationship, they accept the notion that having children is the way to keep them together permanently.  As if when they have a baby they will even unwillingly always be attached in some way.  But, in the end, their true feelings come out in their actions.  They can believe all they want that it is the natural or correct thing to do in a marriage to have children, but they sabotage their own plans because they can't do anything but.  This is a fascinating story, actually.  I can't believe these actors pulled it off, but I'm so glad they did.  Kudos Jennifer, Alan, and all the cast!9 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Trite","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason for not having kids is because you cannot do yourself in? Maybe an intellectual possibility, certainly not something to be hysterical about. Just one of the examples when good acting didn't grow from material, as a result whole movie felt as an exercise in acting. Vapid Festen wannabe. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Rent something else...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie qualifies as one of the worst ever.  It was just painful to sit through this.  Are we actually supposed to feel for these people? Alan Cumming's portrayal of a spoiled English author-turned-director is horrible to watch and I can't say that Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance was much better.  Every scene was laboured and the improv was so pathetically obvious.  A well laid out, witty script would have made this film more watchable, but as is, it just stinks.  That whole you had to be there feel may work for the cast and crew, but it sure makes for a meaningless, tired and ultimately boring film. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but...","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the end it's just another get a group of conflicted people together and let them work through their problems flick.  Of course if you desire to be a quasi-frotteur and virtually rub elbows with Hollywood types you may watch this and delude yourself into believing you have some new-found insight.  The acting is, of course, self-indulgent.  Years ago when such affectation impressed me, I would have said it was emotionally charged, but I've changed since then. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I rented this movie the other night having heard mixed reviews but still curious.  Feel asleep about 40 minutes into it, waiting for something to get the least bit intriguing.  Figured that I may have been tired, so I watched the rest last night and fell asleep again.  I found nothing compelling except for the topless pool scenes and if that's all this film has to offer to you, it's not that worth it. "},{"Title":"it just goes on & on until you find yourself wondering, Why am I still watching this $%@# movie??","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Painfully slow, artsy film with boring, self-pretentious  characters who primarily focus on nit-picky things.  In other words, there's not much of a story here, but instead, an eavesdropping of how this person  relates to that person, and what p***es them off and what interests them and whom they admire and who they hate and why the wife is jealous of her husband's admiration for this other girl, and blah blah blah blah.....it just goes on & on until you find yourself wondering, Why am I still watching this $%@# movie?   ;) .....I imagine this film *might* only appeal to (gay) people in the movie biz, but is just annoying to the average film-goer.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best I've ever seen. Deep, succinct, funny, sweet, true. I love ensemble movies - or, maybe what I should say is that I love movies where every actor can act, and is given that opportunity by the director and the script. This was gorgeous. Think I'll write to the directors to thank them for their smarts and humor. "}{"Title":"Anniversary Gift? Fashion Consultant!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, dear!  The constraints of an indie budget have wrought havoc on the guests of THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY.  The oddly coupled Jen Jason Leigh and Al Cumming both seem to suffer from bad hair on their special day.  Leigh answers the door to guests looking like she just rolled out of her marital bed while Cumming sports a haircut that would make a Chelsea hairdresser gape!  Their guests are similarly hairbrush-deprived, with Gwenny Paltrow leading the uncoiffed pack - and attired like a hitchhiker direct from the PCH.  Only the two Latino housekeepers (one named America!) seem to even own mirrors.  Late in the party, Cumming abandons all pretense to heterosexuality and puts his hair don't into pig tails and dons a Boy London T shirt!  To compete, Leigh dolls herself up in the same down market glad rags Paltrow arrives in!  Lord!  What kind of Hollywood celebrities are these?!?      "},{"Title":"Who cares?","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the technical merits (and technical breakthroughs) that the film represents, I didn't care about most of the characters. And for me, that is key. I disagree that, as one reviewer said, we care about them even though we may not like or approve of them.  Compare this to the way Almodovar makes us care about the humanity of his characters even though they may do reprehensible things. These are spoiled, shallow, deceitful people who end the film having had no significant epiphanies about why they are so fundamentally unhappy (if they even have enough introspective ability to relaize it).  Tedious. Pointless. Waste of time and talent. "},{"Title":"Ecstasy","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was one moment in this movie when I was briefly roused from the the deep and distressing coma it had induced in me. That was the moment when the idiot in the main role administered ecstasy tablets to all of the dross he had invited to his house party and for one brief but profoundly optimistic moment it seemed likely they would all throw themselves in the pool and drown. To the detriment of the human race that, unfortunately, was not to be - and this quintessence of insignificance, so far up itself that it had clearly lost any sense of time, driveled on for a full hour more.What a waste - not of talent; of a movie-goer's time. "},{"Title":"Duller than watching the lawn dry","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't find much to say about this film. It was as dull as laundry day and filled with self important yet completely vapid people who cannot get along with anyone because they are all so concerned with themselves. They whine and moan and complain so much that after a while you'll feel like killing them all. It was made by Jennifer Jason Leigh, which to me is quite telling. This woman is regarded by many in Hollywood to be a great actress, which does in part explain why American movies are so awful. She is a dullard. Her name in the cast list of any movie is like a warning that a dull movie lies in store - and she MADE this one. I got the impression from the film that she thinks that it represents how people truly are and what real life is - but if for some reason she happens to be reading this, let me say emphatically to her that it does NOT. Of course it does paint a picture of her tragic little world of NY to LA movie types - but that is her problem, and there is a real life beyond Hollywood's artificial one (it's telling how these adults take Ecstacy, a kiddie drug that provides users with artificial emotions to go with their artificial lives). I do not want to be a part of that world and do not want to attend their parties, therefore I am sorry that I watched this. It might be a good wakeup call to anyone who dreams of movie stardom though. These people are so full of themselves because they are so empty of everything else. Actually I have to amend that statement - they are full of something else, though the twain may be hard to discern.This film, the type of people in it, and Jennifer Jason Leigh - they all deserve each other. I can't wait until Hollywood falls into the ocean. "},{"Title":"Anniversary party is not funny, but it's a joke","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was unbelievably lame. The script was terrible, the direction was just OK and the astonishing turn up of several great actors was nothing but an embarrassment. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Brit Alan Cummings joined forces to make this movie, and let me tell you their collaborative efforts do not payoff at all. First of all, the script was weak, from what I could gather these people were trying to go for a semi-dogma approach but fail miserably, the movie is not realistic, is embarrassing and the worst part is that, I am not sure if Alan Cummings is gay, but he can't play a straight man for all the money in the world. His marriage with Jennifer Jason Leigh was so phony, you could tell in the kissing scenes (between him and all the other girls in the cast) with girls that he was not all that comfortable, and when he was it was on a -girlfriend term, his gay mannerism is so eloquent that is hard to ignore the fact that his character is supposed to be a sorta womanizer or at least a man who is in constant relationshops. The worst part of the movie comes when they all drop acid, everyone starts acting retarded, and man you'll wanna laugh but not for the right reasons. This movie sucked. "},{"Title":"a piece of trash","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to believe that anyone who appreciates Hollywood would like this film, where apparently Jennifer Jason Leigh and Alan Cummings think that yelling and screaming the F word is art.Skip this one. "},{"Title":"A Party To Miss","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did watch all of this movie. I was excited to see a movie with Alan Cummings( he's great) and Kevin Kline, his wife Phobe Cates and the others. What a great cast. You would think , WOW this is going to be a good movie. It wasn't. It was very slow. I was very disappointed. I did stick with it hoping with such a great cast it would improve but in my opinion it didn't. It's not a movie I would watch again . My husband left the room,couldn't even finish it. "},{"Title":"Yada yada yada","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Anniversary Party is exactly that. A celebratory get-together of sundry Hollywood film industry types at the humble digs in the Hollywood Hills of a writer (Cumming) and actress (Jason Leigh).  The film sports a solid cast and is a good shoot. However, we the audience, sit with less than rapt attention as we watch the players play Charades, cavort about the pool, indulge in Ecstasy, etc. all the while blabbing incessantly about their sundry personal issues. The Anniversary Party is a good flick in need of a story with an audience in need of a reason beyond sheer voyeurism to watch it. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If anyone doubts the peculiar talents needed to write/direct an ensemble drama, you need only see Anniversary Party.  Limp dialogue, somnorific pacing, and a complete lack of vision destroy a powerful cast.  What can actors do, after all, when they have no lines, no artistic direction, and no editing?This movie is just awful.  And that, despite at least ten noble performances by one of the most promising crews ever assembled.I have a feeling that Jennifer Jason Leigh owes a lot of people a lot of favors after this. "},{"Title":"Tediously boring","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know which movie the other contributors saw, but this had to be one of the all time most boring movies of all time. I almost walked out during the charades scene. A few times during the film I heard a few laughs and I wondered just what movie were they watching? Good grief! I sure hope this isn't the best comedy Hollywood can produce. These producers should be ashamed of themselves.  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly bad in all respects.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was stunned that Jennifer Jason Leigh, who is one of our top actresses, would be involved with a production that was so inane, so poorly executed and visually looked so cheap.  How Leigh, who as an actress has never given an untrue performance, became involved with this project that does not have a single true emotional moment in it is a wonder.   The only delight is to view a quite interesting cast try valiantly to put some life into this inane script.  Jennifer Beals and Phoebe Cates actually are able to rise above the material despite how strongly it weighs everything down.  I went to see this to give shooting in video another chance, particularly since it was in the hands of John Bailey.  Even trying to accept that maybe a 'home video' look would suit the subject matter I was amazed at the degree to which video degredated the look.  Did the filmmakers get the irony of having beautiful black and white stills as central props but shooting them in video thus destroying their beauty?  The limitations of video shooting have never been more apparent.  This film should serve as an example of how far video still has to go before it is anything but the choice of last desperation.   "},{"Title":"Witty and smartly written","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film! I love movies about movies. Alan Cumming is a gem! Its all about this couple who having just gotten back together after separating decide to throw a bash for their sixth anniversary party. They've invited their closest dearest friends and their closest dearest enemies as well. I love this b/c I have been to many a parties like this and I'm sure you have too. A party to celebrate a happy occasion where there is SO much tension floating around in the air your lucky you can even breathe. Well, It all comes to a head when the young fun loving, and beautiful actress played by Gwyneth Paltrow breaks out the Ecstasy she brought as a gift. I can go on and on about Alan Cumming so I'll just skip on to Kevin Kline and his children, without whom I think the movie wouldn't have been as well received by me. There's a great scene w/ Kevin and his daughter performing a ballet about the married couples relationship. OK back to Alan, he's just cute in this movie. He plays a novelist, and they are turning his book about his rocky marriage to an actress (played by Jennifer Jason Leigh) into a movie but guess who's not getting the part of the wife! Thats right his wife! All in all This is a terrific movie very funny, clever, the performances are incredible (Parker Posey and Pheobe Cates) and the writing is insanely witty and smart. WATCH THIS ONE! "},{"Title":"An interesting look at celebrities.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *** out of ****Independent, low-budget movie about rising tensions among a group of celebrities at an anniversary party. And things only get worse when ecstasy is thrown into the mix. None of these characters are likeable, some are worse than others, but they're almost all interesting and almost all played to perfection by the big name cast. Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason Leigh do a great job acting, writing, and directing.  "},{"Title":"Even gifted actors are lost without a script and director","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are a lot of very good actors in this film. JJL empathises what happens when left to their own devices. Brilliant under good directing and with a rational script she is lost on her own. I know little of Cummings in spite of being English but I was little impressed. It was lovely seeing Phoebe Cates again in one of the few good pieces of acting (Ah!the swimming pool scene in Fast Times), this time she relied upon acting not her body..what a pity she did not persevere as an actress.. The whole thing is pretentious and a mess of mediocrity but there were some good cameos.  "},{"Title":"Someone else's party","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Imagine being at a party but cannot be seen or heard. You don't know anyone but you here them being introduced. The people talk about their lives and their personal problems. That is sure how I felt watching this movie. I did not see or hear anything much different from what I would expect at most parties.The movie might be gratifying for those with a need to spy on others.  "},{"Title":"Trite","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason for not having kids is because you cannot do yourself in? Maybe an intellectual possibility, certainly not something to be hysterical about. Just one of the examples when good acting didn't grow from material, as a result whole movie felt as an exercise in acting. Vapid Festen wannabe. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Talented cast sabotaged by thoroughly mediocre script","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to the anniversary party based on the caliber of the cast and a positive review.  What a disappointment.  Why should we care about a group of over privileged, wealthy, whiny show biz folks who (with the exception of one couple) have no concept of what it is to be happy.  The people in this movie are deluded and unsympathetic.On a personal note  I am adding Jennifer Jason Leigh to my list of movie killing actors whose films I will not go to anymore.   The others in this list are Jeremy Irons and Rafe Fines.  Mind you I'm not questioning their talent. They all are very skillled.  In fact, Leigh is always real and works very deeply.  Yet I find myself unmoved and not caring about her.  Like the others on the list, she is a ponderous, energy sucking vortex who is just no fun.     "}]