[{"Title":"Take 2","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Singleton did an excellent job portraying a young African American urban male, who is not a gang member or a street pharmacist. Jody is just trying to live. I thought the opening scene was very artistic, didn't love it though. I loved the relationship between Jody and his best friend Sweetpea. Both are trying to live but with different ways to do it. But despite differences, they both have each other's back. I liked Ving Rhames character as well (Melvin). Melvin showed that the street mentality never leaves a street thug, but he can learn to make better and more positive choices. His character showed that anyone can make it in life, once they have accepted who they are and where they are going. The women played strong roles as well. Not the typical cinematic role for a black woman either. Both Yvette and Jody's mother, Juanita, proved to be strong black women in their own way. Excellent movie, a little sluggish once or twice, but whose life isn't?! Singleton kept it true to the game. No one's life is truly cinematic, if it was then we wouldn't need cinema.  "},{"Title":"Baby Boy has value beyond stereotypes","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked Baby Boy.  But maybe that's because I'm as white as they come.  I've just read some other User Comments here, and whether John Singleton does or does not dish-up nothing but stereotypes about blacks, I won't debate.  Look, I totally dug this film because of other reasons.  While watching Baby Boy, I had two thoughts  1) that I don't relate to the 'black' culture presented, but 2) this didn't matter because I did relate TOTALLY to a lot of the issues at the core of this story.  Psychological and emotional issues about growing up, about cheating, about love, about undesirable characters working their way back into your life and screwing everything up.  And so on.  OK, I understand Users' complaints here about stereotypes, but I say to them, Don't worry about it... this white guy kind of thought the same thing, too, and so this movie didn't paint a picture for me of 'what all blacks' lifestyles must be.'  Dudes, all I saw were universal themes about, like I said, about love, about becoming a responsible adult, and all that.  White people go thru exactly the same shi.. stuff.  Those universal themes just happened to be wrapped up in some kind of black wrapping paper.  This viewer set that paper aside, and appreciated the gift inside.  This movie really pressed some emotional buttons with me, and I appreciated it.  And by the way, we white people don't assume that all black people see all white people as the characters we are presented as in films all the terrorists, rapists, mid-western nerd housewives, financiers, CEOs, trailer-trash, etc etc etc.  Why do (some of) you assume we think ALL blacks are as presented in films such as Baby Boy?  We don't.  Period.In fact, I could relate to the issues of this film's men AND women.  So, this script was universal in that way, too.  Anyway, here's all what I really wanted to say about this film  All these emotional issues were brought to life by EXCELLENT performances.  (I say Ving Rhames is one of our best actors working in America today.  He is consistently excellent; I never see him acting, I always only see him being his character.  And his performance here in Baby Boy was Oscar-worthy, if you ask me). I had no idea, until the ending credits, that Baby Boy was written and directed by John Singleton.  Honestly, while watching it (on cable) I was convinced that it must have been written by a woman, because it so perfectly expressed such poignant emotional moments.  Of course, the actors - and Singleton as director - can also share credit for those moments.  Also while watching, I had the thought that this is well-directed; who did this?  I guess my point here is and this comment may annoy some Users here that Baby Boy offers proof of Singleton's talents as one of those very good filmmakers who actually DESERVES the accolades critics and industry people give him.  Although, I never saw Higher Learning, which Users here say stunk.  Anyway, not the BEST film ever, but a solid 3 out of 4 stars.  Okay, one more word about the acting in this flick  I'm an actor myself, and many of the performances here made me LOVE acting... there were nice meaty scenes and speeches here, and always so well done that it made me proud to be an actor.  (Especially one monologue by Mr Rhames -- phenomenal, Sir!).  Bravo to all this cast.  Perhaps the best overall thing I can say about Baby Boy is that it left me wanting to see it again.   "},{"Title":"An intelligent and intensley emotional (including powerful) film by Singleton","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby Boy, the sequel-cum-remake of Singleton's last great feat Boyz 'N' the Hood, returns to the same neighborhoood 10 years later to look at new people in the hood, very personally at that, and it is fascinating.The film stars in a debut of Tyrese Gibson (some may remember Cuba Gooding got his first speaking role with Boyz) as Jody, a boy (age 20) who still lives with his mother, is the father of 2 children from 2 different mothers, has no real job and often just hangs about complaining and being spoiled.  The film looks at this character, but also the forces that sort of make him into what he is.  It is a really good character portrait that also has some really fired up performances from Ving Rhames, as a new ex-con boyfriend of his mother, A.J. Johnson as the mother, Omar Gooding (Gooding Jr.'s brother) as Jody's good friend, especially Taraji P. Henson in one of the best female performances of the year as Jody's girlfriend and also mother of one of his children, and of course, Snoop Dogg as a version of himself (albiet evil).  It's a delight from the streak of not that good movies out now, and it should be able to appeal to both black and white audiences.  Definately reccomended.  A- "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  R&B Crooner Tyrese takes a stab at acting in this realistic film about 'Baby Boy'  . He thinks he's a man... he's got 2 kids. But really, he's just a baby who doesn't want to leave the cosy confines of his momma's house. There's no actual real plot-line to this movie, it's basically just an excerpt from Baby Boy's life - detailing his relationships with his mother, his kids, his kid's mothers and his mother's new man. Rapper Snoop Dogg also appears in this, as a rather nasty-lookin ex-boyfriend of Tyrese's woman. Fine directing, strong acting, a good metaphorical element about him being in the womb and sly humour make Baby Boy a good watch... although those sexually inhibited might find this a bit strong! "},{"Title":"disliked the roles","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK. i respect Singleton's work in Boyz in the Hood and Poetic Justice.i was greatly disappointed with Baby Boy. i think we could start with the terribly racist and sexist roles represented by the main actors. some might applaud the work for showing the way things are but every perspective has a bias. his perspective is mirrored by racist and sexist thinking from the Moynihan report in the 60s suggesting that black males are children, and should be sent to war. his film echoes sexist sentiments that black women are the cause of black men's plight.the film did not challenge racism or white supremacy at any level, in fact conversely it coaxed the men to live up to the American dream of individualism. it just showed a few idiots trying to gain ground without a cent of integrity, strategy, or intelligence. it fed into stereotypes of black men and women as sexually overactive and temperamental. surrounding that theme was an animal-like, consumerist, macho-ism that speaks to black men as irrational, hormone-driven, dangerous and brutish. i must say the worst scene was the rape incident. for one thing this girl played the nagging role, another stereotype for black women, who actually never communicated with her partner. they yelled and had sex, but that was about it. why can't there be a movie where black people actually have a real conversation and understand one another instead of a dog-eat-dog fight? the longest conversation they had was about who had sex who when. which reminds me, the worst scene was when Jody hits his girlfriend, and then goes down on her. what was that about? mixing domestic violence with sex glamorizes and condones it. the girlfriend did not defend herself against her rapist. in fact she only cared about her child watching,not her own safety. instead of kicking him out, she complains to Jody in an effort to induce pity in him. bad acting, and a weak acting role combined.i don't believe that this portrays urban youth culture. the most pressing decision of these young people's lives was to find out who to have sex with, and if the person they cared about was cheating on them. it also portrays people driven by base desires who live within a fantasy exemplary in the neighborhood without cops, garbage in the streets, druggies or prostitutes, only and fresh lawns with plush green grass, and gardens. i think Singleton can do better. "},{"Title":"John Singleton at his very best!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love all of John Singleton's film ever since I seen his brilliant debut Boyz N The Hood which I was blown away by. When I heard about Baby Boy I was expecting a follow up to Boyz N The Hood but both films are very unique although some aspects are similar. Before I seen the film I wasn't expecting Tyrese Gibson to be that good because the late great Tupac Shakur was suppose to play the role of Jody but I was astounded at how good Tyrese is at acting. This also has to be the best film Snoop Dogg has starred in because some of his earlier efforts e.g. Urban Menace are just pitiful. I recommend this film to anyone who is interested in life in the hood or to people who like enjoyable dramas with good acting and dialogue. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The male characters were amoral and one dimensional, whose primary interest were sex, money, and violence.  The women were just as bad, but with a pinch of neediness. If this were the only film that a non-black viewed about African-Americans, they would have an entirely wrong impression of black people in America. There was not one level headed, clear thinking person in this whole movie. The mother came close, but was still a few bullets short of a full clip. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie very much, this is not another gang movie but a very good story about a boy who doesnt want to leave his mothers home, but when his mother gets a new friend, he must share the house. And having a kid and a girlfriend, will bring much problems. good acting of all of them, what makes this story believeble. And whit some humor, and a appearence of Snoop Dogg, i dont like his rappin, but he does this very nice. "},{"Title":"Great movie that combines drama, comedy, music and action.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby boy is a great movie that combines drama, comedy, music and action to convey meaningful social issues.  I loved the way this movie developed and the way the characters developed.  THere are about five parts that made me laugh hysterically outloud.  If you like John Singleton and great acting then watch this movie.  It is a pleasure. "},{"Title":"Couldn't Be More Ghetto If It Tried","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is not an uplifting film, nor does it try to be. A young black man trying to survive in the hood and dealing with the mess he created. The typical stereotypes abound. Unemployed, illegitimate child and crime. The main character is always conscious of the possibility of being killed on the streets. Part of the plot is that a part of him wants to escape, but he knows no other way to exist.You could sit in the passenger seat of a car driving through Compton or Watts, run a camcorder out the window for about 90 minutes and come up with the same thing.(Provided you survive the trip) There are a few strange twists in this film, such as the mother-son dynamic and the battle of good vs. evil featuring Snoop Doggy Dogg. "}{"Title":"This Baby Boy should have died from SIDS","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really, really hate this movie. I bought it based on my love for John Singleton's past films like Boyz N The Hood, Rosewood and Higher Learning. These were great films that I felt had thought put into them plus had a social commentary that was valid at the time of these films releases. Baby Boy not only lacks a conscious, it also lacks the realism that John Singleton's earlier movies had. I could say that I don't know why John Singleton made this film but I understand all too well. When John Singleton made Higher Learning,it received vitriolic reviews from pseudo-intellectual charlatans that label every film that dealt with issues race as propaganda. The rest of the masses just slept-on it or allowed clownish so-called hip hop ragazines like Jive...oops I meant Vibe magazine to persuade their opinions. So I understand why he would make brainless MTV-style fodder like 2 Fast 2 Furious, Shaft and Baby Boy. I believe he would have still made movies of substance like Higher Learning if Higher Learning was universally accepted(with all its flaws) and not universally panned.The whole story of the film revolves around Jody(Tyrese Gibson) and his problems in his life revolving his mother's new boyfriend Melvin(Ving Rhames), His baby mother Yvette(Taraji P. Henson) and his day to day struggle around making ends meet with his partner Sweetpea(Omar Gooding). Tyrese does a decent job as Jody but the character is flat out despicable. Now lets look at the characters of the main people in this film.Tyrese as Jody Irresponsible idiot that cheats on his woman and has another baby mother by the name of Peanut(Tamara Leseon Bass). He still lives with his mother and seems to think that is cool for a man his age to do that. He cheats on his woman and treats her like dirt. He is basically the sick caricature that Follywood promotes as the true definition of black manhood.A.J. Johnson as Juanita A mother that dresses like a Malibu hooker and tries to look cool at her age. She never pushes Jody to do anything with his life and gets into a relationship with a convict that grows weed in her garden and has no job.Taraji P Henson as Yvette a very naive young woman that sense that Jody is cheating on her and still sticks with him. She is given to fits of rage for the most simplest things and never talks to Jody with respect period.Ving Rhames as Melvin Stupid and psychotic former criminal that brags about his past misdeeds as if that was cool. He grows weed in his girlfriend's backyard and allows Jody to take the blame. He mumbles nonsense about bread and butter and has the nerve to wonder why Jody doesn't like him to date his mother. Hell, I would have let Hannibal Lecter date my mother over this fool any day! Omar Gooding as Sweatpea A numbskull that curses out the same girlfriend and her mother that allowed his stupid a** to stay with them when he had no place to go. He has no conscious and seems to do things out of impulse not logic.Now tell me, are these the people you want to spend two hours of your life with? Tyrese and Snoop Dogg were the most convincing of characters in this movie. and to say that Cuba Gooding Jr's cousin cant act is the least of his problems. Its not like Ving Rhames, A.J. Johnson, Taraji P Henson cant act but their characters are underdeveloped and poorly written Shouting and arguments turn into sexual situations and the most asinine scene in the movie has to be when Jody backhands Yvette after she punched him. He takes her to the room and proceeds to give her funnylinguis. WTF? That scene is still a head-scratcher till this day. I'll admit that I laughed at the scene where Jody and Sweetpea beat the hell out of a bunch of teenage punks that jumped Jody earlier but the laughter turned to disgust as soon as Sweetpea pulls out his belt and starts whipping the final victim for showing no fear.Closing comments Baby Boy is a mess and will set black cinema back a couple of years. Nobody with a conscious exist in Baby Boy. Nobody of sound Mind exists in Baby Boy. Boyz N The hood has Furious(Laurence Fisburne) to add insight to that film. Where is his equivalent in Baby Boy? Nowhere to be found. No insight went into this film. Just a bunch of despicable and ignorant caricatures . If you want see better movies from John Singleton see his earlier works like the movies I mentioned earlier in this review and forget that this overtly preachy joke exists if you can. "},{"Title":"The moral of the story","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Spoiler) So, the moral of the story is that you transition from being a boy into being a man by moving into your baby's mammas dilapidated apartment and sell stolen clothes on the streets, while probably still cheating on her.  Or is it that you become a man by killing another man?  Real good role model for young black men.  This movie had some good acting and realistic dialogue, but the story line was bad.  It's supposed to be a coming of age film, but you start with a loser that lives with his mother, and end with a loser who is mooching off of one of his TWO baby's mammas.  How did that term even become a real way to refer to relationships in black culture? That's a sad statement in and of itself. John Singleton should be using his influence to show stories of men who got OUT of the hood and became contributing members of society.  Someone tell John Singleton that selling stolen clothes is not a real job, and killing a man doesn't make you a man. 'Boys in the Hood' was a far better movie! "},{"Title":"What utter and COMPLETE garbage.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh my goodness.Movies like this, that are more pervasive than  rare in Hollywood these days, are the reason why The Cosby Show was seen as so 'unbelievable' in the 80s.This film is so FULL of negative, degrading and pitiful stereotypes that I am SURPRISED  that John Singleton was responsible for it.The oft-maligned film (at least here on IMDB) Higher Learning, was FAR superior to this crap. At least there was SOME intelligent dialogue and POSITIVE images.  This entire film was like an average black person's  nightmare and racists' wet dream.I have a friend who is trying to stake his claim in Hollywood right now, but I'm OH so GLAD that he hasn't sold his soul to appear in  utter crap like this.Hollywood makes no more Eve's Bayou's, but  plenty of Booty Calls, Undercover Brothers and  bile such as this flick.  The unfortunate truth is that THESE are the films that sell these days.  So as long as people believe and attempt to justify these modern day minstrel shows,  decent black cinema won't have a chance.For those of you who find irony in this in the wake of Halle Berry and Denzel Washington's (much deserved) Oscar wins this year, remember what they won them for A corrupt, evil, immoral black cop, and an ignorant, poor, single black mother.You know- Just like REAL life.Or is it?I say 'no', but then again.. who am I?  Just (yet another) disappointed black film goer. "},{"Title":"Singleton's best film.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Finally, Singleton makes a film that doesn't depict white people as racist bastards.  This picture focuses on young Jody, an unemployed, immature black single father who is challenged to grow up and find a way to support himself and his girlfriend, as well as his young son.Film is largely absent of violence, and also benefits from realistic dialogue and fantastic acting all-around.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for Baby Boy, I couldn't wait for it to come out. I kept telling my girlfriend how I thought John Singleton had come back with a sure hit. After seeing Baby Boy, I was so disappointed. It was boring and the storyline was weak. He basically depicted the blackman as being a low life and a no good petty thug. I am Latino and I wouldn't appreciate someone categorizing me as that. Also, the women in this movie where dragged through the mud. They were perceived as stupid and as having no respect for themselves. John Singleton seems to have run out of material as he had to resort to the same kind of movie that first brought him success. The movie could have done without Snoop Doggs part as it was a waste of time. Jody (Tyrese)did not change at all through out the movie. At the end he was still what he began as, a baby boy. Nobody grew or became a better person in this entire movie. It insulted Black people and is a poor excuse for an urban drama. I like that gangsta $*@# too but this was sorry. I admit there were plenty of laughs and the directing by Singleton was excellent but not enough to call this a good movie. "},{"Title":"Oh My Goodness!!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what an unpleasant mess. Not ONE intelligent, moral or otherwise responsible character in the entire film. John Singleton is certainly a competent director as he has proven with Boyz In the Hood and well, Boyz in the Hood. The Actors were all good to Above average. Especially Ving Rames and surprisingly Tyrese. The film was well lit and in focus. Technically the production was sound. The actual Content of the film was very disappointing at best - disgustingly condescending at worst. The main character is a very unlikable, 20ish, lazy, obnoxious jerk. His friends and family are not any better. His mother tries and often comes close to being an actual, honest-to-goodness, responsible Adult Person, yet ultimately falls short. Rames has the most interesting character (Too bad the movie was not about him), a hard-boiled yet childish and irresponsible as a father figure. Believe it or not each character portrays the negative stereotypes that racists have been spouting on about for decades. Why Singleton chose to portray all of these African-Americans in the 'hood as dim, shallow, dishonest, foul-mouthed, materialistic, sexually amoral and completely irresponsible is beyond me. They are nothing like the wide variety of real-life African-Americans that populate my world. There are many scenes in this film that I could only imagine would make the KKK proud. Why indeed! And by the way, when a criminal moves into your home uninvited-CALL THE POLICE!! A sad commentary on the state of the depiction of African-Americans in film. If John Singleton is willing to depict his community this way-then what will mainstream Hollywood sink to in the future? My heart goes out to those who bother to care. "},{"Title":"Baby boy not a day goes by...","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie deserves some recognition for a lot of reasons. First, the plot is very well written; there are interesting (and plausible) situations happening all the time, most of them showing aspects of ordinary lives. Every step characters do is justified, bringing realism to the film. Actors involved in this project are extremely professional-- and unintentionally hilarious--, with highlights to Taraji P. Henson, who surprised me. Yvette feels incongruent when allows Joe Joe standing alone in the same room as Rodney, but that may show the lack of responsibility she could have had. The main analogy between an immature man and a baby is quite smart, and everyone is capable to relate with such character. That happens because in current societies, it's getting longer and longer the time for the kids to leave parents' house. We all have the kangaroo syndrome, and it amazes me that in 2001 John Singleton could have made a movie with this subject. The only thing that I didn't enjoy was the poor acting coming from Snoop Dogg; it feels like he's just playing himself-- despite the violent behavior, which I have no information of. All in all, Baby Boy is a refreshing movie that I recommend to everyone who enjoys dramas and real life problems. "},{"Title":"It was Baby Boy...","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I actually liked Baby Boy...some people are being to harsh on the movie because they didn't see Jodi growing up...I see people are talking about the ending and how he didn't really come of age, but he did grow up from the start of the movie...at the end we actually don't know what happens except for the fact that he moved in with his girl...the movie has some characters that I identify with and I can say so and so reminds me of ____. Plus the movie is called Baby Boy, I mean what more could u expect from the title and the movie poster...something intellectual??? Look at the other movies that John Singleton has made they were all mostly about hood figures...I mean come on people every movie is not gonna be motivational and have a deep meaning... "},{"Title":"Fascinating. Singleton's best?","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Baby boy is the story of a young man, who apparently like many others in the inner-city, refuses to accept the duties and responsibilities of adulthood. He doesn't wish to leave the nest as his mother suggests he do in an early scene. Jody Summers, played by the charismatic Tyrese Gibson, is a representation for the kind of man Singleton wishes to indict with his film. Jody is twenty years old. He still lives with his mother, he has no steady job, he has children with two different women (that we know of), no car.... the list goes on. We see an intelligence within the young man that at times wants to bubble to the surface, but always seems to get stifled by bad decisions that usually involve women.In the first scene, we see Jody pick up his main-stay girlfriend (Taraji P. Henson) from the abortion clinic. After bringing her home and lovingly tucking her into bed, he's off with her car to visit the mother of another of his children. Jody really gets around with the ladies. But instead of marrying one of them or at least moving in with them, he prefers to live at home with his mother. One day there is great big surprise waiting at home when he arrives. His mother his a new man (Ving Rhames), and the two are crazy about each other. Melvin, a reformed criminal, intends to move in, and that leaves Jody feeling the pressure to move out and start an adult life of his own. Things are also complicated by the release from prison of Snoop Dog. He is a former boyfriend of Jody's woman, and he shows up at her place uninvited and looking for trouble.The film is a series of fights (both verbal and physical), make-up sessions, explicit sex, shootings, and thoughtful insight. The film is cast to perfection, and the pacing is without peer for this type of film. At 130 minutes, the film never outstays its welcome. There is a ton of profanity, and acrimony between the major players. Will Jody decide to grow up and marry the woman he loves? Will he ever see eye to eye with his mother's new boyfriend? Will Snoop Dogg get what's coming to him? Let's just say that things end up happy on most counts. I wish, along with Director John Singleton, that there would be more happy endings in the lives of these kinds of people.These characters, and the world they live in, are as far from anything I've ever experienced in my own lifetime as they could be. It is a credit to John Singleton that he could make me care so much about them in this terrific film. The film made a decent profit at the theater, and will continue to be appreciated for years on the DVD market.8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Surprising...and dramatic","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***POTENTIAL SPOILERS AHEAD***I can watch this repeatedly and I never get tired of it. Jody (Tyrese) is a 20-year-old African-American slacker with two children out of wedlock who lives with his mother in Los Angeles's infamous Watts. After having dramas (including abortions) with his 'baby mamas', his mother Juanita (A.J. Johnson) gets an ex-con thug boyfriend Melvin (Ving Rhames). Melvin tries to kill Jody and eventually, Juanita kicks him out of her house.There are numerous valid conflicts in this movie. Meanwhile, Jody's  girlfriend Yvette (Taraji Henson), the mother to his son Jo-Jo, is insecure and suspects Jody of cheating. They get into plenty arguments until she decides to rid her life of him. Rodney (Snoop Dogg) just got out of prison and stumbles at Yvette's apartment, clearly uninvited. After Rodney's attempts to rape Yvette, she confides in Jody, and they are back together. John Singleton's other movies about black men in urban societies are different than this movie, for what reason, I don't know. All I can say is that I was surprised by the drama and gritty reality in Baby Boy.  "}{"Title":"job well done","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, Singleton did a good job here. Tyrese can sing, but the boy can act too, his performance was very superb as Jody. I know many people can relate to the issues in this film. I don't know about you, but I am getting tired of Snoop Dogg he can't act and his character got on my nerves. If you can see past Snoop Dogg, Baby Boy was time well spent, if you haven't seen it you should it is a very worthy film. "},{"Title":"Singleton does not disappoint...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite (or maybe because of) the negative things I'd heard from friends and acquaintances, I decided to check BB out for myself. I was very glad I did.It's basically a scaled-down version of Boyz in the Hood, with fewer characters allowing for more development. While it's not quite on the same level as Boyz, it's a very emotional drama that's thought provoking, sad, hilariously funny, and at times subtly disturbing.After this, Boyz, and Shaft, I am anxiously awaiting John Singleton's next work.  "},{"Title":"Sociology at its Best-Language at Worst Describes Baby Boy**1/2","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sociologists would have a field day with this film. Given the current state of things, it's amazing that African-Americans have not picketed this film due to its extremely negative stereotyping of black life in America.Black men are depicted as shiftless tramps, hustlers and just general low-lives. Ditto for women.The language here is absolutely disgusting to say the least. You can't get through a sentence without b and f bombs being hurled at each other.How old is Tyrese Gibson's mom in this film? She must have had him when she was 14 or so.How horrible that the killing is never solved by police officials.These negative things being said, our sociologists would view this film positively claiming that it gives an adequate description of black life.Where are our so called black activists in protesting this film? I thought I was back in the New York City classroom or other large urban school setting. What a disgusting film to show to all groups. Talk of reviving of racial prejudice, this was really off the wall. "},{"Title":"Sorry, John, but this movie sucks.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BABY BOY(2001)Developed and published by Columbia PicturesPros>Die-hard fans of Tyrese, Snoop Dogg, and Ving Rhames will be pleased with this movie.Cons>Most people will get the message about a half-hour into the film.>With the exception of Ving Rhames(just barely), all the characters in this movie suck and you really don't give a damn about neither of them.>People who aren't fond of foul language will probably not like this movie.Plot summary Jody(Tyrese) is a 20-something slacker who still lives at home with his mother but is also the father of two children from different mothers, drives his girlfriend's car like he owns it, and basically is living off them both without a actual job.  Recently, his mother got a boyfriend whom she lets move in with them, and from then on, the plot goes downhill and gets lost in a plethora of senseless foul language, shameless and gratuitous sex, and drugs.Review Baby Boy starts off as interesting, but after a half-hour into the film, it feels like John Singleton just stands up and shouts The hell with it!  Basically, the movie's message was about the main character to get off his lazy a** and take care of his responsibilites.  None of these characters in this movie would be someone I'd like to know, and I don't who was worse in this movie -- the black males or the black females.  On the plus side, Tyrese proves that he can act.  Too bad he does it in the wrong film.  In closing, I think it would have been better if Singleton did a sequel to Boyz N the Hood that takes places 10 years after the original with Cuba Gooding, Jr.(Note Cuba's brother, Omar, is in this film), Nia Long, and Laurence Fishburne returning rather than making this movie.My final 2 cents Boyz N the Hood it ain't, Baby Boy has got to the worst film ever made by John Singleton.My rating 1 out of 10  "},{"Title":"All Grown Up.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Baby Boy (2001) Dir John Singleton / Cast Tyrese Gibson, Omar Gooding Jr., Ving Rhames, Snoop Dogg, Adrienne-Joi Johnson Inspiring film about growing up with Tyrese Gibson as a twenty year old who lives at home but he is a father himself of two children by different women. He drives his girlfriend home from the abortion clinic then he borrows her car to go visit other women. To make money he resorts to selling stolen female clothing. His sister is involved with an ex con who is trying to go straight. Outside the house Gibson is involved in gang wars with his best friend. His girlfriend's ex-boyfriend is getting out of prison and decides to move in with her. The conclusion is violent and somewhat corrupt but director John Singleton who is famous for Boyz N the Hood establishes interesting visual moments. Gibson is superb as a young man pretending to grip reality rather than face adulthood even though some decisions were extremely unwise. Omar Gooding Jr. as his best friend is into gang wars and finalizing one of Gibson's personal wars. Snoop Dogg makes a good impression as a criminal who forces his way and meets consequences. Ving Rhames is compelling as an ex-con building for acceptance. Adrienne-Joi Johnson plays Gibson's mother who urges him to grow up. Theme addresses women involved with men who aren't emotionally ready to commit. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"John Singleton hits young black men in the nutz","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director John Singleton hits the black manhood where it hurts. His theme for the movie from the start is that black men in America are little more than babies. He rails against the culture that infantilize them and the men who live that way.Joseph Summers (Tyrese Gibson) is a young black man struggling to get by. He lives with his mama (Candy Ann Brown). His baby mama Yvette (Taraji P. Henson) is frustrated with him. She starts going with gangster Rodney (Snoop Dogg). His mother has a new boyfriend Mel (Ving Rhames) who's done time.It's very tough. Joseph makes mistakes. He's an idiot at times, but he isn't a bad guy. Tyrese Gibson doesn't allow him to play the fool in this. He instills the character with humanity even when things are at the lowest. If there is one message, I think Singleton is trying to tell young black men to get their sh14 together. "},{"Title":"This movie is sooo bad, it becomes good.","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers Im rating this movie a 3, but that being said, i have the DVD and i never change it when its on TV. I find the TV version even funnier than the uncensored. First about me, im a 25-30 year old White male that was not brought up with a difficult life. I say this cause I've read some other reviews that talk about how pin point this movie is. I hope to god they are wrong, there is not a level head in this movie. And none of the African Americans i am friends with, have ever acted anything like this.Jody (our main character) tries to act gangster, but clearly is soft. The movie gave me the feeling that if his friend P was not around, he probably would have a better life. But he looks up to his friend, who spews lines that are border line retarded, and Jody takes them like gospel. Jody treats his girlfriend/ baby momma (played by Taraji Henson) like crap. I am troubled by her acting in this movie, not sure if its lack of guidance from the director, or just her inexperience at the time. But later in her career she proves to be a great actress, just not here. P played by Omar Gooding, is an apple that was thrown from the tree. He needs to go back to Nickelodeon, and leave the grown up roles to his cousin, Cuba. Ving Rhames actually acts fine, just has a poorly written role. Now the reason i love this movie; Certain scenes, are so over the top, they are awesome. Jody, at one point gets punkd and beat up for his bike, by a bunch of school kids. Instead of manning up, he gets his friend P and gun, and make the kids stand there and take a beating at gunpoint. Which ends up with P spanking one like its his own child. Every scene with snoop dog has great one liners. And all these one liners are even better on the TV version, because the N Bomb gets substituted with chicken. Towards the end of the movie, Snoop rolls up on Jody in a drive by, and once again Jody hits the fetal position, instead of fighting back. And cries cause he thought he was shot, but wasn't even close. There are many more scenes like these, but you need to just watch it. In summary, i rate this movie a three, but i love watching it. From an actual critical stand point, John Singleton should be embarrassed for this representation of Americans. best quote; snoop I hate you too lil chicken "},{"Title":"Explicit lifestyle not held back","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Singleton concludes what he calls his Hood trilogy with his 2001 installment Baby Boy. It centers around an immature, twenty year old black man nicknamed Jody (Gibson) who lives with his mom and his fathering two young kids from separate women. His mom gets a new boyfriend named Melvin (Rhames) who is what Jody calls a thug, much to his dismay. More things in Jody's life including friendships, relationships, and family begin to crumble throughout the film when Jody realizes he must grow up.Singleton has successfully made a brutally honest, cut throat, and raw look at the real hood. Not the glorified, Imma-shoot-me-a-thug-and-get-me-a-bitch-cause-this-the-good-life hood. It's almost a documentary style look at what a black area looks like. It goes beyond the stereotypes, and treats these people like real human beings, what they are, not what they are assumed to be.Some blacks do bad, but some try to do right is why I picked up from Baby Boy. Here we have a mama's boy who needs to let his mom live her own life and let himself live his own. It sounds a lot easier than it is. His mom has been in an abusive relationship before, and now Jody does what anyone in his position would, be worried and overprotective.The trailer for Baby Boy suggests that it has a strong comedic side. That it doesn't. It has some brave wit in a few scenes with mild humor popping up, other than that, it's a strange forward piece of drama. There is nothing funny about that plot and it shouldn't have been marketed like a lot of fun. The casting, like in Singleton's previous works, is spot on and worthwhile. We get Tyrese Gibson giving his macho, but softie image. Snoop Dogg, who on the cover appears as Gibson's friend in the film, is far from it probably sporting the toughest and strongest image of mean he's most likely ever done. Rhames' role as the out-of-prison thug is very well captured and powerful just like anticipated. And the rest of the cast supports the leads well and efficient.Baby Boy manages to mix itself in with other hood comedies and concert documentaries on the Black Entertainment Network (BET) most likely to show that there is a reality to everyone's dreams. BET most likely shows the film not only because it is urban inspired, but because it is real. It shouldn't be only aired on the black network, but regular movie networks regularly. Blacks aren't the only people who father babies and live at home in an uninspired way feeding off of their moms. People of all races most likely do it too. The film just focuses around a black family.Ten years old, but still recognized as an effective drama, Baby Boy is a wakeup call to anyone practicing similar behavior. It's time to step up, be a man, and grow up. Life isn't a free ride. Working is hard, but gang life is no way to patch it. It sounds cliché, but like everything shown in Baby Boy, it's the harsh truth.Starring Tyrese Gibson, Omar Gooding, Ving Rhames, Taraji P. Henson, A.J. Johnson, and Snoop Dogg. Directed by John Singleton. "},{"Title":"Baby Boy emotional and powerful","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jody is a unemployed immature young man who isn't committed to anything or anyone but himself. He has two children out of wedlock he does not financially support. He leeches off his mother living at home. He tries to act like a gangster in the streets. That act does not fool anyone in his neighborhood. He's thought of as soft. His mother takes up with a veteran gangster called Mel. Jody feels left out as Mel becomes the man of the house. Mel tries to school Jody on how to be a real man. Jody doesn't take the lesson. Mel and Jody have a fight. It's like when a older stronger lion chases a weaker younger out the pride to fend for themselves. Jody is out on his own.He shacks up with one of his kids moms. She has some kind of relationship with a hard core gangster that beens in prison called Rodney. When Rodney comes home he causes problems for Jody. It's time for Jody to be a man and face this hard core gangster. Jody unable to kill him only wounds him, but it sends a strong enough message he will protect his own. Shook up and scared he turns to Mel who without words understands what Jody is going through. Mel uses his street mentality to put Jody back together and calm him. The two share a bond now. Jody leaves his mother's house to become a man on his own with one of his mother's children. The one he loves.Tyrese Gibson was stellar as Jody. Great performance. As a viewer I got caught up in his story because I thought he was an immature punk at times and felt sorry for him other times when Mel and Rodney backed him down. Ving Rhames gave a powerful showing as Mel. When he has Jody in a headlock letting him know what he would do to a weak man in prison was real to the bone. Ving Rhames commands every part he is in. Snoop Dogg was low down dirty Rodney. Snoop Dogg's best acting I've seen. He owned that part. He played the bad guy to perfection.John Singleton's best movie. Much better than Boyz n the Hood. More real and powerful with heart. I expected Mel was going to have to deal with Rodney. Singleton did not go that route and out smarted this viewer. "},{"Title":"Not a bad life in the hood angst movie","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Part semi-serious Gangster movie, part domestic life in the hood, I found it pretty entertaining. Vang and Snoop, with their borderline psychopathic personalities, round out the movie nicely. There are also some great comedic moments. For example one young gangster wanna-be hood rat needs to answer for his disrespect, but shows heart so he's told he won't be punched in the face. Instead he immediately gets belt whipped and screams like, well like a kid getting whipped with a belt. Little nuggets like this made me bust out laughing. (The best kind of comedy is funny because it is, not because it's pointed out to you that it's supposed to be funny.) A little more tame than Menace II Society it has the same quirky feel with moments that just ring true. "}{"Title":"A film to watch with your girlfriend.","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Baby boy' is one of those classic films that once you watch it you, you want to show it to your partner just to show them exactly how you feel. Singleton reaches out and touches the viewer with this tale of a young black man trying to make his way in the world. 'Baby Boy' touches on most of the human emotions concentrating particularly on the love that the main character and his girlfriend share with each other. Jody, the central male in 'Baby Boy',is a character that any man can relate to. He loves his girlfriend but can't keep their relationship stable for longer than a few days. Jody is a character who you can't help but care for. All he wants is to marry his girlfriend, care for his 2 children, and strangely, live at home with his mother. Jody is like a new peter pan. He really does not want to grow up, but Jody realises that he will either grow and survive in the hood or continue to act like the child he is in his mind. When watched with your special someone, 'Baby Boy' is inspirational on any relationship and after watching will give you a 'feel good feeling.' Awesome film, A must have with all couples. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Class!!!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby boy was an amazing insight into the life of a mothers boy.  I thought Tyrese was immense, and considering the role was supposed to be for tupac, he worked wonders!!  Supported by other brilliant performances and a good script, this film i rated as a 9.  This film can not be compared to the likes of menace to society, juice and boyz in the hood as it is a fresher approach to life in the hood.  I thought this film was class, Tyrese is class. "},{"Title":"Singleton Back In The Hood.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the advertisements for Baby Boy, I was less than pressed to see it.  I felt as if the last thing the Black Experience needed was another typical, gangsta flick about life in the hood.  That is so early 90's.  Black folks have moved on.  But upon watching it on DVD, I had to admit that I judged the book by the cover.  This movie was very good, nothing that I expected.  John Singleton has said for the longest that he was going to complete his Hood trilogy and I'm glad that he did.  Tyrese did an more-than-average job in his starring debut as Jody.  I thought Taraji P. Hensen was dead-on as Yvette.  She was so real and honest in her portrayal.  There are so many sistahs out there like Yvette and I think Taraji represented them well.  The only flaws were Snoop Dogg and Omar Gooding.  Not every rapper (if any) can act and Omar just wasn't very believable as a thug.  And then the ending was a bit too neat for me. ****SPOILERS****  Jody has spent years as a selfish, cheating manipulator and now all of sudden he's ready to be a man for Yvette and himself.  Sweetpea kills Rodney and then gets baptized and it's all good.  Singleton should've took a little more time to tie up these loose ends.  But I give him much credit for churning out a remarkable movie about life in the present hood. "},{"Title":"Urban melodrama at its best!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After `Boyz N The Hood' and `Poetic Justice', John Singleton completes his `hood' trilogy with `Baby Boy'. Singleton approached this film in a way that surprised but pleased me at the same time. He showed little sympathy to young black men who use their circumstances as an excuse to behave irresponsibly (like a `baby boy').The lead character Jody (Gibson) is a prime example of what Singleton is demonstrating. Two children with 2 different babymothers, living at home with his mum and unemployed with no intention of changing his life. Jody is constantly using Yvette's (his preferred girlfriend) car, more often than not to visit his other girlfriend, Peanut. One of the opening scenes is Jody bursting in on Peanut, who is naked in the shower; instead of apologising he says `Fix a nigga some food!'Despite already having 2 women this doesn't deter Jody from looking for more girls with best friend Sweetpea (Gooding). As Jody won't change his life and Sweetpea looks to Jody for guidance (one of the film's many funny moments) he faces obstacles which force him to grow up or become `Jus another nigga dead'. While it made a refreshing change in this type of film not to see a main character get shot, Singleton doesn't avoid the issue as Jody and Yvette (Henson) both visualize his funeral.Jody's mum Juanita (Johnson), who has grown tiresome of Jody's childishness starts a relationship with Melvin (Rhames), a reformed `O.G'. Melvin understands Jody's position and initially tries to stop Jody going down the path that he did. However Jody sees Melvin as a threat to his comfortable lifestyle and rejects his friendship, this leads to a tenuous relationship between the two that explodes as Melvin punches Jody across the room (literally).Predictably Jody finds it hard to adapt to the changes, leaving home to move in with Sweetpea, becoming increasingly estranged from Juanita and Yvette and being rejected by Peanut. To worsen matters, Yvette's ex &#150; boyfriend Rodney (Snoop) has been released from prison and is staying at Yvette's.Singleton is back on familiar territory with this film. I've always felt that this is where he is most at home and he shows that nobody does urban drama better, while another of the pleasant surprises was the humour that ran throughout the film. The last thing that you expect from Singleton is laughs but he didn't neglect to find humour in some of the situations, the best being when Jody and Sweetpea take violent revenge on five `little niggaz' that rob Jody earlier in the film. As the five are lined up, petrified of what will happen to them, the image in my mind was of a firing squad, this was only confirmed as Jody and Sweetpea took them out, one by one. The relevance of this attack wasn't lost on Singleton as Jody realises his immaturity. This was very much the film's turning pointSingleton has ability for finding unknown actors and getting great performances out of them. Tyrese was his most inspired choice. Despite this being his first acting role his performance far exceeded my expectations, he possesses a great screen presence and has to carry long sections of the film, which he fully succeeds in doing, I felt his performance was even better than Cuba Gooding Jr debut showing in `Boyz N The Hood'. The biggest compliment I can give him is that Singleton originally wanted late rapper Tupac Shakur to play the role of Jody, but was tragically murdered before he could do so. However, not at any time did I contemplate what Shakur might have done with the role instead.However, what made the film so watchable were all the performances. Taraji.P.Henson, at times a bit too animated, for the most part superbly supported Tyrese, showing an excellent on screen chemistry between the two. Credit also has to go to Ving Rhames and A.J.Johnson, Rhames's performance was no surprise as he is one of Hollywood's more consistent actors, while Johnson played something of a rarity in a Singleton film; a positive female.Omar Gooding (brother of Cuba) showed he has a timing for comedy even better than his Oscar winning brother, while Snoop Dogg showed a convincingly menacing side and switched from the comedy relief to main antagonist quite well.This is undoubtedly Singleton's best film since `Boyz N The Hood'. It could have been a very weak film but Singleton stayed out of the trap of trying to make another `Boyz'. This isn't `Boyz N The Hood II' and doesn't try to be. It's just a pity that movie critics didn't give this film the time of day considering the inept alternatives that were at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 6 times, and every time I see it, I really feel it. I have read other viewers comments, and those that don't like it are those that don't understand it. Although it is not a reflection of all African Americans, it does depict the typical African American relationship in the hood. As a 24 year old young woman in a emotional roller coaster of a relationship with a 29 year old young male who is still just a baby boy, I understood every aspect of this film. Jody has dealt with men coming in and out of the home, a dead brother, and a mother that has chosen men over her children. This film was quite realistic, and I gave it a 9.  "},{"Title":"One of the best dramatic movies ever.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best dramatic movies ever to be created into a movie. Even though it does have an all-black cast, the film alone shows exactly how life is like living in the 'hood and growing up. It shows how real can get between families and the problems that boyfriends and girlfriends have with each other. The movie is John Singelton's best film to this date, and even some of the main characters aren't well known, they each deliver excellent performances proving that they can truly convince you this was not a movie, but real life. Tyrese was great as the lead character and Omar Gooding, Ving Rhames, A. J. Johnson, Snoop Dogg, Mo'Nique, Tamara LaSeon Bass, and Taraji P. Henson also delivered excellent performances. If you haven't seen Baby Boy go rent or buy this great movie today. "},{"Title":"Difficult to watch; doesn't make it a bad movie","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While watching this movie, I had absolutely no idea what I would end up rating it. It was not an enjoyable experience.  Not until it was over did I realize what a good job John Singleton had actually done.  This was not a comedy, nor a romantic story, but a true depiction of SOME (NOT ALL) aspects of Black life.  I recognized each and everyone of these characters, for better or worse.  They were not exaggerated or sugar-coated, but portrayed in a true light which is often difficult to watch or accept.  Which explained my uncomfortableness, I'm sure that was the point and it was well received. 7 out of 10*** "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was surprised to see that this was a John Singleton film, given some of the other urban hits he had.  Boyz in the Hood did a really good job profiling life in the ghetto, and Higher Learning was excellent. This movie fell short though.  The plot was good, but the script seemed weak, not very solid.  Besides that, it really seemed ignorant to me, not quite stereotypical of ghetto life.  I didn't totally hate the film; it tries to send a message, but it could've been a lot better.4/10 "},{"Title":"A change must come......","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby Boy portrays African Americans at our worst, the movie is very unbalanced-meaning, for every negative character in a movie there must be ATLEAST one postive character to show growth, and to provide the lesson. In this movie that one character was Jody's mother, but even then she had her fair share of issues and contradictions. Speaking of contradictions, this movie has plenty of them. The movie perpetuates every sterotype ever thought of Black Americans. A change must come, we as a people need to stop airing our dirty laundry out for the world to see, and even worst-making a movie about our issues to capitalize off of it?! A change must come......Stone "},{"Title":"I would like to comment on the best film ever made by John Singleton.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby Boy is  a very good film.  It touches on every day situations, that we face in life. The problems Yvette has with Jody, are problems that women have with our men. The film touches on family, parenting, work ethics , and most of all love. When I watched this movie, I'm sitting there saying(thats the same things I'm going through).I think John Singleton really put it down with this movie, and I give him a thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Eye Opening","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One thing that John Singleton has always done well is show white people what it's like to be black. Baby Boy takes another step, showing a black man in domestic life. It's about Jody, played surprisingly well by Tyrese Gibson, who constantly cheats on his girlfriend even though he loves her. Omar Gooding, Ving Rhames, and Snoop Dogg, play various people in his life, and each one influences him to make his final decision. Omar Gooding, who up until this had done children's sitcoms, plays his best friend who is dealing with alot of the same problems as Jody, but is more impulsive and not as smart, so he gets himself into trouble more. Ving Rhames, the highlight performance of the movie, plays Jody's mother's new boyfriend. At first Jody resents him, but Ving Rhames ends up being an inspirational figure. And Snoop Dogg plays the villain, an ex-con who sets his sights on Jody's girlfriend, and brings Jody to a point where he either has to leave all his childish ways behind and be a man, or lose everything he loves. Being white, it was eye opening to see how Jody lived. It was kind of a culture shock. All in all, I'd say that this movie was very entertaining, and, for me anyway, informative. "},{"Title":"All about Jody - a poignant and frank look at a young man desperately needs to grow up","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Singleton's films can be so gutsy. He does not 'pussyfoot' around the storyline, nor the language/spoken words involved. He stands by the character of the characters. (Boyz N the Hood 1991; Poetic Justice 1993; Rosewood 1996.) The story has genuine substance and no frills. In Baby Boy, Tyrese Gibson's Jody is surely one who pussyfoots around life, living at his mother's house, driving his girlfriend Yvette's car, certainly a Mama's boy without himself realizing he's not behaving quite yet like a (grown/mature) man at 20. Ving Rhames as his mother's lover man around the house is the contrasting model of a mature man next to Jody. It's a hard, up-front and honest look at the love-hate, tug-of-war relationship between Jody and Yvette, the young man and the young woman, the macho and the overly sensitive aspects that young couples have. As we are wrapped up in the ups and downs of Jody and Yvette, the arguments between them, it may not be immediately obvious what a powerful social statement the director is making. There are frank languages, and bold, intimate scenes on screen. NFE (Not for everyone.) It's good for 20 something's and above. For parents, too. Respect on both sides are required in a family where the young and the grownups need to live with each other - actively listen and understand each other, together.  Very strong casting besides Tyrese as Jody and Ving Rhames as Melvin. There's Taraji P. Henson as Jody's woman Yvette; A.J. Johnson as Jody's Mom Juanita; and Omar Gooding as Jody's buddy Sweetpea. For a while, it may seem nothing much is happening other than the back and forth following Jody at home with Mom, at Yvette's lazing around and playing with his son, bantering with buddy Sweetpea and trying to sell stuff on the streets to no avail&#133;but when conflict arises and sparks action in motion, the film's rhythm changes and you're 'jolted' back into conscious reality of the scheme of things. Life changes inevitably, whether you like it or not. Jody definitely has to shape up and cross over to grownup land.Singleton is truly skillful and sensitive at his art of depicting on film the various aspects of life in the Hood. Bravo to his efforts of Baby Boy.  "},{"Title":"Good and Funny.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Movie Baby Boy was excellent and it was funny and sad at the same time. and the movie expressed the same words as the theme song to the movie Things might go a little crazy. but you will always be my baby and they're some scenes that some people wouldn't agree on such as The 4 sex scenes and The Profanity I rate this movie a 9 cause of it's funniest cast members, Yvette, Sweet Pea, and Peanut. This is a go see if you don't mind strong language and some strong scenes of sexuality.... Go see this one...... ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Reality check!!!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film from the story line to the characters, especially, Jody (Tyrese)! It brought out the sad and funny points of true life that each audience member could relate to in some way. And I want to give John Singleton thumbs up on a job well done once again! "},{"Title":"Born and raised in Watts, California, I can truly say that Mr. Singleton's focus on an accurate portrayal of what really goes on in the hood was evident in the final production of this project.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Singleton captured the true essence of the too-young grandmother trying to have a life of her own; her live-in boyfriend; an immature young father who refuses to grow up, borrows his girlfriend's car instead of buying one of his own, hustles instead of finding a real job; gangsters and peddlers in the parking lot; criminals calling collect from jail; and hoochies who are trying to get with the boyfriends of their coworkers.  Born and raised in Watts, California, I can truly say that Mr. Singleton's focus on an accurate portrayal of what really goes on in the hood was evident in the final production of this project.  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, thought-provoking...requiring an adult grasp of message...a good see!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although not as hard-hitting as Boyz in the Hood, Baby Boy is a fascinating depiction of a young man's conflicted struggle on the road to becoming a man.  It's revelations and insightfulness inspires thinking that makes you realize that the same struggle occurs in many environments, cultures and circumstances. Not only is Baby Boy conflicted, but his mother is also and they play their fluctuating needs, desires and psychology out with great intensity.  The characters in this movie were well-cast, especially Tyrese and Ving Rhames.  The only thing I could have done without was the gratuitous sex scenes.  They could have closed the doors and we would have still known what was happening.  After all, we are adults.  "},{"Title":"Surprise","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was expecting this movie to suck, but I was bullied into seeing it and It was not what I expected.  After seeing the preview trailer I thought this was just another hood life movie.  It is a hood life movie, but one with a lot of twists and plenty of humor.  The roles were well cast.  Though I wish Snoop Dogg had kept his shirt on.  Tyrese did a great job and overall I was extremely impressed.  It's good that African-American filmakers have kept on churning out hit after hit. "},{"Title":"Not just another ghetto tale...very heavy","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Singleton has done it.  He has created a film which authentically brings the themes of ghetto life to the big screen.  Cyclical poverty, domestic violence, broken--shattered families, lack of manhood/womanhood training, lack of purpose, hustle, communication failure, displaced priorities, incarceration, etc.  This film is phenomenal because of it's no-holds-barred dialogue and story.  The characters are real people.  Tyrese and Snoop seem to be the only celebrities in it.  This is a must see for anyone in or of the ghetto...or if you deal with someone who is.   "},{"Title":"The movie is excellent.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie did a realistic portrayal of the South Central experience. John Singleton put up another hit and Tyresse did an magnificent job acting the role that he did. The movie is one that I can see over and over again and will never get tired of watching it. This is a movie that can not be copied and will be remembered. "},{"Title":"Never tell someone you HATE them, because HATE is a powerful word...","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie! John Singleton does it again.  Every couple should see this film and learn what NOT to do in relationships.  The movie is very indicative of how we send the people we love through Roller-coasters of emotions, and sometimes says the exact opposite of what we mean, and how, IF pushed to the limit, we can do something that will change our lives forever. Never tell someone you HATE them, because HATE is a powerful word, one that you can never take back. "}{"Title":"Best movie I have seen this year!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie was very realistic, it made me want to personally write John Singleton and thank him for this movie.  It is not much to say except it was funny, realistic, and I could relate to the movie and I was so glad that it had a happy ending and the bad guy did not prevail.  It is a must see in my book! "},{"Title":"Singleton's best yet","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Singleton finally realizes his promise of Boyz N the Hood with Baby Boy. Full of complex and rich characters and a simple yet engrossing storyline, Singleton's vision weaves unpredictably. That's a good thing. Almost helps me forgive Higher Learning. "},{"Title":"Hard hitting but seldom seen sequel to Boys in the Hood.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Baby Boy (2001) has to be the best film John Singleton has made in his decade and a half directorial career. What separates this movie from others is how real life the situations are in this movie. People like this exist in all different races, ethnicities and social standings. I guess people were turned off by the gangsta element. I don't know why because it's just an excellent film that has brilliant acting and writing. Surprise is an understatement, when I saw this movie on video I couldn't believe that this was made by the same director who made Shaft and that schlocky Higher Learning. Too bad Singleton had to sell out again and make Too Fast, Too Furious.The movie follows the life of Jody, an unemployed roustabout who has two kids with two different women. He doesn't do anything and whines to anyone who'll listen to him. Jody takes no responsibility for his actions and blames them on others. One day his life begins to change when his mother get's involved with a world wise former knuckle head (VIng Rhames). Even though his actions and words are too straight forward for a young pup like Jody, he tries to get him to look at life from a reality perspective instead of hanging on his mother's apron strings. Jody likes to run around with his buddy Sweetpea and spend time with his babies momma. One of his girlfriends has a man (Snoop Dogg) who's waiting to get out of the pen and claim what he thinks is his. Can Jody get his life together or will the streets and his own stupidity and lack of accepting adulthood bring him down.Like I said, this is a great movie that was over looked by the viewing public. John Singleton should make more movies like this instead of trying to make a block buster. If you want to see a hard hitting drama that'll entertain as well as educate, this is the film for you. Highest recommendation possible. "},{"Title":"I really tried...","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really tried to like and appreciate this movie, considering I'm a John Singleton fan and all.  But I just couldn't understand what the heck was going on here.  The story went nowhere and the acting was horrible.  Also, Ving Rhames's talents were utterly wasted in this film.  Sorry everybody...this movie was just unbearable! "},{"Title":"Good black comedy","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   One of Singleton's best works, Baby Boy is surprising in that...it's a comedy!  While the film is a coming-of-age story, the situations Jody finds himself in are easily(and unexpectedly) remedied.  While some subject matter is indeed of a serious nature, the ultimate work is a comedy wrapped in dramatic fashion.  The characters, while apparently ignorant, are actually multidimensional and make the movie worth watching.  Singleton plays with urban stereotypes, and delivers a nice piece on maturity and responsibility.  As its name implies, it is the antithesis of Boyz N The Hood, and as a stand-alone effort, is just another story about growing up in L.A.  Please do not misread me.  The movie is not a laugh-fest, and it was not designed to be.  However, it crosses that subtle gray line in the manner of other movies, notably Wild At Heart and The Long Goodbye.  On paper and print, they are dramatic.  But when you take a second look, you appreciate the comedy of errors, played out for all its glory.  Baby Boy is like an urban Wizard of Oz; the characters grow, and people get what they deserve in the end.  I made the mistake of overlooking the film myself, and I am glad I finally saw it. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation, Baby!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Alright all you people knocking this film, stop it and think it over for a minute. This movie, perhaps Singleton's greatest opus since Boyz In Da Hood, is part of the great cinematic tradition known as blaxploitation. First there was Foxy Brown, then Blackula, then...Baby BoyYou see, all the characters in this film are MEANT TO BE stereotypes. This isn't a gritty urban epic like Boys or Menace. Oh no, this film takes place in a fantasy world where hustlers and pimps live in sprawling condiminiums and drive fancy cars. Brothers drink Kool-Aid all day and sisters be givin up that p___ like Pez. Of course, this is a 90's blaxploitation film so the funk music has been replaced by a hip-hop soundtrack. Amd the afros are conspiciously absent and replaced by dreads and corn rows. But that's just nit-picking. The story is enthralling. Although the Jodie character is not very likeable (the same can be said of all the characters), you do want to see him come to his senses (or get shot) There's plenty of T&A and violence...See this movie. "},{"Title":"Singleton's worst","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Singleton at the helm of the Baby Boy production and rave reviews from many critics, I was sorely disappointed to find this turkey a numbing and disjointed narrative which jumps from one rant to another as it peers into the lives of a bunch of stereotypical genital obsessed black Los Angelinos. An attempt to portray the futility of one shiftless man's growing up black in Watts while wrestling with the responsibilities of manhood, Baby Boy loses itself in itself as it buries whatever social message was to be had in too much redundant clutter. Recommended only for those who can make the huge leap of faith required to buy into a film which is obviously just another commercial Hollywood copycat Afro-Am hood drama. "},{"Title":"Not entirely successful, but still worth a viewing","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Singleton's take on young African American men with an oedipus complex may not be entirely succesful but it definitely delivers some powerful moments. The faults of the film can't be pinned on the cast. They all give solid performances, particularly Ving Rhames in yet another standout performance. The problems with the film, however, lie solely in the script, which could  have used another rewrite. Another problemis in the running time, it just goes on too long. While some scenes score a dramatic home run, others go on long after the point has been made. A few trims here and there would have made this film perfect. Don't get me wrong though, this film is certainly the best one I've seen so far this summer and kudos go to Columbia for releasing a film that explores social and political issues in the middle of a summer filled with dreadful, commercial junk. "},{"Title":"An unflinching analysis of black youth in America","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Wayans brothers were commended for their work on Scary Movie because of the levity involving their black characters.  Many of them were made fun of, ridiculed or died in heinous ways that only another black auteur could do or risk being ridiculed in society and from critics of all colours.  John Singleton has taken on that same risk but with a more serious subject matter.  And let's face it, if Robert Zemekis or Steven Spielberg or even Quentin Tarantino attempted subject matter like this, they would at best be dismissed as being misinformed and at worst they would be ostracized by both races as being racist.  But when a director like John Singleton writes, produces, and directs material like this, we all stand up and listen.  He is after all the man that gave us Boyz N The Hood.  So if the man has something to say, then we all had better listen.Baby Boy explores the mercurial world of black youth in America.  It's very foundation is one that believes that black men are subject to racism but they use that very excuse as one to keep them down.  This is a film that tells us that black men may all have it hard but it is up to them to make the right choices and think before they act.  We all have problems and we all have to deal with adversity.  And there is no panacea to cure all of Pandora's diseases that we all breath in.  Dealing with the trials and tribulations of our lives is what makes us adults or what keeps us as the children that we are.Tyrese plays Jody, a 20-year-old mama's boy that still lives with momma even though he has fathered two children and just made his girl have an abortion for another.  He has no responsibilities, pays no bills and yet manages to mac his way into many women's lives because of his good looks and smooth charm.  But now his mother is growing tired of his act and she has met a new man named Marvin.  Marvin is played with utter conviction by Ving Rhames.  This is a man that was once just like Jody.  He grew up in the hood and did favours for people.  When those favours led to murder, he went to jail for 10 years and did hard time.  So he knows where Jody is coming from.  He can see a lot of himself in Jody and as much as he wants to keep Jody from following the same path he did, he generally keeps his nose out of his business.  I think the Marvin character is the most pivotal one in the film.  This is a man that has done it all, seen it all and now has chosen to go the straight and narrow.  He owns his own landscaping business, he has a girlfriend and he has learned to harness his temper and put things in perspective.  He could probably return to his roots and make some easy money but he knows that there are more important things in life.  His freedom is one of them.  This is the man that Jody should be learning from.  This is the man that we should all be learning from.  And Rhames nails him perfectly.  Rhames has charisma.  He has panache and he has something intangible about him.  He, along with Benitio Del Toro have to be the finest actors in Hollywood right now and this role showcases not only his natural acting ability but just how buff he has become since his turn as Marcellus Wallace in Pulp Fiction.Baby Boy covers a plethora of issues that black youth have to deal with and Singleton doesn't paint a pretty picture of the way they handle these issues.  There were times when I wanted to laugh at the stupidity of these characters and there were times when I was in so much disgust that I wanted to leave the theater.  This is a film that has so many players, so many weak women that can't live without a man, so many couples that figure the best way to solve a problem is to have orgasms, so many gangsters that can't accept their second chance and try to live a better life and so many young people making bad decisions.  When there is a thug in your house and he is on parole, here's a piece of advise, call the police.  Don't just put up with whatever it is that they tell you to do.  So many issues would be solved in this film if everybody wasn't so weak.  If people could just learn to stand on their own two feet, then they wouldn't be in some of the predicaments that they are.  The black youth portrayed in the film are ripe with temerity, and I applaud John Singleton for painting it that way.  I just wonder if this film will help anyone that it speaks to, or if it will just be another film that we all see and then forget about until it comes out on video?8 out of 10-  This is not as slick as Boyz N The Hood but it is certainly a film that is enjoyable and has much to say.  It should be seen by all just for those reasons alone.  Oh, and Ving Rhames strutting his proverbial skills is another reason.  Hail to Ving!   "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie seemed like a parody for the first fifteen minutes. After that, myself and the rest of the entire theater stopped laughing... actually, then we began laughing again... for the rest of the movie.Singleton really went off the deep end with this one. Horrible cast, horrible acting. Dialogue from god-knows-where (definitely not the inner city... how would Singleton even know? He hasn't been there in HOW long? Huh, then he uses Snoop... hmmm), and a score that was almost as droning and melodramatic as said bad acting.Nothing was done correctly in this film. Most disturbing (well, MOST disturbing is how offensive this film will be to blacks, whites, old, young, male, female, and anyone else who actually understands human behavior) is the fact that the screenplay (if there even was one) was tripe of the worst kind. Characters that did not develop, episodical stories that went nowhere, and an ending that tells us Be a man! Move out of your mom's house... and right into your girlfriend's! And, hey, you kill a guy? Just pray!We all know that Singleton creates garbage, but this one really takes the cake. I mean, watch the trailer... Tyrese standing up on the curb explaining to his campatriot (Hanging with Mr. Cooper alumn, Omar Gooding) that he will Change the game. Did that make YOU laugh? Because if it didn't, the rest of the flick will.The Battlefield Earth of Hood movies. "}{"Title":"Reaching the Maturity in a Dangerous Ghetto","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jody (Tyrese Gibson) is an immature unemployed Afro-American, living with his mother in a ghetto and having a son with his girl-friend Yvette (Taraji P. Henson), but not assuming a family of his own and not being faithful to Ivette. Jody has a serious Oedipus complex problem and Sweetpea (Omar Gooding) is his best-friend. When his mother gets a new boy-friend, the dangerous Melvin (Ving Rhames), and the former boy-friend of Yvette, Rodney (Snoop Dogg), leaves the prison on probation, Jody has to find a destination to his life.Baby Boy is not the best work of John Singleton. Although having a great performance of the Afro-American cast, the story about reaching the maturity in a dangerous ghetto is too long and all the characters are non-charismatic. It takes too much time for the twist point and I really did not like this movie. Maybe American viewers, who live closer to this reality, may appreciate Baby Boy. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Baby Boy &#150; O Rei da Rua (Baby Boy &#150; The King of the Street) "},{"Title":"Pathetic Women","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I get the feeling that John Singleton hates women.If the Yvettes of the world are all he knows in women, I can understand why.The way he paints women as miserable, self-loathing creatures disturbs me greatly.As a woman I would have been deeply ashamed to work on this project.As a black woman, I would like viewers of this film to know that I never met any pathetic creature such as Yvette, nor have any of my friends.I also have a deep shame that John Singleton would paint a picture of black life in Los Angeles as insular and disturbingly bleak.There is one light note of comedy, whether intended or not,when the actress Monique of UPN's The Parkers, in a cameo appearance, says she wears size 16.Besides the horrible treatment of women, the profanity is just overdone.It's simply pointless.Then there are the explicit sexual scenes, which do little to advance the story.There is also an approximately 20 minute segment, in which Jody and Sweet Pea retaliate against some younger want to be gangsters which does nothing to advance the story and would have been better left on the cutting room floor.As far as performances, Tyrese and Taraji P. Henson both need some acting lessons.Ving Rhames and A.J. Johnson did fantastic jobs with the rather shallow characters they were given to portray.Beyond that the only redeeming factor in this movie is the great music.Black women filmmakers, now is your time to move forward and make films, which portray us, as we really are, strong positive warriors and not John Singleton's sniveling little wenches. "},{"Title":"NOT Utter and Complete Garbage","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I felt BABY BOY exposed and condemned certain stereotypes, not just merely perpetuated them. The film isn't a typical 2-hour disposable entertainment that's packed with cliché. It's a thoughtful drama that asks everyone watching which character they most closely resemble. Which jerk are you most like? It's the story of a self-described man REALIZING he's actually an immature boy in a man's body. Know anyone like that? Male? Female? I'm the whitest white guy you'll ever meet, and BABY BOY is one of the few black films that didn't insult me by perpetuating black (or merely human)stereotypes in an IRRESPONSIBLE way. In the black characters, I saw countless white people I have had the displeasure of knowing (and a few I resemble myself). It's not about BLACK or WHITE. It's about JACKASSES in any color, gender, shape or size. Pay attention. Leap over that color barrier. Hated SHAFT, though! Ugh. "},{"Title":"It's dehumanizing assuming Jody can only be a good person - if he's able to see himself, in the shoes of his potential victim","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was amazed by Baby Boy. I was totally amazed by this film. Baby Boy is a bit unflinching. For one thing, as the movie goes along, Jody, the protagonist of the movie, begins to seem vaguely unlikeable, perhaps even down-right bad. He does, perhaps, redeem himself by the end. There's a lot of conflict in the relationships in Jodys' life. Too many people trying to live in too small a space with probably not quite enough money to go 'round. I think I saw his mom as a victim and Jody as a bad-guy. Really, maybe it would be helpful if his mom were a more compassionate person too. Perhaps Jody is taking after his mom in the first place... donno I could see myself in the role of his moms' new boyfriend. A friend of mine was talking about something like this awhile back. He was saying, you know, if I ever do get married, the lady's going to have kids of her own already. I swear; they based the guy in the movie 'The 40 Year Virgin' on my friend. I'm pretty much in the same situation - I mean - about dating ladies who already have kids. Baby Boy seems to lose something with repeated viewings tho perhaps it's the editing for TV. I was put off some by the moral tone of the movie. It seems somehow dehumanizing to assume Jody can only be a good person - if he's able to see himself in the shoes of his potential victim. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was great and will be a classic. It depicted real life in South Central LA and was dedicated to sending a message about growing up and facing responsibilities. Anyone who couldn't see that really did not pay attention to the movie at all. I did, however feel that the acting could have been slightly better, but for the most part, I felt that parts were chosen for the right people to act them out. I hope that a Baby Boy two comes out with a more mature/father-figure Baby Boy. It may be a long shot but stranger movies have been made. After seeing this movie, it has made me want to see more movies with the same type of depiction that Baby Boy had.KcMack "},{"Title":"Very good, if you like this sort of thing","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a white person who doesn't live in 'the hood', I have a hard time identifying with the characters in this movie.Still, it was worth seeing for some very good performances. Ving Rhames as Jody's mother's boyfriend, Tyrese as Jody, Taraji Henson as Jody's girlfriend Yvette, A. J. Johnson as Jody's mother. Cuba Gooding's brother Omar is as talented as his brother. Even Snoop Dogg did a capable job as Yvette's former boyfriend. He couldn't compare with the fine performers around him, but he does have the potential for a career outside the rap world.I was amazed at how gentle Jody was with Yvette. The stereotype is for someone like him to be abusive, but he only came close when really pushed, and most of us would not be that patient. The writers didn't rely on easy solutions to problems, and people worked things out by making an effort.The nightmares and fantasies got annoying for me, and I believe the actors themselves did not know how the movie would end because all these different scenes were filmed. Still, it was well done overall.I'm so glad I saw a cleaned-up version, but the film was still quite potent. It's certainly not for kids. "},{"Title":"Awful?","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I say Awful with a question mark in my title because I said that this movie was horrible in front of my coworkers and they vehemently denied it. As I sat in utter disbelief coming to the realization that they truly liked this movie, they sat in equal utter disbelief coming to the realization that I thought it was pure trash. Now, I saw this movie 1 and 1/2 times and they saw it more than me, so their defense was more profound than my critique, but nonetheless it made me take a step back and re-review it. I saw it when it came out, but these were the first people I had met in 2 years who didn't think this movie was awful. And this wasn't based on region, class, age, or any demographic worth noting. Everybody I discussed this movie with thought it was completely ridiculous. Until now. So let me throw in my 2 cents to compare and discuss among others.To understand why I hate this movie, I have to bring up others. Boyz N Tha Hood and Menace II Society had characters in it that were actually likable, and even though they did things that some considered immoral, it wouldn't be immoral in their different set of rules. For example, Kane and Tre, did things and reacted in ways to situations based on their life and the rules in the hood. Doughboy and Wax may have been thugs and criminals, but they didn't do things in excess of rules put in place. None of them started pointless fights or disrespected others for no reason, and all of them tried to do right by the rules. So, if you have a character in a movie who is supposed to be like, he by definition has to be likable. Doughboy, Kane, Tre, Wax and even the murder happy O-Dogg were likable in the context of the hood. Conversely characters like the racist cop and the dude that dropped a dime on Kane and O-Dogg (after Kane beat him like that boxin on TV) were unlikeable and rightfully so. Adding this in, 2Pac's character in Poetic Justice also falls along these lines. Now take Baby Boy. I couldn't stand any character other than Ving Rhames and the mother. Ving was an ex con trying to do right and Tyrese tried him one too many times and got hemmed up and later decked. And the mother had one (and formerly another) bum of a son who refused to grow up and she tried to educate him and his girl until finally she had enough and rightfully kicked him out. But Tyrese as the main character had zero redeeming qualities. He ran his mouth way too much and was a worthless father and boyfriend. Plus, he used the memory of his dead brother to guilt his mother into takin care of him. Kane and Tre were trying to grow up and even if they had childish backward views on certain issues, they were trying. Tyrese wasn't. His girlfriend was even worse. She knew he cheated on her and still stayed with him. She let Snoop barge in her house without any concern for her child. My coworkers said I judged her without knowing her background. Look, all I had to go off of was her chickenhead behavior in the movie. Like Tyrese, she ran her mouth too much and was loud and was the cause for her own troubles. And as the two main characters you were supposed to connect with them, I didn't - not because I couldn't forgive them for their flaws, but because they didn't do anything to deserve it. Every bad thing that happened to them, they facilitated it and wanted us to feel sorry for them. The only reason these two worthless idiots are together is because neither one of em could handle Snoop. Please. Gimme a break. We may all know people like them or have friends like them and while we wouldn't bad mouth them, at some point we have to stop making excuses and call a spade a spade, or in this case, an idiot an idiot.So this moves me to the secondary characters. They were all idiots and exaggerated stereotypes that ALWAYS took the low ride. Omar Gooding was hilarious as the over hard friend. And that girl from Tyrese's girls work was awful. Again, I am aware that there are people like this, but NOT 24-7. These characters RARELY did anything right. They were all unlikeable as people in general. This is unrealistic. And every scene was exaggerated to the extreme. When Tyrese's girl was talking to her friend and her man came up behind her and started hittin it? Again, I'm not sayin it's totally unrealistic, but it's a bit much. At no point in this film did I connect with these characters in a good way. I saw friends and family playing these roles, but they were the friends and family I made fun of or disliked.Overall, this movie was crap, made even worse with scenes like Omar Gooding acting all hard, and the ridiculous womb scene. I laughed AT this movie as opposed to WITH it and although my coworkers made me rethink my stance, I just couldn't bring myself to change it.  "},{"Title":"The best of John Singleton","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At last an unbiased movie by Singleton. I never thought I'd see something like this, but I did. Singleton has the courage to portray what happens with a portion of black American males (and females) lack of maturity, selfishness, irresponsibility in parenthood... (this applicable to males). As with females, he signals how naive they can be at times. And he does so without self victimism.With regards to acting, I would say it is merely average, but the story is so good that it is not that relevant. I specially liked the work by Ving Rhames, and Snoopy is not bad either. I was surprised and I was pleased.Good job, Singleton.7/10 "},{"Title":"Looking foward to seeing the entire film, just caught last twenty minutes","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just happened to be channel surfing and the beauty of an actress combined with prolifically foul dialogue caught my attention as my wife commented that this language is avilable to children at this time?, (twelve noon), made me realize that many would skip this film for just this reason and caused me to remain there to see if the rest of this film could sustain this alienation? I attended to the film in the background but after a minute or 2 gave it my entire attention as I realized this was a powerful film whose substance and plot were searingly real and a very exciting sort of docudrama. After a few more minutes I was amazed at the depth of characters, truthful portrayals and breathe and extent of situations this film took on.The language is a vehicle that along with a complex interweaving of concentrated lifes really makes many points. I only caught the last twenty minutes or so but I'm really looking forward to seeing the entire film. John Singleton is no more just a mere name. "},{"Title":"awesome times","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie was one of those films that need to be made more often.  it doesnt try to glamorize life in the ghetto!  its completly real and it shows the struggles people in the ghetto go through.  tyrese doesnt act that great but he is convincing.. i loved a. j. johnson's acting though, she is awesome! "}{"Title":"Responsibility and dignity","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   This movie shows a perfect example of some baby fathers in the ghetto. A young man name Jody who refuses to take responsibility of being a father and a family man. If you still intimately involved with your baby mother,why not live with her and become a responsible adult? He (Jody) had another baby mother (peanut) that he visits occasionally,but is not sexually involved with her. But the one he's intimate with (Yvette) is willing to accept him for the man he is,then why not make the commitment? That's why I think this movie is titled Baby Boy. A young man who wants to take the easy way out by staying home with his mother and living rent free. Now that his mother had went on with her life Jody started haten'. He's afraid that she going to throw him out on the street to be left for dead as his mother's new boyfriend live their happy life. Through all the confusion and chaos with his mother and her boyfriend,Jody loses focus with his girlfriend and their son. As Yvette was humiliated in her own home in front of her son by her ex-boyfriend who was staying there after his release from prison. When she brought this to Jody's attention he felt helpless knowing that this cannot continue. Jody didn't really want to kill him but he had to do something. That's when his boy got involved and took care of it,but Jody didn't want it to happen that way. Though the ending was touching when his mother's boyfriend felt Jody's pain and stood by his side. Jody finally realized that his family (Yvette and their son) was most important to him. "},{"Title":"Impressive and sad, but still attractive to watch.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Need to be said at first, this is a ghetto movie. It shows dysfuntional families, young mothers, crime, uneployment, promiscuity, violence, confusion of young people growing up around all this and making decisions from the available options about their lifes. Sad to see, but unfortunatelly it's here, and I don't think it's ethnicaly related. It's about enviroment that surrounds an individual, and about the conditions of life. There is lot of issues you just respond 'no' to, but there are also things where you can recognize either part of yourself or someone you know. There is one thing I really miss in the movie. A truly positive character. Because Jody wasn't him, really. He had a bunch of serious minuses. The well-doer by me was his 'baby momma', but the movie was about baby boy, Jody (Tyrese). "},{"Title":"pretty damn stupid","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really hated this movie, it was really dumb all of the performances except for Ving Rhames and Snoop Dogg were pitiful.  The women looked good in this but it was just plain dumb and I didn't like it at all... John Singleton has done WAAAY better than this and I'm not very optimistic about 2 Fast 2 Furious neither3/10 - I thought it sucked "},{"Title":"An unambitious move by singleton, yet enjoyable to certain extent","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Singleton's solid direction didn't save the uneven pacings of this film , and not only the pacing, theres alot of Gap that occured here, i dont know what it is exactly but probably the lack of resolution and the absence of consequences that suppose to be given to some of the lead characters, i don't know maybe its just me, after Boyz n' the hood(1992) where the ending is brilliantly justified or the murkier 'Menace to Society' (1993), this one seems to be too easy going on facing the hard days yet to come, so i should probably blame it on the script.The story opens with a fresh sequence on the definition of why a black male is defined as a baby boy, we are then introduced with the title character , Jody , A 20 yr old unachieving young man trying to break free off the directionless life on the street but seems to do little about it,instead he preffers the good old in and out and sampling other local females, despite already giving babies to his steady girlfriend and another mistress type of woman,oh yes, he also lives with his young mom who still samples on different type of thug boyfriends, that is until the biggest thug,Melvin aka Ving rhames came by , took the heart of mom, and leave Jody with oedipus angst, now i leave it to here, since it is really hard to break down a summary for this one, every scenes seems to be working like a mini episodes of themselves, which is also the weakness of this film.Other than that , good acting, Tyrese did a good job playing Jody, considering he is a singer, and a young one at that, he got the emotion played all on the right spot (i think), Taraji Henson as the pressurized lover who bears Jody's baby, Ving Marcellus Rhames as a proud ex-old schooler who dates Jody's mom (watch for a very innovative stamina requiring squatting activity he and J's Mom perform..priceless) , Omar Gooding steals every scene he is in as Jody's cuz who's raging about his current life status, and what lesson of life in da street film is it without employing a hardcore gangsta rapper? Snoop Dog appears here looking more evil as usual, heLL, even Tupac did a cameo, sorta...i rent this DVD without any expectation whatsoever, since one review i read gave this film a 1 outta 5,and also this film went straight rentals without showing anywhere in cinemas out here.... thus i am quite satisfied knowing that this stuff isn't really that bad, i mean Singleton's film couldn't be that bad wouldn't it? well bad it ain't only it could have been much better2.5 out of 5+2.5 for neat acting job and cinematography, plus the nice squatting idea.-2.5 for the numbing pacings, the overused shootout in the porch scene, and plotholes that might go away if youre just watching this to kill time. "},{"Title":"Lots of Truth, and Agonizing as a Result","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While growing up as a Black male in inner city Detroit in during the 1980's, I was a considered a nerd.  I didn't wear the hippest clothes.  I didn't have the most money.  However, I had smarts.  I thought of myself as someone having great potential.  Women, most of the time, were not interested in me.  I had to tolerate the agony of watching Black women in the inner city flock to some of the most ignorant Black men that the Black community has to offer.  These Black men sold drugs.  They didn't hold down jobs.  They weren't trying to get education.  They were in and out of prison.  They got women pregnant and didn't take care of the kids once they were born.  They lived with their mothers or shacked with their girlfriends.  They were getting killed.  They had nothing.  They were not trying to improve their lives in any way.  A great number of the Black men I saw young Black women flock to had/have no future.  It's a sad commentary on the social topic of Black relationships in the ghetto.  As  a result, Black women who flock to this trash and their lives suffer as a result, they tend to comment that there are very few good Black men around, and that the few Black men who do have bright futures go to White women.  Then I see the movie Baby Boy.There was a great deal of reality to this movie.  I took the movie personally due to my lifelong disgust at seeing Black men at their most ignorant and Black women at their most stupid.  I don't think Singleton was trying to glorify this phenomenon, though it might have appeared that way by the movie's ending.This movie may have done a lot to decrease the moral of inner city Black America "},{"Title":"Was missing something...","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Singleton has definitely proved to be one of our best up-and-coming directors in the biz.  And this film does show off his talent to a good degree.  The characters are well-developed.  The camerawork is excellent.  Singleton definitely went into this project with good intentions.  But there was something about the way it was executed that just didn't work. The acting is terrific.  Tyrese, who's never been in any previous films, is a natural.  He's absolutely superb, and it's very hard to tell that this was his first movie.  I'm not a fan of his music, but now I know in case his music career fails, he has something to fall back on.  Ving Rhames is great as the new man in Jodie's (Tyrese) mother's life.  It's nice to see Ving really advance as an actor.  This is a role that allows him to be more of a character, rather than the bulky, don't-mess-with-me bodyguard that lingers in the background.  I would say this performance and his performance in Bringing Out the Dead are the highlights are of his career.  Omar Gooding--Cuba's brother--is also great.  It's great to see him advance as well.  I remember when he used to host the show Wild and Crazy Kids on Nickelodeon and do guest spots on Hangin' with Mr. Cooper.  He proves, in this movie, that talent really runs in the Gooding family. Of course, at two hours and ten minutes the film goes on pretty long.  Too long for its own good.  And I didn't know why, but the drama in this film just didn't have much power to it.  With the exception of one climactic scene in which Tyrese is about to shoot Ving, and there's a silent exchange between the two of them, I just didn't feel compelled.  Definitely not as much as I was when watching Boyz N the Hood.  On a comic level, the film actually works quite well.  I assumed, since it's a John Singleton film, there wouldn't be much humor.  But I was wrong.  Seeing Snoop Dogg on the DVD cover was a little bit of a letdown.  Luckily, he doesn't get a big part in the film and they probably just gave him second billing 'cause many people love Snoop.  I don't hate him, I think he's a good rapper, but as an actor he has virtually no substance.  Speaking of which, I liked the theme song to Baby Boy by Tyrese and Snoop.  It plays intermittently throughout the film, and it's a great, head-bopping tune. There's a good deal of positive things I can say about this movie, but overall I felt it didn't come together tightly.  Plus, it was long and dragged at points.  My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the summer 2001","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baby Boy was one of the best film to be released in the summer. The film which tells the story of a man who needs to grow up, really hit home for guys who live in single parents with their mothers. The acting is exceptional in particular Tyrese who plays Jody. Snoop is also good as Rodney as is Omar Gooding. The best acting job comes from Ving Rhames as Jody's mom's new man and Taraji P. Henson as Jody's girl. This film is highly recommended. The only ones who didn't like it were those who didn't understand the message. "},{"Title":"An all-black movie that's very accessible to non-blacks","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a white American, I have to admit that there's quite a bit of African American entertainment I don't relate to.  Much of it seems to be made by blacks for blacks, without any thought given to being accessible to people of other cultures.A recent example that springs to mind is Barbershop.  I utterly failed to relate to any of the scenes shown in the previews and interview-accompanying clips for the film.  In particular, the stuff presented as being ostensibly funny seemed completely humorless to me.Coming from this background, I came across Baby Boy during a Cinemax free preview weekend, and it instantly hooked me.  Unlike some black films, this movie was clearly not made to glorify the black experience above all others, nor to speak only to black people.  It's just a realistic (as far as I can tell) depiction of a certain time and place, that being the black neighborhoods of L.A., circa 2001.  Many of the themes were universal, and the material that's specific to this particular subculture was presented in an even-handed and easy-to-relate-to manner.While my usual instinct on hearing about the doings of gangstas is disgust and disbelief that anyone would choose to live like that, this film did a great job of portraying how much the environment you grow up in has an effect on the way you live.  I definitely felt empathy for these characters that I'd just think of as scumbags, were I to just see a news story about their crimes.I think Singleton probably does a real service to the black community here, letting people outside the culture understand what life can be like in that environment.  I think this does a lot more for racial understanding than, say, the average gangsta rap album does, though they touch on the same areas.Speaking of which, a more mundane reason why I probably enjoyed this film more than many black movies is that the soundtrack wasn't wall-to-wall rap. I really don't enjoy most rap, so there's the danger of my missing out on otherwise good cinematic material if I'm too turned off by the music. Baby Boy, on the other hand, featured an effective (if somewhat generic) orchestral score by David Arnold, along with some tasteful R&B.  The rap was restricted to some brief and not in-your-face appearances on characters' stereos.  I think this helped the realism of the film, and the sort of docudrama-type presentation of the material.Like a couple of other commenters, I was bothered at how unwilling to call 911 the characters in the film were, when it was clearly the time to do so. But rather than make me lose my suspension of disbelief, this just made me sad to think that there are probably a lot of people in these communities who agree with the rap lyric that 911 is a joke, and don't feel they can get any help from the man. "},{"Title":"Another degrading life in the hood film","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't really understand the non-black persons obsession with black movies, like Boyz in the Hood, Menace 2 Society and those kinds of films. I did actually enjoy Boyz, because it was a good story above all else, and Fishburne's performance was excellent.This isn't nearly as good, but it's a heck of a lot better than his broader ventures into writing and directing. In other words, Singleton should stick to writing black characters, not point that big bigoted mind of his at depicting other races, because complete and utter unrealistic trash like Higher Learning happens when he does that.The biggest problem I have with this film is the way it glorifies the life of these black, criminal gang banger types. Just like bad rap music. And because the film doesn't really go anywhere, it just beats in the same theme over and over until the predictable and contrived finale.The performances by the non actors (Snoop Doggy Doggy etc.) are pretty awful, but they weren't exactly asked to do Shakespeare here so it's easy to overlook. Watch it if you want another (realistic?) view of life in the ghetto, don't waste your time otherwise. "},{"Title":"i lmao!!!!!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the acting, the so far out of reality script. i spent most of my time laughing so hard that my side hurt, this was really bad. ok, ya got a guy who has a girlfriend with an apartment but you live with your mom/lol then you have these same old scenes like when one actor is trying to make a point and his point is he does not have one. lmfao, then ya got snoopy the dog with a 90 pound body and wearing 200 pounds of clothes/lol. this was so bad it was good. john singleton is overated, boys in the hood was his only kinda good one and it still lacked good acting and overdoing it with the same ole same ole if you know what i mean. if you want to get a good laugh, rent this but if your looking for intense serious good acting and screenplay then forget it. i give it a 1 just cause i laughed so much. "}]