[{"Title":"Very painful view of relationships","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely not a film for all tastes. The Isle not only shows some of the most disturbing images on film but it also makes the viewer work hard to try and figure out what it all means. Especially the very last scene which I think was put there for each viewer to make they're own interpretation, as Kubrick did for the end of 2001, A Space Odyssey. Suh Jung plays Hee-Jin who rents out floating fish cabins and supplies bait, food and prostitutes. She also is a prostitute and she never utters a single word in the film. Some have called her character a mute but towards the end of the film she screams so I am thinking her silence might be of her own doing! She is attracted to one of the renters who is suicidal and is hiding out. Suh Jungs performance is very strong and its difficult to carry a film without speaking a word and the actor has to rely to a great length on how well and interesting the story is. Her performance reminds me of Isabelle Huppert in The Piano Teacher. The amount of pain between the two characters is what they have in common. This is a film about relationships in a very strange setting with two strange people. Each character has a scene involving fish hooks and when they take place its up to the other character to try and ease the pain. Good cinematography with shots of the lake at dawn or sunset with mist and fog on the water. Very tough film to view with all the self mutilation and animal cruelty. For those of you who have viewed Asian films before then you should check out this very well made film.  "},{"Title":"Fishermen's worst beautiful nightmare - and everyone else's, too","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seom aka The Isle is written and directed by Korean film maker Ki-duk Kim. This bizarre film tells about happenings in strange fishing resort in which fishermen live and fish in floating cabins at daytime, and have fun and sex with local prostitutes at night time. The film's protagonist is an attractive, but very mysterious female (Suh Jung) who never talks, and works as some kind of boat girl who gets the food and prostitutes for the fishermen and other similar activities with her little boat. There is minimal amount of dialogue in The Isle, and it is hard to describe this ultra bizarre film after just one viewing.The visuals are very astonishing and stunning as the settings are so atmospheric and natural. The calm mist and smoke above the water is very moody and even surreal, and this all is intensified even further by great use of camera, occasionally very weird angles and total feel of peace and magic. Blue is the main color in the film, and it is equally brilliant-looking as in many Hong Kong thrillers like Dr. Lamb by Danny Lee and Red to Kill by Billy Tang. The colors are always fantastic in Asian films, and The Isle once again proves and shows this. This film is a delight to the eye..at least before the infamous scenes involving fishing hooks.The director has said that he wanted to depict relationships between men and women with this film, and that the film tells something about how dependent were are on each other, and especially on another sex. Once the first horrific hook scene comes, the only cure for his pain is the main female, who by giving him carnal pleasure, takes away or diminishes his pain - and vice versa later in the film. I think that this film is more feminist since the very surreal closing scene is so underlining as the man finally finds the truth and source of all life. Another reviewer thought that the end scene is gratuitous and only there to confuse things even further, and that may be the case, but still I want to interpret it as above, and it is very personal scene in depicting that eternal truth. Seeing is believing...I think there's lot more than just this in the core of The Isle. The film really tells something about the relationship between humans and nature and nature's sources. There are many scenes depicting man exploiting nature and its inhabitants, and I think that the forthcoming scenes of mutilation are also symbolic as things turn upside down humans become the victims of what they have practised and see the results. At this point, it is necessary to stress that there are many scenes of actual killing and off putting abuse of animals (mainly fish) which I, also, think are gratuitous since the message of the film is pretty hard to take since the film does the same exploitations it depicts committed by its characters. Then again, the killings show the real face of our world, since in order to stay alive, we have to use nature's resources and there's nothing wrong in that. So what's wrong in my opinion is that the animals in The Isle are not killed without pain and suffering, and that is not right nor human since I think that no living creature should die painfully or tortured. I wanted to think that the animals were not mutilated and killed in the film for real, but it all looks sadly too real. Still, I have to find the film's merits even though it becomes far more difficult when I remember these animal snuff scenes, that are unnecessarily explicit, albeit meant to be symbolic, which they of course are, if one can still accept this after the horrific imagery.This film reminded me pretty much of Japanese film Naked Blood, which also is very beautiful and surreal film, but soon the horrific scenes of self mutilation and ultra splatter are on screen before the viewer's eyes. The self mutilations committed by fish hooks in The Isle are very gruelling to say the least, so this film will make the weakest viewers faint, as many festival screenings have proven. They are so sickeningly effective I wanted to stop thinking about what it would feel like to actually do something like that. Fish hooks are very small, but like Stuart Gordon has said (about the finger biting moment in Re-Animator), the smallest things may be the most horrific in many cases. These fish hooks really are symbolic as the humans are turned to fishes and get to see what they've done and created.The Isle is very weird, bizarre, calm and also disturbing piece of cinema, and only minority of cinema lovers will stomach and appreciate films like The Isle. As I stressed earlier, I am sorry about the fact of animal mutilation presented in the film, and without those scenes, I would probably give more stars in the rating. Now it gets little less even if I wanted to give it more as a piece of art. 8/10 and to understand more about this film, it has to be seen many times since it unfolds pretty slowly.  "},{"Title":"Challenges the audience to work for their reward, but pays off if you make it","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"43 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie that has attained a little notoriety from the number of walk-outs at festival screenings, and even a couple of audience members passing out. Whilst it is not hard to see why, it is a shame that is what the film is known for, as there is much more to it than *those* scenes.   A mute girl makes a living running a kind of retreat, where men can rent a floating cabin on a lake in the mountains and spend their days fishing, and their nights sleeping with prostitutes. The mute girl makes ends meet by taking on this role as well. A young man arrives and rents a cabin, clearly not their for the fish. We see that he is tortured and suicidal - you wouldn't guess why from the 5 second flashback that is meant to explain it, but the 'filmography' section of the DVD explains it in more detail. The mute girl is drawn to the man's desperation, perhaps feeling sympathy/protectiveness, or perhaps simply relating to another deeply unhappy soul. The relationship between these two characters, and several other characters that come to the lake for one reason or another, is the main focus of the film. The difficulty some people have with relationships is the topic being studied, particularly when they are not happy in their relationship with themselves. The inner feelings of the characters receive expression in scenes whose 'shock factor' has drawn inevitable comparisons with Takashi Miike, especially AUDITION. Director Kim Ki Duk doesn't seem to mind these comparisons KK I saw Audition at Toronto and that movie made me realize that there is someone else out there like me. We are two of a kind If you couldn't sit through the last half hour of AUDITION, you'll probably want to give THE ISLE a miss too. It's also definitely not a film for animal lovers... there is absolutely zero chance of the film being released intact in the UK or the US, as the treatment of the animals in the film (mainly fish) is far outside what is permissible in either country's regulations.But there is much more to THE ISLE than the scenes that make keeping your eyes on screen a challenge. In between, the film is absolutely ravishing, and will keep your eyes glued there. The setting of the lake, mostly bathed in deep fog, and the fantastic wordless performance from actress Jung Suh (and the rest of the cast) are beautiful and powerful. The loneliness and sadness of the characters is reflected brilliantly in the total isolation of the floating cabins. There is a deep message in the film, and it is presented to us beautifully. Like Miike, Kim Ki-Duk makes us work for our reward when we watch THE ISLE... if you want to take away the beauty of his film, you have to be willing to pay the price of the horror. Thoroughly recommended!One note the film is another one of those great films that just doesn't know how to end itself. Actually, we get the perfect ending... a nice long shot and a fade to white and it should have been over, butapparently Kim Ki Duk wasn't quite satisfied to leave it at that and tacks on two extra scenes, about a minute of footage, that are simply inexplicable and serve only to confuse and spoil the mood. My recommendation... when it fades to white, simply stop the DVD  "},{"Title":"I don't know what to think","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Isle is a hard film to evaluate.  It pulls the viewer's emotions in every different conceivable direction, from empathy to outright horror and everything in between.  After it ended I wasn't sure if I was going to cry or to throw up; I didn't know if I was sad or happy or hopelessly angry.  Either way, the film's images will probably haunt me for many years to come.The film is beautifully photographed, making excellent use of the isolated fishing lake setting.  All of the actors are perfect, even in scenes more painfully grotesque than anything I've seen in a film before.  I simply cannot imagine the artistic process that went on during production-- how did the filmmakers raise the money to make this film, and how did they direct the actors to create such convincing performances from such outlandish material?  And whose idea was it to end it like that?I loved many things about this film, but I find it hard to recommend because of a few scenes involving really heartless animal cruelty.  A fish is mutilated and partially eaten while it's still alive; a dog is yanked around by its collar and slapped; another fish is jolted with electrodes.  Of course the humans in the film suffer much worse misfortunes, but the characters mostly deserve what they get, whereas the animals do not.  Also, the scenes of human violence are created using makeup effects, but the animals have no such luck-- as far as I can tell, they're really slicing flesh off a live fish and eating it.All I can really say is, see The Isle and make up your own mind about it.  It will cause completely different individual reactions in every single member of the audience, and if you love it, good for you.  If you hate it, I think I can understand why. "},{"Title":"Float Your Boat?","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are two immutable truths in matters of the heart. None more desirable than those who do not want you; none less desirable than those you could possess with ease. Somewhere between these two axioms fall the doomed lovers of this spellbinding offering. Beautiful Hee-Jin (Jung) is the grounds keeper for a dingy Korean fishing resort, selling snacks, bait, her tits 'n' ass, to the tourists she ferries between flotillas of fishing huts.Fugitive Hyun-Shik (Yoo-Suk) shows up one day, shivering, suicidal, utterly alone. Another lost soul, Hee-Jin's smitten because, unlike her sleazy clientèle, Hyun-Shik's different. He doesn't abuse her or make fun of her muteness. And he fashions exquisite little wire sculptures for her, as they study one another across the rain-spattered lake. He in his unreachable desolation, she in her shore-side cabin, cat-like and inscrutable. The first time he tries to kill himself, by swallowing fishing hooks, she brings him back to life &#150; to love &#150; the only way she knows. From suicide to sex in three minutes. And nobody is going to get in her way. Director Kim Ki-duk, responsible for surprise Art-house hit Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter&#133;and Spring, has crafted another beautiful-horrible movie; gorgeous to look at, and often between splayed fingers. It's as minimal and soulful as a haiku. And as painful as falling in love  "},{"Title":"So many levels","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now this is a great example of horror. Not your slasher, undead walking, predictable spoon fed story. Instead, the Isle's simple setting proves that looks can be deceiving as calm waters and clear blue skies belie the murky depths and secrets hidden within.I never realized the symbolism in this movie fishing, bait, the simple action of simply tossing back an unwanted catch back in the water. Scenes most striking and prominent contained little or even no dialogue. The soundtrack is subtle, yet highly effective in establishing mood. Then again, anyone who has gone fishing can appreciate the tranquil, and peaceful state which can be very rewarding. How about human relationships? How about the bad times or deep hurts so traumatizing which cannot be shared with anyone. Do we walk burdened carrying deep pains like say a wounded scaled fish? Although it may be wounded, it still goes on swimming in its daily routine. Our two main characters throughout the film really catch you offguard. Let's just say misery loves company. This horror is more psychological and more tangible than what you would usually see on screen.I was impressed by Jung Suh who really displays the strength of Hee-Jin, and at the same time shows a frail, tragic side. Her routine actions like steering the boat, tending to the renters' are done so convincingly that you feel like you're at the lake watching true events unfold. Credit also Ki-Duk Kim for directing this without making it into a sappy love story and not going overboard or too artsy. Be warned the Isle is laced with dark humor and will have you thinking about it after it is done. I really appreciate films that are able to do that.  "},{"Title":"No Man is an Island, but...","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...a woman is.At least, that's the image underlying the title of this movie. It's set on this remote mountain lake with only a few floating fishing-huts plus a shack for Hee-Jin, the caretaker of this primitive resort. This young lady (the only permanent resident) is mute; she can make noises, so her muteness is probably caused by some psychological trauma (cf. The Painted Bird), something suggested by her personality. Although she appears to be a menial, she has the leaky boat which is the only access to and from the cabins, also she turns out to have unsuspected powers of underwater diving. Combined with her great beauty and fierce intensity, this gives her the aspect of a nature-spirit.The visiting fishermen who rent these little holiday huts are coarse brutes, who treat her like a slave; early on, they buy her services in bed, then throw the money into the water, so she has to dive for it and then dry it out. Needless to say, strange and unpleasant things soon happen to these visitors due to some mysterious underwater force.Enter another visitor, a decent and sensitive guy who amuses himself making wire sculptures when not fishing. Through seeing his nightmares we know he is a fugitive on the run after killing his unfaithful girlfriend and her companion in a fit of jealousy. Hee-Jin is almost beside herself with loneliness and frustration, however remote she may first appear, and she soon takes a fancy to the newcomer. He, tormented by memories, is about to shoot himself when a spike appears out of the lake and stabs him in the thigh, causing him to drop the gun. Later on he attempts to forestall police capture by committing suicide with fishhooks in the most gruesome way possible; she hides him, then carefully removes the hooks from his throat, then gives him artificial respiration, then makes love to him. He later repays her for her kindness by hitting her - he's terrified by the thought of a new relationship - but they go on to develop a deep attachment.There is so little dialogue that this is almost like a silent movie, and that is what gives it its immense power. Suh Jung (Hee-Jin) displays the most astonishing acting ability in an extremely difficult role. It's necessary to her character that she not speak or smile, so she has to use great skill to communicate her feelings in other ways. As remote as she is, one's heart immediately goes out to her, and her austere demeanour makes a pleasant contrast to the airheaded call-girls who sometimes get summoned to the lake by fishermen. The silence is punctuated by the sound of waves and oars, and occasionally by creepy electronic music making the atmosphere reminiscent of Aguirre, the Wrath of God. Suh Jung is obviously someone to watch for in future.The Isle reminds me of The Blue Light (1932), in which the power of nature is symbolized by an outcast woman unable to communicate, but who masters the rocky precipices that send experienced mountaineers to their doom. Leni Riefenstahl is as enigmatic as Suh Jung, so I recommend it to people who understand The Isle.One flaw is the epilogue - two metaphorical scenes not part of the narrative, which confuse the viewer. Although the scenes aren't bad, they should have been incorporated within the narrative, e.g. by being shown on a TV being watched by fishermen.I dare say that this will be remembered as one of the great movies of the 21st century, and this from Korea - a country not previously known for cinematography. Director Ki-duk Kim is obviously a talent to be reckoned with.   "},{"Title":"Deeply moving and emotional film.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ki-duk Kim's Seom/The Isle has to be one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen.The cinematography,the silence and the themes under the surface are incredible.The film explores human relationships and the pain of being in love,and being loved.Both characters(Hyun-shik and Hin-jin)are lost human beings searching for love.They crave love,yet shun it when it comes to them,as they are deeply aware of the destructive qualities it brings out in them.Suh-Shik Hwang's cinematography is absolutely beautiful and captures many impressive visuals.Still there are some horrific images that will shock casual viewer,so the viewer should be prepared.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SPOILER It is hard to understand disturbed attraction. - I might SPOIL it for you.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seom is quite unique. Not quite as brute as Audition, to which it is often compared, yet much more subtly menacing. I cannot claim to have fully understood this film, yet it does seem to me that the attraction between the mute care taker and the fugitive is purely violent. The parallelism between her muteness and him swallowing fishers hooks (note that he does not speak thereafter), and his attempted rape of the care taker and her inserting the fishers hooks into her genitals (you do not see them intimately thereafter) seems to resolve all issues between them. They have somewhat become equal, and choose to live in solitude. Having become the same, there is no reason for them to continue their desperation though - they are not alone anymore, finally. That is why (and how I disagree with other comments) it is necessary for them to die in the end (I do assume both have committed suicide).  "},{"Title":"BIZARRE","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll say this much--This director is all about RAW images...things most of us are not ready to confront head-on.  Images of sex, suicide, murder, and people relieving themselves are constantly bombarding the viewer, which makes me wonder if the director was trying to communicate the concept of relief or release. Although I don't think that I could ever see this movie again, I will say that the director does have a good eye.  There were some really nice shots and picture moments in the film (the fans, the wire fish in their hair), but the story left me needing more (strictly in the since that we were left asking ourselves what the heck did we just see?).Note If you have a tendency to gag or vomit easily...don't see this film. "}{"Title":"Kim Ki-duk at his best","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of Kim Ki-duk, ever since I watched Spring, summer... After that one, I just couldn't get enough. And now after 3-iron, Samaria, Address Unknown and finally The Isle, I can safely say, that the man is a genius.The Isle is essentially, a story about two people. People that eventually fall in love and people that are both semi disturbed. The male protagonist is clearly hunted by the police, and the female (the caretaker of 'islands') is pretending that is mute, when many scenes in the movie indicate that she really is not. Now what makes The Isle special. It's the gritting harsh undertones that mellow down to nice loving drama. The contrast between extreme torture and love and empathy is just too great. Anyone that watched Ki-duk's movies before, knows that all share a common theme. Motto 'If you do something it will come back after you' is ever present in his movies. You cannot run away from any act you do. As in most of his movies, dialogs play a REALLY small part in this one. The whole movie contains maybe 40 sentences all in all. And the female protagonist never speaks.Now all the warnings about extreme torture and 'it's too much for all to handle' are all just. The Isle sometimes just SCREAMS, as a piece itself. You feel the pain, the sadness the longing in each and every character, and sometimes the punishment they receive is just too much. But. The Isle is a movie that will not leave you untouched.The Isle is a jewel of modern Asian cinema, for me almost the best. Maybe just a tad behind Kikujiro and The Dolls of Kitano, and before many others. "},{"Title":"Mass Hallucination","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the only way I can describe the relatively high score this movie has and the raving positive reviews here. Either a unique case of mass hallucination, or people are just too embarrassed to say that they don't get it not to look unsophisticated to others!If you did not get the movie, then you are a normal intelligent person. This is because there is nothing to get. The film feels pretty exploitive and brings to mind the likes of Cannibal Holocaust and such Euro-trash, except that The Island is devoid of any plot or any element that would justify watching it. What was the need for us to see feces emerging from a guy's butt? What's the point of beating the dog mercilessly? What did the film say by slamming a frog on a rock to death or mutilating the fish? If someone tells you that watching a caged bird drowning symbolises the characters' pain, tell them that they could be slightly retarded.I bet the makers of this movie are laughing their butts out reading the positive reviews. They know that they have created a movie about an angry prostitute who meets a depressed amateur rapist then both abuse one another into a mysterious ending, yet people are finding love, pain, redemptions, and other deep meanings in their film!Not only that the contents of the movie are worthless, but the movie crafting itself is incredibly bad as well. We are supposed to believe that the girl swims 50 metres underwater in 14 seconds after stabbing the fat guy, when the men's world record for that distance is 20 seconds. We see the girl make a phone call to a prostitute and no one explains how she manages that miracle when she is mute. The policeman shoots two rounds then gives up and proclaim We've lost him, despite the man being in the water just yards from them and that they have a speedy boat ready on the other side of the raft. The editing too is faulty and careless as is obvious in the cut between dragging the dog and having it in the boat, and the sliced fish that was caught again lays on its other side between shots just before it's returned to water. And last but not least, the super cop who got stabbed forgets the stab and continues the search, and he even takes his hand off the wound and acts normally as the boat reaches the next raft. Hmmmmm! Don't see anything wrong with all of the above? Well, keep enjoying your hallucinations. I'm out of here. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Striking, Unexpected","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have not seen many remarkable motion pictures in the last few years. I may not be exposed to enough new and original creations, since Panama is not the best city to go to the cinema, monopolized by American mainstream productions. Through a fan of Asian cinema, I have lately watched a few films from Japan, China and South Korea that have really impressed me. On top of the list I place South Korean Ki-duk Kim's beautiful tale Seom, a metaphor of an erotic obsession and gender submission, which in a way reminded me of Nagisa Oshima's Aï no corrida. But while Oshima opted for a naturalistic representation of sex to narrate a true story, Kim's parable is frequently approached from a distance, with his characters' physicality and motivations subtly emerging from their actions and their placing in the beautiful fishing resort where all the story takes place. When Kim does get closer... well, you better be on guard, although the sadistic elements of the story make it more fascinating. The Isle's last images are among the most striking (and unexpected) I've seen in decades. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Painful, Disgusting, Violent, Retarded! Three Words Worst Movie Ever!","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really can't understand how could someone give this disgusting film more than 1 star... How can you like such a retarded film, where all the animal abuse scenes are real? I don't even want to imagine the excruciating pain those innocent and defenseless living beings felt in those horrific moments... Jesus... What kind of ''human'' would torture them like that for no reason, or just for money? I tell you, that director is either mentally retarded, or he's just a monster with a ''heart'' of stone. Or both. He truly deserves to get his hands cut off and burn alive.It contains various horribly barbaric scenes that may cause shock, especially to sensitive persons and children a real frog is skinned alive, fish are sadistically mutilated and thrown back into the water, a dog is beaten, birds are thrown into the water...This movie is more than awful; it has to be the worst and most retarded film ever made, along with another one, called ''Cannibal Holocaust'' or something like that. I'll never watch or buy any film directed by this heartless monster. No one should waste their time watching it, especially when there are a lot of TRULY great movies out there, in which all the animal abuse scenes are staged.Fortunately, only a few people liked this - which is natural, since it's the worst film ever -, so it wasn't successful. I hope this will make the retarded director realize that such unjustified barbaric acts of extreme cruelty and violence to REAL animals will NEVER be praised, and that he will stage all the animal abuse scenes in his following films. I truly believe that everyone receives but what they give! There will be a day when all the retarded and cruel ''humans'' will feel the same pain they once inflicted to others.This, however, is probably my only ''negative'' review. I usually don't comment on a movie if I dislike it, but this time I just couldn't shut up. I had to speak the truth, because animal abuse must stop! "},{"Title":"Masterful film-making","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm fast becoming a fan of Korean director Kim Ki-duk; this is the second film of his I've watched after SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN, WINTER...AND SPRING. The two films have much in common in terms of style and setting, but THE ISLE is something else entirely. While SPRING was a heartwarming story that championed the Buddhist lifestyle, THE ISLE is an extraordinarily dark tale of obsession and broken psychology.One again, Kim Ki-duk has crafted an expertly visual film; THE ISLE looks fantastic and the setting of those floating holiday lettings is an exceptional one. The characters are painted in broad strokes but this makes them thoroughly interesting and it goes without saying that the subdued acting is fantastic. This is a slow burner of a film, yes, but a thoroughly satisfying one all the same, in which the atmosphere is interspersed with some eye-popping set-pieces; if this doesn't put you off fishing then I don't know what will.Although the infliction of pain is upsetting in the extreme, there are always good reasons for what occurs here, making this as far from torture porn as you'll get. The only issue I have with it really is the real-life animal cruelty, something I'm dead set against, but the UK DVD thankfully excises much of this material. In any case, I can't wait to check out more from the director. "},{"Title":"Painful introspection of a directors mind","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I generally don't give worry much about violence in films, or a vast amount of philosophy, symbolism or psychology. All this is very well with me and the film brings a lot of the above to us. There is beautiful pictures especially of the lake and the nature, a good setting of characters, a good direction. This film could be voted for as a good film. However, it is spoiled for two reasons and both of these reasons in relation make this film simply disgusting.First of all there is violence used against living creatures to make this film. Not movie violence, I am talking about REAL violence. This violence alone maybe could be justified if not and thats reason number two; the message of the film was not mere introspection about the directors twisted relation towards women. Not that we all don't have some real twists with women.(respectively men). But the conclusion of the film ruins it all. *spoiler* Our heroine finally dies, (by here own hand if I remember correctly I saw this film years ago and it enraged me, now the guy is out with a new film witch I am certainly not going to watch)and is now even more clearly depicted as some kind of natural demon, nature growing over her, in particular her sex.. Of course it is the director who kills the women heroine. Women have to die, especially if men are attracted by their sexuality. That seems to be the final conclusion.**end spoiler*Well, well all that possibly would be fine with me if the director would have kept his view to himself. But to use big pictures, artsy directions cruelty to living creatures, just to say men can be frightened of women, and men are cruel to women. Thats just not enough. I knew when I saw this film it would achieve good critics for the philosophical, eastern and artistic and whatever approach. But to me this film is just totally marred. "},{"Title":"What was Kim thinking?","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Is this the same Kim Ki Duk who directed the poignant, life-spanning testimonial of Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring? The same Kim Ki Duk who directed the exquisite, nearly silent, heartbreaking longing of 3 Iron? The same Kim Ki Duk who dazzled us with the staggering tragedy of The Coast Guard and made us squirm about the ugliness of nonchalant teenage prostitution before returning to his almost patented nature motif to allow us all (characters and viewers alike) to experience redemption in Samaritan Girl? I just cannot seem to find him in this film.Oh, sure, Kim's nature motif is still present. The film takes place entirely on a lake surrounded by mountains and on fishing floats resting placidly on the surface of calm waters. Yes, it's Kim Ki Duk, all right. Kim even describes the film as beautiful in an interview included in the DVD's special features. But I'm not sure anymore what that means after viewing this putrescent presentation.What is beautiful about angry, potty-mouthed prostitutes, lustful, violent and potty-mouthed fishermen, a covetous mute merchant, explicit animal torture, sequences of self-mutilation and a pace that swings nauseatingly between bestial carnality and mindless brutality? These are the only elements of humanity that present themselves in this utterly confounding and ultimately pointless film. If it is based on a fable or intended as a parable or is meant to be symbolic of something greater, this reviewer is unfamiliar with the source material. It has been favorably compared to Audition by Japanese director Takashi Miike (much to Kim's satisfaction), but aside from some astonishingly good performances, especially given what they had to work with, by lead actors Seo Jung and Kim Yoo Suk, I find little reason to recommend this film. I have not seen Audition, but I doubt it would alter in any way my view of The Isle. Its violence is pornographic and senselessly sadistic. Its sex is not pornographic, but passionless and masochistic. Characters behave on irritating impulse because there is no plot. Its point is either non-existent or, I will admit, lost amidst Korean cultural quirks that I fail to understand.The only beauty is in the cinematography, which is classic Kim fog-shrouded boats lapping slowly across a serene lake, mountainous terrain dominating the background, and an imaginative and playful use of color. At times it seems as if viewers are locked in a big Kim Ki Duk romper room. Some touches, like the mysterious and seductive mute merchant played by Jung and the pleasantly odd use of motorbikes, are intriguing. But as a film, this effort is downright confusing and, in the end, offensive to the senses, not necessarily to sensibilities. One hopes that Kim will leave this kind of film-making in the trash heap of his past, for we know he is capable of so much more. "},{"Title":"Unusual But Original Film","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I gotta give it to the makers of 'The Isle'. Really, they should get a 10 for originality because there are quite a lot of things you'll see here that, I assure you, exists in no other film.At the risk of ruining the element of surprise for you I won't say what you'll see; suffice it to say, this film is worth your attention because watching it feels like you're peeking into a world quite unlike any you've seen on Earth. That's the feeling I got, anyway, like it was a surreal movie filmed on Jupiter and exported down here to us.I get this feeling that the makers actually sat down and said, You know what? Cinema is redundant these days. There's nothing original anymore. All the dramas are the same. All the thrillers are the same. All the horrors are carbon copies of each other. Let's go out of our way to present something, with the limited budget we have, that an audience has never seen before. And they succeeded.Again, I'm not giving anything away other. The film, as presented, is absolutely sublime. The cinematography alone is worth the price of admission; everything else you see on screen is just icing on the cake. Definitely one of the best Korean films ever. "},{"Title":"A tour de force of South Korean cinema...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Isle (aka Seom) is somewhat of an acquired taste of movie, and it does stand out in the South Korean cinema as being very original and bold in its own way. And with that said, then this is the type of movie that doesn't appeal to just everyone in the audience.The story is about a mute woman named Hee-Jin who works at a fishing resort, where she sell bait, food and even herself to the visiting fishermen. She falls in love with the reclusive Hyun-Shik, whom is running from the police.There isn't a lot of dialogue in the entire movie, which could be odd for some people. But what the movie doesn't have in dialogue, it more than makes up for in visual presentation. Director Ki-Duk Kim really managed to tell a beautiful story in The Isle.The acting talents in The Isle were also doing great work with their individual roles, especially since there were not all that much dialogue, so there was a higher pressure in terms of acting through gestures, body language and mood. And especially Jung Suh (playing Hee-Jin) was impressive in The Isle, as she performed phenomenally.It is the visuals in The Isle that makes it a formidable movie. It is so well-filmed and the acting talents all contributed to make this a memorable movie. Some scenes are quite graphic and brutal to watch, but they are presented in a great way and they are essential to the movie.The Isle is a unique moment in the South Korean cinema, and it is a movie that you should sit down to watch if you enjoy Asian movies. "},{"Title":"Unsettling quiet suspense","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Isle is one of the few movies I've seen in a long time where silence is used to its full extent. It's a movie of very little music, very few lines of dialogue and even the ambient sound is that hollow echo of a lake where everything is muted and misty. And yet it works so well for the purposes of this particular story.Hee-jin (Jung Suh) is a mute young woman who runs and maintains a removed lake fishing resort where a fleet of floating cabins are rented for those wanting peace and quiet. Most of her usual customers are middle-aged men who are mostly interested in fishing, drinking and occasionally her body. Our story starts when a disquieted man (Yoosuk Kim) arrives at her resort, looking to hide from the world.The Isle is a movie of reflection. It's that lazy hour sitting on the porch, drinking coffee, staring at nothing, thinking nothing in particular. And thus, when things start to build up, it takes you a moment to shake off the cobwebs, allowing the movie to deliver some real gut punches. At its heart of hearts it's a thriller, but honestly I have rarely been as nauseated or scared by a horror movie than I was by this one.The Isle is a fantastic movie for someone looking for a quiet thriller that takes its time and trusts itself enough to allow for the suspense to build as slowly as it needs to build. The pacing is just perfect, the story ends just when it needs to and as a whole it's an experience. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"A concoction of disturbed minds..","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS**** I usually write reviews which are very simple and basic for people like me with not a lot of technical know how of cinema would understand.Various other aspects of cinema only critiques and hardcore movie buffs tend to comprehend are not our cup of tea.That does not mean, we do not understand a good film. Quite honestly, i do not know what to make of this film,especially the ending.Its too deep and very ambiguous for my liking.A fishing resort owner,a lady who apparently loses her husband looses all sense of belonging and living merely in existence finds hope and solace in a guest who has his own story.(left for countless other interpretation)A concoction of two disturbed minds with masochistic tendencies. A lot of people out there might think the girl is really a mute. Mind you She is not.She chooses not to speak.It is just one of kim ki duks trademarks.Say nothing let the expression and the sound track do the talkingI rate this movie a 6.5/10.It takes you on a never ending tube to a persons disturbed psyche.I reiterate Never Ending..Not recommended if you are already stressed. "},{"Title":"I literally said WTH did I just watch?","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film gives you that heavy, unexplainable, load after watching. There's not much child-friendly scenes going on, and that's what made me love this. There's cruelty and profanity everywhere, with the injection of, on its face, irrelevant scenes which were either intentionally placed to stir our brains, or were unintentionally left by a director who lacked ideas. I have to believe its the former.The Isle actually made me laugh, because the scenes were just so explicit, overt and straightforward that I can't help but be amazed at Kim's confidence. I honestly can't believe he had the guts to do all those stuff. He takes the risk to employ moral and social taboos in his films and that's what I like about him. He doesn't hold back just to please everyone.The story isn't messy, too. There's room for interpretations but the movie still gave away its own essence. Actually, if you were to summarize the story, you can do it in a sentence or two. What made the movie complex is Kim's approach. I think he failed on his approach in 3-iron but he was successful this time. Perhaps because he coursed through the more understandable route--hit what you wan't to say in your movie without lingering, but do it painfully straight to scar the viewer--that's what he did! I think any social and moral controversy you can think of can be found in this movie..rape, prostitution, poverty, animal cruelty, torture, lust, murder, name it. It's all here.I can totally understand how some scenes probably scared and scarred a lot of viewers. And I can totally understand how some might view him as a provocateur. I, on the other hand, believe otherwise. The movie might not be accommodating to those who have weak stomachs, but there lies the beauty of this film.The Isle won't bore you, because its either the explicit sex scenes will hold your attention, or the previous metal-eating, vomit-inducing, scene still consumes your thoughts. This for me, is a timeless masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Isle","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You won't believe what people get up to with fishing hooks in this movie... it's safe to say, you'll never look at cod the same way again. Mind you, the entire premise, based around little floating huts which double as miniature brothels in the middle of a lake is pretty weird too... who would hire one of these potential death traps would be my first question. Particularly as the only staff on duty in the event of an emergency is a mute young woman prone to violent mood swings and popping up where you least expect her. Nope, a hotel room sounds like a much safer and comfortable option for a quickie. And if you MUST have that nautical experience... make sure it has a water bed.Aside from scratching my head every few minutes, I didn't know quite what to make of this curiosity from South Korea. It has a few scenes which will make you wince, but it's not really a horror. As a romance, it showcases a relationship so whacked-out and off the curve that it's impossible to relate to either party. I suppose you could classify it as a sort-of drama, but what transpires is far removed from any interpretation of life I know, I have a hard time doing even that. For me, the best explanation is it's an experimental work, with plenty of neat ideas which fail to mesh into a cohesive whole. The ending especially is all kinds of WTF?Still, the talent is there... even if the storytelling aspect is lacking. I look forward to perusing the rest of this director's filmography... 5/10 "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a trippy movie. As with all Ki-duk Kim movies the cinematography was stunning, and the music really added to the movie. This is the second film of his I have seen where the main character doesn't utter a single word. But that doesn't take anything away from the amazing performance Jung Suh put on, as the very mysterious and sometimes scary clerk/prostitute. She genuinely gave me the chills at some points in the movie. I read that a lot of the audience walked out from this movie because of the violence that was on display. It did make me cringe a little, but I felt it was very relevant to the movie. There has also been complains about animal cruelty, specifically hacking a live fish into pieces. It didn't bother me none, it wasn't torture. The movie deals with depression and loneliness, but in a very original way. You as a viewer are made to make a lot of the conclusions yourself, and I like that. It is not a popcorn movie, and like his other films there isn't really a plot. But it is still a very good movie, and it kept me entertained until the end, and left me with a lot to think about. Something I value in a movie. "},{"Title":"Places Where Fishhooks were never meant to be","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director Kim Ki-duk Duration 90 MinutesOn a small island the mute Hee-Jin supports herself by operating an odd fishing site in which small houses are constructed on rafts. To aid her patrons Hee-Jin paddles out in a small boat and sells such things as bait and coffee to the fishermen. Besides the mundane items, Hee-Jin also sells her body to the fishermen who seem to consider her little more than part of the fishing tour package. Besides selling her own body, Hee-Jin also transports prostitutes in her rickety motorboat to her patrons. Remaining completely silent, Hee-Jin lives out her days in this dreary manner.One day, however, a new patron arrives. Carrying only a couple of bags and his pet bird, Hyun-shik rents the yellow raft and spends his time in solitude. Haunted by his past actions, Hyun-shik plans to kill himself, but he cannot find the gall to do so. Miserable in his existence, Hyun-shik bursts out crying and unbeknownst to him Hee-Jin watches him at his most vulnerable. Moved by this spectacle of emotion, Hee-Jin does her best to attract Hyun-shik in her silent way until one rainy day she rows her boat over to the yellow raft and offers herself to Hyun-shik. However, instead of trying to make love to her, Hyun-shik rips off Hee-Jin's clothes and attempts to rape her. A strong woman, Hee-Jin is able to force off Hyun-shik and escape. This attack, however, does not mean Hee-Jin has given up on Hyun-shik.After a young prostitute becomes attracted to Hyun-shik because of his quiet nature, Hee-Jin becomes increasingly violent which is aimed at first at animals and later towards other people. However, it seems that Hee-Jin has a history of violence herself and is not afraid to use it if it gains what she wants.Infamous for its scenes in which fishhooks are put in places fishhooks are not meant to be and its scenes of animal cruelty towards birds, frogs, fish, and dogs, The Isle is a silent and slightly disturbing film. With almost no dialogue, Kim Ki-duk creates an atmosphere that is quite intense. The scenes between Hee-Jin and Hyun-shik are simultaneously frightening for possibility of violence and quite tender. There is one scene in which Hyun-shik fans Hee-Jin that must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"The UN-Happy Hooker","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what it is about lakes and islands that fascinates Ki-duk Kim - he followed this 2000 entry with Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring ... - but whatever it is it makes for classy cinema. This time around it's ostensibly the story of Harpo Marx sound-alike Suh Jung who ekes out a living ferrying supplies to fisherman who have chosen to pursue their sport from a series of small houses built on rafts which in turn are anchored at regular intervals on a large lake. It's never explained why a reasonably attractive girl would choose to make a living in this fashion or, indeed, where she gets the supplies to ferry to the fishermen (an obvious exception being her body which, on occasion, she throws in for a fee and as a reward has the money thrown at her/into the water) but I guess we're not supposed to worry about things like that. One day Yoosuk-Kim hires her to take him to one of the house-rafts and for whatever reason she takes a fancy to him. Little does she know he is on the lam after killing his girlfriend. Time passes - it's that kind of movie - occasionally a hooker or two is ferried out to a fisherman and ferried back again. Yoosuk-Kim fashions figures out of wire and then casually introduces three large fish hooks into his throat the way you do. Luckily Suh Jung is on hand with a pair of pliers and a warm body in lieu of Band-Aids. More time passes -now Suh Jung introduces a set of equally large fish hooks into her vagina but by a stroke of good fortune she left the pliers where Yoosuk-Kim could find them. If you've ever seen 'Mash' you'll know that frivolity/black humor is often a way of dealing with stuff you'd rather not HAVE to deal with. If you read my comments with that in mind you may well reach the conclusion that I'm not actually sending up what is in effect a poetic, often visually stunning and ultimately disturbing film. 7/10  "},{"Title":"No intellectual value, just exploitation","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, first of all I want to point out, that I don't have any problem with portraits of graphic violence in movies whatsoever, as far as it's somehow justified by the plot, delivers at least some sort of irony or -which is far better - serves a reasonable purpose. A good example for the latter is Pasolini's Salò o le 120 giornate di Sodoma, one of the most disturbing and violent films ever made. But it all makes sense in this case, since Pasolini created an intellectual statement against fascism (etc.) that intentionally generates here and there a certain impact on the viewer. The sometimes extreme and almost unwatchable sequences suit the equally extreme subject and are therefore justified It's all completely different with Seom, which fails in adding any intellectual value to the gross images. The movie is either tedious or disgusting, with some rare sequences of good acting and a generally well-done photography. The story A young woman lives nearby a lake and manages some raft-like constructions with little cabins on them, mainly used by anglers. She provides food and other stuff and offers love services from time to time. Suddenly the male lead arrives, fatally attracts her and things go their way, fish-hooks within people and plenty scenes of real animals being tortured or killed included.The movie is completely image-driven and tries to come across as arty-farty and philosophical, but it didn't work for me. Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing film not requiring animal violence","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie itself is amazing. I think it would be amazing without the violence toward animals. There is no need for it. The human behavior toward one another is horrible without bringing animals into it. The tortured souls trying to reach one another are amazing characters. They try to reach each other but the internal struggles keep them apart. Hee-Jin (Jung Suh) runs a business renting out little shacks on a lake to men who come to fish and consort with prostitutes. From time to time Hee-Jin also offers her body to the men. Usually they're loud, boorish men, but one day, a quiet, troubled man named Hyun-Shik (Yoosuk Kim) comes to stay. The two have their demons though and their troubles combine to ensure a painful story of two souls who can't quiet connect. The acting is great, the cinematography is very good, and so is Kim Ki Deok's direction. This is obviously not a happy movie so there isn't as much need to convey such a wide range of emotions as in some movies. That said, Jung Suh and Yoosuk Kim are very understated and their actions, as bold as some of them are, fill in admirably for overstated emotionalism. Some of the scenes are almost impossible to watch for the physically wrenching pain they represent. There are undoubtedly things in here you have never seen on film. The contrast of a serene environment and emotional alienation is jarring. I really wish Kim Ki Deok wouldn't use animal violence in his movies. There is no need for it. Yes, it might enhance the sense of emotional violence, but it's completely uncalled for. Kim Ki Deok highlights the turbulent inner lives of troubled souls and shines light on them. It's not pleasant but it is powerful, brave film-making casting a light on those whom society forgets. "},{"Title":"A hymn for Nature, wild, mysterious, fatal, fascinating","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I attended some time ago an exhibition of Isamu Noguchi. Once an assistant of Brancusi, he assimilated fully the lesson of his master. Actually he deeply understood and assimilated Brancusi, Giacometti, the Polinesians, and the Japanese. He passed them all through his filter and remained himself. His work is a Universe recreated through his non-Euclidian geometry, in dialog with Brancusi's geometry, with Giacometti's finesse, with Polinesians' suggestive force, with Japonese subtlety - all these becoming him and expressing him.I was thinking at Noguchi while watching Seom. A critic said that Seom is perversely intriguing and intriguingly perverse. And this is it, the movie enchants you in a very mysterious way, somehow beyond decency. The grotesque is sliding towards sensual, which seamlessly becomes cruelty, cruelty is reaching the grotesque, real is sliding into dream, dreams and thoughts mix with real, surrealism is here at home.This movie is erotic, while horror, while grotesque, and you feel a subtle sense of black humor, that balances all components.Kim Ki-Duk also assimilated the lesson of some great masters, French and German ones, passed them through his filter, made them him. Marcel Carne, Quai des Brumes, then the German Expressionists, Murnau, Lange, one feels in Seom the echoes from Dr. Caligari, from Nosferatu, from Dr. Mabuse.And, above all, Leni Riefenstahl - Hee Jin from Seom and Junta from Das Blaue Licht - they are good sisters! And perhaps this gives us the key for the deepest level of the movie - a hymn for Nature, wild, mysterious, fatal, fascinating. "},{"Title":"a PERFECT ENDING for a PERFECT FILM","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An earlier writer states that the film leaves one asking What the heck did we just see?If she means that the end makes one rethink the entire film, she is correct. If she means, the end is confounding, then I think she misread the final sequence.Without giving too much away, the narrative ends when our happy homemakers move to a bigger pond.  The isolated marsh coda merely provides a comment on their relationship... a comment that invites one to revisit everything that went before. "}{"Title":"Mystical, enigmatic, sexual, brutal by a misty lake","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This beautiful shot film is about the (by choice?) mute Hee-Jin who oversees some huts floating in a lake. She picks up visitors, give them food, prostitutes and so on. Some come here to unwind, others maybe running from something. The female protagonist Hee-Jin is excellently played by Suh Jung who hasn't played in too many movies yet, but watch out, she may be a future star. With special powers and an incredibly strong will and psyche she controls the men willy nilly on the raft-huts. This maybe the theme for this movie, how men often are trying to be dominant and in power, but in reality always is by the mercy of the female? Not many a word is uttered in this movie and it doesn't have to. Silence sometimes talks much more, communicating the desperation and needs of the people through actions, body talk and general understanding of the moods. "},{"Title":"In the Realm of Femme Fatale","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic,mesmerizing work!For me it was the best Korean Movie I've seen in a Film Festival with Korean movies from 1998-2001.Best because it went under my skin, with a mythical female goddess figure unseen since the classic Femme Fatale-movies like Suna no Onna,In the Realm of the Senses and Basic Instinct.One sees totally original images, a parable both repulsive and fascinating...   "},{"Title":"Like a hook in mouth","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From minute one, there´s one thing about this movie that hooks you and no matter how hard you pull, you can´t just let go, and at the end you are dragged out of the water and it ends like that, and even in some time you might feel you can´t even breathe. The Isle is about loneliness and how a feeling like this drives us into things we never expected to do. Obsession, despair, denial, passion, and at the end the inevitability of death. But...Can we really judge the girl for doing such monstruosities in name of love and to save the only person she cares for?. And can we also judge this man for rejecting her after what he has lived in the past?.But after some time, the film is about the acknowledgement that a woman needs a man, and a man needs a woman, and love is the only thing that is worth living or dying for. This is definitely not a cherry movie, yet it is a movie that has beautiful moments of loneliness and the company that both characters offer to each other. And on the other side, the visceral use of the fishing hooks, that reaffirms the moments that need to show the misery and pain that they had inside.A metaphoral movie, with a very deep meaning, but not for the weak stomach though. At the end, a visceral poem, that ends up like most tragic love stories should end.   "},{"Title":"Brave. Poetry, baits and flesh","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Join the special sense of beauty of modern asian filmmakers, with their most hidden and bizarre obsessions on human being and sex. It's Seom, an exercise of mental clarity daring to hit straight to the audience. Some of the hardest experiences i ever had in front of a screen, a pice of masterwork delivering me anthropology thoughts from the solitude in the world to the pleasure of pain. Love and hate driven to the maximum, but never having to explain. Tetsuo + Dersu Uzala = a film to be prepeared to. If you liked it i'd recomend Sweet Movie, Tetsuo, Cyclo and any Cronemberg's or Julio Medem's. "},{"Title":"The Isle - or what not to do with fishhooks","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Isle is a beautiful love story between a woman - merchant and transporter by day and prostitute by night and a suicidal murderer. The sensuality is heavy, the feelings intense – both good and bad ones.It would have been an intriguing story anyway, and I would have been happier with it, if our ever naughty Ki-duk wouldn’t have felt the need to drench it in blood for extra shock value.The epitome of this film would be when the said suicidal murderer extracts some bloody fishhooks form the said woman’s vagina, placing two of them very romantically in the shape of a heart.Like in Spring, Summer... by the same director, most of the action takes place on a lake, and like in that movie we witness a quite great deal of animal mutilation and torture. The most memorable scenes in this respect are when a fisherman catches a fish, then slices some serious chunks of meat from it, that he immediately consumes with his lady friend, then releases the rest of the fish into the water, where it continues to swim, or when the main male character catches an alive fish, then furiously cuts it with many knife strokes into many small bloody pieces.Prostitutes, pimps, cops, guns and many fishhooks used in all the wrong ways populate this movie. I made the uninspired choice of eating while watching this movie, especially whilst one of the horrific fishhook episodes and I tell you - it wasn’t a particularly good idea. "},{"Title":"The most painful cinematic experience","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the Isle is a trap. a real one.  Almost speechless, this Korean movie is a slow-paced lynchean nightmare that grabs you since the beginning to haunt you for days  after the viewing.  Never have I seen a location so wonderfully used this isle is in fact a lake covered with small floating houses rent to fishermen. A young savage girl seems to be the owner of the place. She provides fishermen with worms, hooks and from times to times... sex. The coming of a suicidal young fisherman will drive her in a whirlpool of deadly passion. Not to put before everyone's eyes... I warned you! The whole theatre was stretching and bending with pain on their seats! And...well...animals' lovers, keep away too... "},{"Title":"Bizarre and disturbing movie","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A mentally retarded young woman is living near a remote small lake. She makes her living by supplying useful goods, fishing tools and prostitutes to the fishermen and sometimes sleeps with them for money. The fishermen are living in very small cabins floating on the lake. One day, she falls in love with one of them. Besides this, one of the call-girls becomes attracted to him and visits him in her spare time. But he has a dark past and came to this remote place to commit suicide. After an unsuccessful try involving fishing hooks (!), he is saved by the retarded girl, who became jealousy of the call-girl and then kills her by accident...Here we have another strange Asian movie that somehow plays like an arthouse horror film. Director Ki-Duk Kim wanted to make a metaphorical movie about isles and love (a woman's isle is a man, a man's isle is a woman). He creates a mysterious and fascinating, but at the same time disturbing atmosphere in this movie about poor people living in their own world like on... an isle far away from modern civilization. On the other side, undefendable shots of gruesome violence against animals and some almost unwatchable scenes involving fishing hooks make for a hard experience to sit through, and plot-wise too just not everything made sense in the intended way to me. Bizarre and very different from common horror movies, I'd still recommend The Isle to everyone interested in Asian cinema. "},{"Title":"Glacial and sometimes grisly","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was an odd one. A mixture of some of the most serenely beautiful cinematography one can imagine, and high quality acting, in a weird story with occasional moments of cruel savagery. At the end, I wasn't sure what the film was supposed to mean, beyond possibly some comment about the nature of beauty and cruelty. I enjoyed the images, and the general turn of events, and although some may find the treatment of animals in the film disturbing I found that it contributed in artistically if not literally meaningful way to the film. Besides, the fish that are harmed are eaten, so the scenes are rarely gratuitous seeming. There's people violence in the movie too, in fact there are some arrestingly gruesome moments scattered in the film, and there's certainly a good deal of menace and dark intrigue. Ultimately though, the film just didn't seem quite engaging or meaningful enough to me. I could certainly have done with more dialogue and more compelling characters, this would have helped me understand more of what the film was trying to say. But unfortunately I ended up enjoying this one on mostly a visual level, without the drama actually touching me too much. "},{"Title":"Not for the Squeamish but, Damn! If it wasn't the Best Film I've seen All Year! ambiguous, bizarre, gory, horrifying, allegorical and metaphysically resonant; See it the first chance you get!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Thanks to the guy at the Cinemateque who recommended this film at the Donald Cammell retrospective; I'm so glad I saw it, it was beyond anything I ever expected.  I've been disappointed so many times at so many so-called 'exceptional' films that I barely got my rear-end to the screening. After an excruciating wait of a few minutes through an idiotic trailer, I was riveted to the screen blew me away from first shot to the last! This isn't a mere 'horror' film, it's an almost mythical psychological investigation into the dark side of things and 'amorality,' which is what is ignored or repressed in everyday life, and quite frankly, needs to be dealt with in an 'elegant' if fashion.  That's the essence of most things artistically valuable, that 'elegant,' implied, indirect way of showing people how to 'sin correctly,' how to deal with the 'amoral' without being engulfed by it. That's what The Isle achieves, and that's extremely rare!First of all, the location that the film was shot in, is simultaneously mysterious, beautiful, and absurd. A beautiful misty lake with little brightly colored boat-houses on it, barely big enough to sleep in, where people go to fish. The cinematography is flawless, the entire film full of beautiful shots that never seem forced or done just to show off. The music is never intrusive and when used never forces an interpretation on the viewer. The beautiful lead actress (Suh Jung) playing the mute girl who lives at the resort and occasionally prostitutes herself for money is beyond charismatic, a 'natural feminist' caught in 'man's world' situations beyond her control, a tough, hardened wild child yet thoroughly feminine.  She falls in love with a crazy, suicidal, mysterious guy in one of the boat houses, who seems to have a heart of gold. Many crazy and some very graphic and disgusting scenes later (a few of them involving drowning people on fish-hooks quite absurd, though strangely enough the cumulative force of the images is such that it matters very little) I was flabbergasted to learn that the film was shorter than 90 minutes! It seemed I had spent an eternity knowing this locale and hanging out with the characters! All I can say is I think this film is a masterpiece and I'm giving it The HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION! Ki-Duk Kim is a director to watch, and to judge by this film Edward Yang and Wong Kar-Wai don't a have thing on him; in fact, what he's done here in the 'horror' genre is arguably a rarer feat. See The Isle the first chance you get, it is THE Korean film to see; you will be truly shocked, touched on a deep level, and intellectually stimulated at the same time. "},{"Title":"Waste of time...","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie sucked so bad. The cruelty and slow pace just didn't do it for me. I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters. I couldn't sympathize with any of te persons in Ichi the killer, but that movie had other redeeming qualities... such as cartoony gore and no animal cruelty... Why did they have to beat a dog to make this sorry excuse for a movie??? The movie makes no sense at all! Just look at the message board Nobody gets the ending, but everyone thinks it's great. Do yourself a favor and avoid this stinker! There are a lot of good (even great) Asian movies out there... This isn't one of them! This movie sucked so bad. The cruelty and slow pace just didn't do it for me. I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters. I couldn't sympathize with any of te persons in Ichi the killer, but that movie had other redeeming qualities... such as cartoony gore and no animal cruelty... Why did they have to beat a dog to make this sorry excuse for a movie??? The movie makes no sense at all! Just look at the message board Nobody gets the ending, but everyone thinks it's great. Do yourself a favor and avoid this stinker! There are a lot of good (even great) Asian movies out there... This isn't one of them! "}{"Title":"One Of The Worst Movie EVER!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie didn't make sense... All you see is fishermen having sex with this prostitute, and taking dumps in the water... Sometimes they slap her... And most disturbing is that they beat up a dog, and throw a living bird in a cage in the water... Don't waste time with this! Really... And the actors are super bad! I see a lot of Asian movies, and the most of them are really cool, but this one is s...! There's a scene where a guy swallows a hook, and bleeds out of his mouth, then the hooker comes to the house and see him lying there. Then she throws him the water, and his there for a couple of minutes, then she pulls him up with a fish line, and saves him... even though people normally would be dead by that. Stay away from this one! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Movie just never really went no where. Could have summoned the whole thing up in about 10 minutes and it still would have been to long. Before anyone starts with the standard Hollywood BS - there are many foreign films I love. Just happens that I don't get what the hype over this one is. Just thought it was junk as far as movies go. Boring as all hell (and yes, there are some slow moving movies I do like - they just better eventually go somewhere). As far as foreign movies go I thought City of God, Memories of Murder, Bittersweet Life, and Save the Green Planet where all great films. I keep hearing the Isle listed in the same class as these movies and I just don't even think it is close to any of these. I don't know - guess we all have different taste. "},{"Title":"Sh!t floats","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the whole 90 minutes of this film, almost nothing happens. There's about 10 lines of dialogue. It's not even set on an island! Some lake has these little floating huts that people inexplicably live in and fish on. A mute girl who sells bait arranges hookers to visit these weird, floating fisherman when she can't be bothered spreading her own legs. Every night she swims around in the darkness and sometimes spies on them through the toilet. What? One guy in particular really fancies her. But he's on the lam from the law because of some crime that is hinted at in a dream but never defined. One day the cops turn up and ask questions so he decides now is the best time to swallow a bunch of fishing hooks. What? The mute girl kills a hooker. She chucks her body and scooter out into the middle of the lake. The cops turn up and start asking questions so she attaches fishing hooks to her vagina with the rod in a boat that is sailing away. Obviously when the line tightens somethings gonna give...I am assuming this film is mostly metaphor. But it's a pretentious bore of a metaphor that is painful to sit through. And what's the deal with showing so many people crimping a length off? Do I need to see that? Don't waste your time with this film. "},{"Title":"A Movie Not For The Weak At Heart","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kim Ki-duk's The Isle is definitely a great film that has an unlikely appeal and it is definitely not for the weak at heart. It stars Suh Jung and Kim Yoosuk as the mute Hee-Jin and a man running from the law,Hyun- Shik respectively.Both are an unlikely couple who develop a love for each other despite the unusual circumstances. The story is about Hee-jin, who operates a fishing resort, where she rents out small floating cottages and ferries her customers back and forth between land and the floats, controlling the only means of transport around. She also dispassionately takes care of her customers' needs by selling supplies, providing prostitutes or occasionally acting as one herself. However, when a man running from the law,Hyun-shik,comes to the resort, a bond starts to form between them.He arrives at the resort and is ferried to his float by Hee-jin. There is nothing unusual about their business relationship from the onset, but eventually Hee-jin is intrigued by Hyun-shik's feelings of depression and desolation. When visiting his float one time, Hee-jin still resists Hyun-shik's forceful advances but does call in a prostitute to service him. Hyun-shik, however,only wants companionship from the prostitute and a relationship starts to form between them.However,an unlikely bond and relationship developed between them.Hee-jin looks after Hyun-shik, even saving him from two suicide attempts,the second one accomplished gruesomely by swallowing a string of fish hooks. A prostitute continues to take more and more time off her schedule to visit Hyun-shik, oblivious to his troubles and eventually Hee-jin becomes jealous. During one visit, Hee-jin ferries the prostitute to an empty float instead of Hyun-shik's, ties her up and duct tapes her mouth shut, which eventually leads to her death as she falls into the sea.The prostitute's pimp, who comes to find out what's happening, is also killed by Hee-jin.After the murders, Hyun-shik's and Hee-jin's relationship stalls.He wants to leave the resort,but she won't let him. When he attempts to swim out,she has to save him and take him back to his float.Then he takes the boat and is set to leave. Hee-jin apparently attempts suicide in an effort to stop him by stuffing fish hooks into her vagina and falling into the water. This time it's his turn to save her, by reeling her in with the still attached hooks.Both continue their troubled relationship. A prostitute accidentally kicks a man's rolex into the water, infuriating him. He calls divers to have them retrieve the watch. The divers discover the bodies of the prostitute and the pimp while Hee-jin and Hyun-shik wordlessly take off on his float. The film concludes in enigmatic fashion when it shows Hee- jin's dead body floating in the boat.The movie tries to explore about two people who are affected by depression and desolation as well as the primal behavior and brutalities men are inherently capable of.Aside from that,it also tries to examine the complexity of the relationship between Hee-jin and Hyun- shik especially the emotion of loneliness and one's need of companionship.The movie is not without controversy as some elements of the film like the use of fish hooks during attempted suicide scenes can present horror to the viewers. Finally,this film will definitely leave a big imprint into one's thoughts especially the final scene wherein it seems that Hyun-shik apparently killed Hee-jin in the end.It will encourage discussions in terms of the sense of brutality a human being is capable of.The film was well-acted.Sexy Korean actress,Suh Jung,whom I have previously seen in Green Chair and Yellow Flower,shines in this movie as her capability to show emotion without uttering a single word is a feat indeed.She truly captured the emotion of unhappiness and need for love that Hee-jin wants.I find a lot of honesty in her performance as she managed they get the viewer's sympathy for her character.This is the best film I have seen her to date.No question that she is not only a good looking actress with a sexy body but a talented one as well.She also shared a great chemistry with Kim Yoosuk,who was credible as Hyun- shik. Added to that,Kim Ki-duk's direction was masterful as the viewer is completely engaged in the story from beginning to end.Aside from that,he also managed to get us interested and make us care about Hee-jin and Hyun-shik and the development of their complex relationship.Overall,this is one film that would definitely not into everyone's liking but nevertheless,it also would once more prove that movies can be used to examine even the most awkward of themes which is that of the primal behavior of human beings and as well as the fact that Koreans are once more one of the most creative when it comes to making movies. "},{"Title":"Capturing, horrifying, great visual narrative","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Seom (The Isle) was the first movie I saw by the South Corean director Ki-Duk Kim and I liked it. It's about a strange lonely woman who rents floating fish huts for people to sleep in. In addition to food and coffee she also provides sexual services for the men.The story gets going when a retired policeman, who has murdered his girlfriend arrives to the place of floating huts. A strange romantic relationship build between these two loners and sex becomes a drug for them - a medicine to mental and physical injuries.An important theme of the movie is fishing, in my opinion Ki-Duk compares fishing to relationships; you need bait to lure the catch, just as one example. The movie analyzes love and relationships do they always end up to a disaster or can they save a human's life. I'm sure I will come back to this film, because of its several layers.There's not much of a dialog in this film, which to my mind is good. Because it's the reason why this movie is so capturing and it shows the visual skills of Ki-Duk Kim. Of course there is also always a reason to choose the quiet way, for the Belgian Dardenne brothers it is film-philosophy for Ki-Duk it is probably the style of narrative, but also the thing what silence does to the observation of the viewer.The thing that bothers me with this film is the abuse of animals. I don't know whether the scenes were real or faked, but anyways they were pretty nasty. I can watch almost anything (Le Sang Des Betes), but it just doesn't feel right. Even that the scenes were important for the film - Ki-Duk's symbolicism.So get ready for something a little different, something disturbing and yet so interesting. I wouldn't recommend this to the most sensitive viewers because it has a lot of brutal and violent scenes. Set your mind ready for some symbolism and good extraordinary narrative. "},{"Title":"Ouch!!","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this one is guaranteed to cause nightmares for the art-house crowd looking for some artistic, PC, multicultural cinema to make them feel aware and superior. The Isle is basically a love story between two people who have given up all hope. The two main characters express their feelings only through shocking mental and physical abuse (often directed at themselves).This film progresses in a slow, matter-of-fact manner. The beauty of the lakeside surroundings, rendered by the excellent cinematography, creates a powerful contrast with the sordid relationship between the protagonists.This movie definitely will sink its hooks under your skin. Watch it and see what I mean.  "},{"Title":"Hooked","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fishermen live in small cottages at the lake and a mute girl sells equipment in a kiosk at  the shore, she is having the hots for one of the guys and is getting quite a bit jealous when  other ladies sees him. They both get hooked, in more than one way and when the hooks  must be pulled out again - OUCH! Then they are moving into Takashi Miike territory. And  then there is the odd murder going on. This is a gorgeous looking movie moving at a pretty  slow pace. This is not everyones cup of tea, but sit back and enjoy the great pictures,  gorehounds will be bored and the squeemish should stay clear of this one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD !!!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a surprisingly good south korean movie. Great starting idea, great director, good cast and sometimes very nice and poetic photos. There are some really unreal scenes or wild symbols (hooks in mouth and vagina) about a sexual passion and one's delirious motivations and acts. I think too that this is a warm and wonderful film, much because of that it is open for many interpretations (femininity, death, isolation, incommunication...) and not only for a sexual basic interpretation. Vote 7.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful surprise!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like The Isle, but given its lurid reputation, I didn't expect such a happy surprise. This Korean film inhabits a theatrical world not unlike Beckett's. Characters occupy fishing floats on an neglected back-water, with only a token interest in fishing. It is such a rich cinematic metaphor that you can't believe the director will be able to sustain it. He does, imperfectly, but better than any recent writer-director I can think of.It is essentially a two character film, male and female; one is mute, one is not; both indulge in self mutilation; one is wracked by remorse, one is remorseless. This duality is not only, or simply, about male and female, but about the unification of North and South Korea (what else could the twice filleted, twice caught fish mean?). The film is not about the politics of unification, but about the visceral longing for completion, forgiveness, healing, and the conflict and remorse these feelings spawn.This is ambitious stuff, and Ki-Duk Kim gives this small Beckett-like film a truly Shakespearian grandeur. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie. I enjoyed it in particular due to limited amount of dialogue. The movie carries you on without much talk. It is full of twist and turns. You can't wait to see what happens next on each plot. You feel connected to the main characters and don't want them caught. Beautiful scenery and great choice of colors. I will watch it again and recommend it to others. "}{"Title":"Beautifully crafted!  An Art Film worthy of that Title.","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WOW!First some quick scarecrow man facts.  Yes that is right, FACTS not OPINIONS!  I know I am an arrogant prick, forgive me.1. Action films do not have enough realistic dialogue which is why they usually eat dung.2. Art films can over do it with realistic dialogue, and sometimes get too intelligent to be realistic at all.  (If you have 5 characters in a film, one of them has to be immune to correct grammar and smart phrasing.  It is just how it is.)  Anyway that is why art films usually eat dung.3. Silent films, well in this day and age are pointless. So what is the solution?This film, The Isle!It is not filled with overly articulate dialogue.  It is not filled with much dialogue at all.  Oh, and this is not an action film, I just like bad mouthing the action genre.  It is not a silent film.  It is, however silent when necessary.  It paints a picture like Norman Rockwell and Norman Bates would paint together.  The Isle is wonderfully edited.  The best silent performance I have *ever* seen is played by Suh Jung, who is also very easy on the eyes.  I have always said, if you can pull off a silent roll, you are above all other actors and actresses.  One example, Tom Hanks in most of Cast Away.    American art film makers should study this film until they can visualize it in their sleep.  America will not make an art film this good, ever.  That is right! I said not ever!Also  Props are in order on the small role played by Hang-Seon Jang, who also played my favorite Korean detective, Detective Oh in Tell Me Something.  "},{"Title":"I have seen this movie...","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There isn't much I feel I can say about this movie. It is beautiful, yet boring; metaphoric, yet obvious; brutal, yet gentle. It combines many of the classic story lines in a weird and outworldy way.Basically, it is a movie about love, but the people involved are introverted tortured individuals. I believe that the title points to the way each character in the movie is an island of its own, a metaphor that is laid out in the physical world as rental floating cabins on a lake, and the girl that services this world is some sort of very dark mermaid.However, I feel that it goes too arty for my tastes. Between the occasional feelings of nausea, horror, pity and anxiety, there are long periods of boredom. I can hardly identify with most of the characters, as they belong to an underground world that I am not part of.Bottom line a movie for Asian fans, for Kim Ki Duk fans, for movie art fans. "},{"Title":"Beautiful directed, but unsettling movie that edges towards revulsion too often...","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After having seen Bad guy (by the same director) I obtained this movie expecting different and better, and what I seemed to find was rather a toned down version of that film. The premise of the movie is one set on a lake where a woman rents out floating chalets to men for fishing which really double up as brothels for a fun weekend away for the clients. The landlady of this business never says a word in the entire movie, but rather uses her emotions to convey what she feels, and into her world steps a suicidal cop whom she begins to fall in love with.The story unfolds as the landlady and the cop begin to cover up for each other, whilst the landlady, being repressed emotional, begins to open up but in a dark manner. Jealousy, hurt and fear lead to grave consequences, and the pair have to further sink into the mire to survive, but not before finding that they both need each other just as much to keep going.A difficult movie, which seems to treat women too much as sex objects alone, whilst some of the sex scenes can be a little too graphic. Additionally, the short bursts of violence are unnecessary and take away from the movie, whilst the rape scene will pander too much to those we shouldn't be encouraging. On the other hand, the main two leads are absolutely great in their respective roles and carry their roles incredibly well whilst the film is simply eye-candy in its settings and looks, which are the two saving graces.....Overall, a mixed movie... Wouldn't strongly recommend at all, even if you are a big big fan of Asian cinema like myself.... "},{"Title":"Deliciously poetically loaded and dramatically charged.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gorgeous and traumatizing. I'll never look at fish hooks quite the same way again. A beautifully nasty story of a mute woman who runs a house boat motel of some ill repute.  Great location, often breath taking poetic visuals and ambiance, and wonderful storytelling with extremely little dialogue. Incredible moments of exchange between the key characters, often wordlessly, and always impeccably rendered, simply luscious beats Hollywood cinema seldom has patience to allow for. Caution though, beautiful as this film is, and it is, this film also has some of perhaps the most jarring if not simply downright disturbing moments of cruelty and mutilation in ways I have never seen before, and that, my friends, is saying something, especially of much merit when this film never becomes exploitative, cheesy or anything less than deliciously poetically loaded and dramatically charged. "},{"Title":"For Asian film fans only.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Isle, a hauntingly beautiful film out of Korea, tells of a mysterious young woman who operates a flotilla of fishing huts on a lake from her rustic cabin providing transportation, delivery services, maintenance, and even sex for the men who rent the huts for R&R. As the story unfolds, so does a peculiar attraction between the non-speaking woman (Jung) and a suicidal patron (Kim) who watch each other from across the misty waters. The Isle delves in the yin-yang Asian aesthetic in which pain and pleasure yield the most satisfying life experience and, though much has been written about that controversial and grotesque aspect, it seems quite fitting in the context of the film and there is surprisingly little sex, nudity, or sensationalism. A minimalist film with almost no script, The Isle is an exotic art house experience which will play best with serious foreign film fans. All others should stay away. (B+) "},{"Title":"a masterpiece that will not let you untouched","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Seom is definitely not a film for everybody but surely is a film that will not leave anyone untouched. It's calm and cruel at the same time. The movie is mostly known for its disturbing scenes you can see, among the others, fishing hooks stuck into a man's throat or in a woman's vagina, or a fish partially eaten alive, but you can also admire some of the most poetic images ever filmed. The film is photographed in a beautiful way (Kim Ki-duk was a painter before being a director), some shots of the lake are stunning and anticipate the ones of Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring. The plot is about an apparently mute girl who works in a fishing resorts, she rents floating houses to fishermen, sell food and provides prostitutes for them, occasionally she sells her body too. A man arrives at the resort, he is a fugitive running from police. A strange bond starts between the man and the girl. After some suicide attempts and some murders the couple will leave the resort on a floating cabin. The narration is slow, but are the images and symbolism to be eloquent The film is superbly acted, especially by Jung Suh who carries on his role credibly without speaking a word. Seom is the movie that made me know Kim Ki-duk and I consider it a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Weird, Beautiful and Engaging","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is meant only for adults and even then not for an average viewer. It has some graphic sex scenes, an almost rape, some animal torture with a little bit of self mutilation thrown in. As I said earlier, definitely not for an average viewer. The story itself is very weird and not everything makes sense. So if you like yours movies to make perfect sense this is probably not the movie for you. All that being said, The Isle has its positive points. The cinematography is beautiful in some parts. And the weird story just keeps you hooked as you don't have any idea what is going to happen next.I would recommend it if you watch a lot of foreign movies as it is quiet an experience and it remains with you for some time which is more than what could be said of a lot of other movies. "},{"Title":"Thrilling experience","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I finally gathered myself together and built up strong enough stomach to finish the Korean film The Isle. It's one of the most gruesome good looking films I have seen. Yes, the film was beautifully made, I wonder if it was made on the same lake which the splendid Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring was shot, both movies are directed by Kim Ki-duk. Let me tell you, Kim has a twisted mind and incredible talent like many great artists. He can shoot a scene and put the camera at your least expected position and you will remember or get disturbed for a long long time.Unlike the divine Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring, The Isle is like a dark poetry, exploring the sadomasochism subplot, with style and beauty. Watching this film is a great cinema experience, with the thrill of seeing nothing like that before. I have recommended to people the Japanese thriller Audition, now it gets a competition The Isle. The film is about an ex-cop escapes to this isolated lake from the law (sounds familiar? see Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring) and meets this mute woman (people debate if she can speak or just choose not to during the entire film), who provides supplies and prostitution to fish men floating on different boats in the lake. Then twists and turns happen one after another. If you have the strong nerve to finish the film, you will know all the details.While watching this film, I couldn't help but put on my hands over my eyes a few times, gasping and moaning, and then peeked out between my fingers to find out what's happening on the screen, like when I saw Audition, The Piano Teacher, and Salo, or The 120 Days of Sodom. Tonight, I will go to sleep with my lights on. "},{"Title":"Jawdroppingly Beautiful Film","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an astonishing beautifully photographed film with exceptional performances from the two leads. It is to all intents a silent film, with only the briefest dialogue passages when characters arrive from outside the lagoon which is the sole location for the film's action. Despite the the use of a single location, the extraordinary photography captures the ever-changing moods through light, dark, colour and composition, so that the single location is never the same in successive scenes. The central performance is that of Jung Suh as a fishing resort caretaker and part-time prostitute, she conveys innocence and passivity before transforming seamlessly into an amoral killer. Her lack of dialogue (she never speaks), serves only to exaggerate the growing sense on menace. She falls for an ex-cop whose first reaction is to attempt to rape her. Despite this, she persists in pursuing him and they move headlong towards their mutual destruction. It should come as no surprise that such an outstanding film should have come out of Korea as that country has a burgeoning reputation for high-quality cinema. This is the best Korean film I have yet seen, and should be seen by anyone who loves cinema.  "},{"Title":"Not your average sexual perversion horror movie","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A memorable setting &#150; a lake with several tiny floating homes. The fishermen (and visitors) also use the floats for liaisons with prostitutes &#150; whether the local girl who ferries people across and brings coffee-to-go with her boat, or the more modern whores ordered in from town. Out local girl forms a bit of an obsession with one of the local weirdos, and he with her. After rescuing each other in various ways, our attention is turned towards gruesome things you can do with fish hooks inserted into orifices. The Isle teeters between serious cinema &#150; much of it stunningly shot with an impressive minimalism&#150; and voyeuristic sensationalism. As the plot ultimately fails to hang together, sensationalism maybe tips the scales. What is doubly amusing is how the filmmakers (or their Korean censors) seem happy to show us the most blood curdling sexual perversion, yet shy away from any on-screen genitalia, even when it is quite intrinsic to what is going on (I'll leave the gory details to your imagination).  "}{"Title":"The Great one..","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very impressive, full of emotions and beauty.. While rude and very violent, still very magical and nice.. I hope that everyone will enjoy this movie as much as I did, because it truly is a remarkable piece.. "},{"Title":"Hiding and finding","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I do not know how I stumbled upon this film by writer/director Ki-duk Kim, but I am sure glad that I did. The cinematography was absolutely incredible as the story takes place on a lake, where cabins are rented for fishermen.Jung Suh plays the woman who travels from fishing cabin to fishing cabin selling coffee, bait, and sometimes more. She never says one word the entire film.She forms an attraction for a man (Yoosuk Kim) who is troubled to the point that he is contemplating suicide.The film is sometimes very grotesque, or brutal, and sometimes very funny, as a man interrupts sex to land a fish and then goes back to finishing his sexual act.A strange ending and we really never know the whole stories, but it was fascinating to watch. "},{"Title":"Graphic + Sexual + Intriguing = Grexuing","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not sure how to begin this, but I'll start off simply by saying, I liked it. After the movie finished I was happy with what I saw. And now a day later, I'm even more satisfied and actually anticipating my next viewing of it. I barely ever repeat movies so soon, but with this film, I feel I need to.The story is about a young woman who seems to be an owner/caretaker of a lake resort rental service. She takes her paying customers out to little floating shacks on the lake (a great idea which delivers a fantastic unique setting), where she caters to their needs. Well, one day a suicidal young man comes to the lake and rents out a shack. Well the two young adults almost immediately sense something special in one another. The story revolves around these two and their evolving relationship. The movie also intertwines other small side-plots with other shack inhabitants, and even pimps. The movie is a slow-moving film, but it delivers on many entertaining levels. Though, I can easily understand some people not liking this movie in the slightest bit. But for people who do enjoy a bizarre tale, this will be right up your alley.The Isle aka Seom is my second venture into Ki-Duk Kim's work, and again, I came out satisfied. Bad Guy the other, is also recommendable, but this speaks to me much more, from the awesome setting, the great cinematography, to the intriguing story. Also the acting from all actors was very well-done. And I have to mention that the ending is something of a head-scratcher. You can look at it from many different angles, and I love that. The Isle was a very pleasant surprise for myself and I'll be sure to rec it to as many open-minded movie lovers as I can. A solid 8 outta 10. "},{"Title":"A meandering movie full of symbolism.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I confess I was expecting a lot more from this movie, but overall, you cannot deny that it's a very good work. The pace of the film adjusts precisely to the surrounding, and the actors performances fit smoothly. The main virtue of 'The Island' is its global feel nothing stands against anything. You just like the concept or not.And what about the concept? Well, if you like metaphoric storytelling you've got plenty here. Every five minutes there's an allegory. Fortunately, they don't get in the way of the story. Not until the very end, which is one of the reasons I'm subtracting points from the movie score. Another one is the blatant underdevelopment of the first stage of the two main characters' relationship. It hadn't even started when it was already ending. It takes away so much power from the film... To end with the shortcomings, I felt the movie wandered quite frequently, not knowing which happenings to focus on. During those moments, the director drops on us a little more... you guess it... symbolism.Nonetheless, the fancy visuals, the good photography and the powerful images are truly remarkable, conforming the main reason for watching this film the lovely mini-world in which the story takes place and the way it is shown, resorting to violence if necessary. The hook scenes would be out of place in any other movie, but they fit here. Are they gruesome? Not as half as people might have told you. It's nothing you have to turn away your head from the screen.To me, it looks solid, but I have the feeling it could have been much more too.RATING 6.8 "},{"Title":"The notion of side effects","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie can be recommended to see only for the beauty of almost every frame. The changes of camera perspectives are natural enough to appear not noticeable. An interesting detail is, that the characters almost never talk. One can obviously watch the movie in Koren and gain more of catching up with voices intonations, that are not blended by a translator, then actually miss in the meanings of a few words said.The guys realize that they like each other, but the total absence of mutual understanding, and of any attempts to improve this, make a significant problem. The problem happens to be not quite resolvable, what does not quite matters. An excellently fit move is the ending that does not give an exact answer to what happened?.Therefore, an Art without a message implied is what is usually called a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"What about humor in this film?","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all. I don't care enough about all the animal violence portrait in this film to let it change my opinion. So i'll drop that. Animal cruelty is in fact used as a mirrors for showing the suffering of the several characters. It' still not OK, though.Also the physical violence is not so shocking, considering that there are worse (asian and not) films around. The violence in this film is shocking though, because the carnal gore is combined with the much deeper psychic violence the characters inflict each other. Also the massive amount of slapstick make actions even more cruel. I laughed quite a lot during the movie, and by doing so i realized that the scenes sometimes were just not acted as if they were intended to be funny. Laughing for me in that precise moment was often more a relief than a expected reaction. Maybe the director used this to mask or soften an unbearable violence, maybe even to make the viewer feel guilty by confusing the borders between comedy and drama. I think comedy is partly used to make pure dramatic moments even more intense and sometimes to make the viewer doubt if it was intended sarcastically in the first place.Sometimes though funny moments were so plain, that i had serious doubts if i schould take the film seriously in the first place. SPOILER 2 hooks taken out of the keepers vagina form a hearth END OF SPOILERAnyways in my opinion a very intense, pessimistic movie. Which can shock with its exaggerated violent scenes, and which sometimes cross the border to grotesque. Surely it will make you doubt and think. "}]