[{"Title":"Exactly what I expected...","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me preface by saying I am a fan of Rob Schneider, and of Adam Sandler.  I enjoyed Deuce Bigalow, and all (except for Big Daddy) of Adam Sandler's movies.  So I basically was expecting some (Ok, a lot) of low-brow humor, a decent plot to keep rolling through, and to laugh throughout the movie.  This movie provided just that.  It wasn't the greatest comedy in the world, or a landmark motion picture, and it wasn't made to be that.  Colleen Haskell's skills at acting reminded me of when they put a famous non-actor on Saturday Night Live, and don't give them too much to do in the skits.  She's only in the movie probably a total of 15 minutes, but does what they ask of her, and does a decent job of it.  The movie is a hoot, and doesn't actually stoop to every joke being a f**t joke.  I laughed about every 3-4 minutes, and enjoyed the ending as well.  If you're expecting something similar to Deuce Bigalow, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I Have To Admit This Is Pretty Funny","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was just plain funny and very entertaining throughout the goofy 83 minutes. Crude? Yes, at times, but what modern-day comedy isn't lately? The PG-13 rating is a joke. With all the sexual stuff in here, R is more appropriate.Some of that sleazy stuff, to be honest, was pretty funny, though and there isn't much profanity. Rob Schneider, as Marvin, lays his goofy Deuce Bigelow-type character on us, trying to get the pretty girl Rianna (Colleen Haskell). I really thought this would be a stupid film but Schneider's animal imitations are hilarious and, overall, this a very fast-moving, silly-but-lots of laughs film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Marvin is a wimpy guy, who's determined to follow in his fathers footsteps by becoming a cop. Things aren't going well, until Marvins in a car accident and when a very strange scientist finds him, he uses animal body parts to rebuild Marvin. With all the animal parts in his body Marvin gets very energized and leaves all his weakness behind, which them leads him to become a cop and a famous one at that. Something he's of course always wanted. Life is going great for Marvin until his the animals in his body start taking over his body and makes him do the strangest things like falling in love with animals and eating from bins. With all this going on, Marvin has to remain the perfect gentleman to his new love, Rianna, which leads to a strange and quite predictable twist at the end. The Animal is produced by the brilliant Adam Sandler, who also has a really funny cameo as a Townie in this movie, which stars Rob Schneider, who also wrote the screenplay here. Rob really funny. Schneiders love interest is Colleen Haskell, from the US reality TV show, Survivor.After the awful Freddy Got Fingered, I wasn't to sure what I would make out of The Animal, but it was good. Not the most brilliant movie around, but good. Rob Schneider is great in his role here too. There are some funny bits in the movie too. All in all, enjoyable stuff. "},{"Title":"Not bad. actually funny","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie, even though I feel the trailer made it seem more funny than it actually is.  Still, its enjoyable, and has the type of unbelievable humor that I like, that goofy off-the-wall ingredient that really good comedies have.  Worth a watch or two. "},{"Title":"Not a Complete Dog","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well Rob Schneider has done it again! Much like his previous movie Deuce Bigalow Male Gigalow, The Animal has little artistic merit. It bears little or no relation to anything resembling reality. It is often stupid, and the dialogue is painful at times. And not only that, The Animal is also fairly funny. Unlike Tom Green and David Spade, Schneider has an easygoing likeable quality that translates well onto the big screen. This masks many of the deficiencies in the script, and makes us appreciate the good parts even more. Unfortunately the same can't be said for co-star Colleen Haskell. Colleen, the tribe has spoken; you are not a good actor! As far as I can tell, Haskell has only three different facial expressions. None of which are appealing. The person who hired her needs to extinguish her torch, and ask her to leave the acting business immediately. So what kind of grade do we give The Animal? The movie isn't a complete dog, and it does have a certain amount of animal magnetism. 3 stars and a leg of lamb out of 5.   "},{"Title":"He wasn't much of man... And now he is not much not an animal","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After receiving organ transplants from various animal donors, a man finds himself taking on the traits of those animals.To start, I am a pretty big fan of Rob Schneider and his competitor Adam Sandler. They both provide that entertainment that sometimes we need to take a break from all the seriousness in this world. In the Animal, frankly I wasn't expecting the best movie ever. Nor was I expecting an Oscar. I expected a film with great laughs and a nice movie to chill back to and enjoy the little things. And yet again, I got what I had came in for. Of course, the movie doesn't provide an intelligent plot nor does it provide great characters, a great plot, or great cinematography. But once again, people still complain that DID expect this. The movie does provide great laughs though, indeed. And that's EXACTLY why the movie came out. To provide some uplifting in life. No, it is not the best movie ever. Nor is it a great movie. But if you outlook the problems and in look the good things about the film; your good to go! So that's about a wrap up. Expecting the greatest movie of all time? No way, get out! Expecting a nice, fun movie? Here you are. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, SNL Castmember Makes a Good Movie, First in a While","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will be honest with you, I went to see The Animal for Norm Macdonald. But what I saw was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  Not only is Colleen Haskell a pretty good actress, but Rob Schneider was even funnier than in Deuce!!! And Did I mention Norm's line I'm not gonna be in a mob to kill a black dude Funny!!! "},{"Title":"A delectable tale of man's nature and Badgermilk","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was kept on the edge of my seat during this Herculean cinematic experience -- the question of one's very identify with one's self is set against a backdrop of hilarity and monkeys in skirts. The question of police brutality in our society is dealt with on a Ciceronian level as older policemen are cast as blood mongrels and middle aged police officers are cast as muscle headed steroid-freaks -- a casting delight surprise from Office Space is in store for educated viewers.A dramatic tale from start to end, even the farm animals are in the winner's circle when the time come to roll the credits. Happy Madison productions has done it again. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is pretty funny. The gags are spread throughout the movie, so you'll be laughing the whole time you're watching. I know I couldn't stop laughing. This is a great movie that deserves to be seen by anyone who loves comedies. The ending was predictable but it was still a good ending. It's just as good as the other happy madison movies (Little Nicky,Joe Dirt, Deuce Bigalow)and if you like those movies, you'll like this as well. Overall,it's better than joe dirt, but not as good as little nicky or deuce bigalow. "},{"Title":"I laughed till I cried!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great movie! Rob is  one of my favorites anyway so I went in expecting to like it and I came out loving it. Top notch comedy! I was really impressed with Coleen Haskell.  Rob was just too good though. I love Duece Bigalow and I liked this one even more....I took my Mom and she is now a big Rob Schneider fan. If you need a good laugh go see this! "}{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike some other reviewers here, I'm not really fond of movies like 'The English Patient' nor 'Titanic' or stuff like that.I do like mindless entertainment, and like usual Schneider succeeds 100% in doing that. This is really good stuff if you just want to sit back, relax and laugh alot. Nothing more, nothing less.Rob Schneider is in fact a really cool funny guy, he proved that with Deuce Bigalow, SNL and Men Behaving Badly.Some girls might not like his humor, but that's up to them.If you're cool, you love this movie, just like other Sandler/Schneider stuff.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a flood of really gross gross-out comedies, it's refreshing to see a comedy that's not gross at all, and actually genuinely FUNNY.  Just like Deuce Bigalow before it, The Animal is a well-made, well-acted, and very funny film. Best part is it doesn't feel like someone took the teeth out of it just to make it a PG-13, unlike two other movies recently released by two of Schneider's former SNL castmates.  "},{"Title":"The best feature length, live action, slapstick, animal based comedy of the year","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think you have missed the point of 'The Animal' completely. It is truly brilliant.First off there is Schneider himself, with the acrobatic dexterous slapstick genius that is only equalled by Keaton and Chaplin while his characterisation of a failing, loser, police office evidence clerk is the equal to any performance put in by Brando, Olivia, Hopkins or Curry.The production values, while not overly high, portray an attention to detail unrivalled by any feature length, live action, slapstick, animal based comedy that came out that year. Whilst the script is as cutting and contemporary as anything produced by a Hollywood studio, the directing demonstrates a brilliance that a comedy (even of this calibre) rarely get the luxury of having.The over loud animal noises, the nob gags, the bum gags, the brilliant juxtaposing of 'funny' animal related physical jokes and human social events that on the face of it a 7 year old could have wrote but in reality could only have been penned by a genius.The plot is brilliant, inspired and in places truly emotional. (I don't want to spoil this truly great movie so don't read on if you haven't seen it).Mourning the loss of his father, Marvin has to come to terms with his inability to find a companion and his spiralling out of control lack of self confidence. Ostracised by his work colleagues, ritually abused by his neighbour (and her viscous dog) and devoid of any and all satisfaction personally and professionally. Its to this backdrop that Marvin suffers a hideous debilitating car accident but is miraculously saved by having his DNA spliced with an unknown amount of domesticated animal DNA and having some body part replacement.The movie covers politically hot topics such as whether using animal DNA in humans is acceptable, the ethics of breeding animals for body parts, the threat of hunting on animal populations and the cost of animal conservation, that cannibalism is acceptable and that bestiality is&#133;OK. This is not to mention the exploration between god, man and animal and the questions regarding animal consciousness.This is apart form the everyday elements of work place rivalry, racism, fat-ism, sexism, gun control, murder, meat eating and monkey jokes.On a personal level, I have watched this movie 1000 times and have yet to not find it funny, I literally end up doubled up in pain, crying.....with laughter its just that good. I challenge anyone to get through this movie and not laugh at one joke, its not possible. Brilliant brilliant brilliant.The bit where the scientist suggest Marvin get rid of his latent aggression fuelled by his sexual urge by sleeping with a chimpanzee in a pink tutu is possibly the funniest thing I have ever seen in my life...my life!! If you don't laugh at this movie your just dead inside.Mr Schneider we salute you another fantastic movie, lets hope he ignores the billions of ignorant critics, the unjust reviews and the failing box office returns and goes on to make the animal 2 and 3. Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Dr. Moreau Meets Police Academy","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plays better on cable with 4 minutes missing. A funny premise that borders on the obscene, as Rob Schneider's animal instincts take over after a zany mad scientist puts him back together with animal parts and glands after a near-fatal car crash. Originally meant as an Adam Sandler vehicle, Rob does a masterful comical performance in a really silly movie actually funnier than Ace Ventura Pet Detective. Because of his special abilities, The Animal can smell heroin being smuggled in an airplane passenger's body and saves the mayor's child from drowning. He is hopelessly harassed by his boss as he tries to survive probation on the police force. Right up there as a farce reminiscent of The Man with Two Brains. Like Blazing Saddles it even has several uncomfortable black prejudice comments by the only black man in the film. Look for Ed Asner as an old policeman in a very insignificant role. Collen Haskell is really cute as the love interest who ends up being part Animal herself. (We have the same doctor.) Rob tries to hump everything in sight, gorges on cattle and wakes up in a butcher shop window, stuffed with salami and ham. It even makes fun of the Frankenstein movie's torch-lit mob scenes. A short funny movie, very well done, but with low-class humor, to be sure. Not for young children, although much more is suggested than actually shown. "},{"Title":"Pure Awesomeness","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rob Schneider cracks me up. This movie is absolutely one hour and 20 minutes of pure awesomeness. Not making the movie long is great. The guy from office space is so funny. Everything about the animals is hilarious too. This movie is one of my top 5 comedies. I love any body from SNL. This is just another classic. Rob Schneider is absolutely one of the best comedians out there. "},{"Title":"Way better than I expected","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When my family rented this movie, I was just expecting a stupid movie with a stupid plot and stupid jokes. Well, let me tell you, some jokes are unpredictable, and will cause you to laugh very loudly. Of course, there many other jokes that aer too silly (and sometimes very disgusting), but overall, this movie is a good and highly entertaining one. I really recommend it to you. Sure it´s silly, but aren´t comedy movies supposed to be silly after all? "},{"Title":"Great comedy flick.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lol funny funny movie. It took me a little while to get into it, but it had a solid middle and end. Norm McDonald was wonderful. I recommend it to any adam sandler fans. "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked deuce bigalow you'll love the Animal. Rob Schneider is at his best. The plot was not realistic but come on do you really need a plot with sandler producing the movie. A definite must see for the people that love the humor of Saturday Night Live. "},{"Title":"Unleashing the animal in all of us.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a big fan of Rob Schneider had me wanting to go to this movie from the time I first heard about it.  I really don't know what to expect when the movie is produced through Adam Sandler. Sometime it's a hit , sometimes a miss.  This movie falls somewhere in the middle.  We follow Marvin as he tries to get his big break and become a policeman.  Standing in his way are other cops, and also his lack of physical prowess.  That is until he has a horrendous accident, and is repaired by a mad scientist played by Michael Caton.  He suddenly has the abilities of different kinds of animals, and also there instincts.  That's the funny part about this movie as he tries to control these conflicting feelings going through his head.  Colleen Haskell plays his love interest in the movie, and she comes off as the sweet, innocent she is supposed to be.  Her main goal in life seems to be to save as many animals as possible.  This is one more in a fine line of comedic performances for Rob Schneider who seems to have found his niche playing the underdog role.     "},{"Title":"bad? yes. but its still pretty funny","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Animal (2001)5 word summary Loser cop gets animal powerNow I don't wanna sit here and lie and say this is a good movie, because its not, and it deserves the low ratings that it has. However, it does have some cheap fun laughs such as the reverse racism, and sniffing peoples butts, and John C McGinley. And if you're young like I was when I first saw it, or drunk you probably will find some humor in it. If you are looking for a good movie look elsewhere. If you like Rob Schneider films such as Deuce Bigalow, The Hot Chick, Benchwarmers, then most likely you will enjoy this film, if you hated those films you will definitely hate this one because it is probably the worst out of those four. So again it does have some good, cheap jokes and is humorous at times as long as you can look past the bad acting. Have a few beers and perhaps you will enjoy it. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Looks like I'll have to defend this one","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No, it's not well-made, as such.  And perhaps its greatest virtue is purely negative contrary to what you would conclude from the fact that it was released in 2001 and concerns a man who has been given powerful animal instincts, it DOESN'T rely - not even once, so far as I can recall - on gross-out tactics.  (The closest we come is when Marvin takes out a package of raw mincemeat and eats it when he thinks nobody's looking.  Really, that's the closest we come.)  It's NOT nasty, it's NOT unpleasant.  And to move on to positive virtues it's actually funny.  Yes, I was as surprised as anyone else.The writers are often content to stand back and let the premise do the work, but at least the premise and the fairly obvious situations that follow from it are inherently amusing.  A man humping a goat isn't funny; a man fighting his urge to hump a goat because he knows it will be frowned upon, is ... actually, this particular part of the movie isn't THAT funny, but other parts are, and it's because the principle is the same throughout.  When the animal humour wears thin there's often a good unrelated gag to supplement it.  That's good badger milk, says Marvin, as though badger milk were like wine and he wasn't certain what kind he was going to get.  Don't be ashamed, son, says the police chief.  I'VE eaten out of the garbage, too...  (Not THE greatest line, I'll admit, but Ed Asner gets points for delivering it in an inspired way.)  And there's the guy who asks a series of questions that reveal the shy delight and eagerness he feels to be part of a mob.I didn't know, before reading other people's comments, that Colleen Haskell was a star of one of those schlocky reality TV shows and that this was her first acting role; people who DID know this, it seemed, noticed all manner of deficiencies in her performance that simply weren't there.  Haskell plays the cute chick who ends up falling for the hero.  The ROLE is limited.  I honestly don't see how Haskell could have played it any better than she did.  (In fact, more experienced actresses usually get it wrong, and Haskell doesn't.)  And at least she, unlike most actresses called upon to play this kind of role, really is gorgeous. "},{"Title":"Rob Schneider Future Superstar !","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, I liked Deuce Bigalow a lot. This movie is not quite that good, but it starts to showcase Rob Schneider as truly one of America's best hopes for comedy superstardom (like Jim Carrey and Eddie Murphy before him).  His timing is perfect and the film's direction is as good as it could be.  Don't get me wrong, its a stupid movie and the plot is really terrible. However, it has enough well-directed funny interludes to keep you going.  But just to watch Rob's screen presence is amazing. See it many times and I'm sure you will agree, Rob is the next big thing in Hollywood comedic film.  Who knows?, after another 8 or so of these, he will move into dramatic acting.  As this film has made back its money big-time at the box office, we can be sure to see many more of these. Keep it up Rob !  Great job!My favorite scene ?  Got to be his cat imitation near the fish tank. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.  Take it for what it is...lowbrow humor. We aren't talking a Merchant Ivory production here.  To get an idea of what we're talking about the funniest part was the purple nurple that Schneider gives the orangutan.  Survivor's Colleen holds her own here as far as acting goes. And she's so cute Meg Ryan had better watch out because Colleen can outscrunch circles around her!!  Overall, I'd give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rob Schneider is a famous comedian cause of his movements, facials and performances of not humans. This time he is The Animal. Marvin is a loser who is trying to be a hero and one day, nobody takes a call from a man that gets attacked, so Marvin has to take this case and save the attacked man. But on his way to the crime scene, he crashes with his car and gets really damaged. He doesn't remember what happens and at the next ordinary day, his life is not same when he finds out that he has animal instincts. Of course, we got our female that our main character is trying to reach but his tryings, are useless. She is played by Collen Haskell. There are no negative characters. The negative character, is destiny if I could use this metaphor. Marvin should find out, how to become a normal human being again. By the way-his animal instincts, helps him in some situations. Schneider's performance is a so-so. The movie is so unreal that gets stupid at some moments but it is one of those movies, called mindless fun as I have written above. So watch it for the monkey style Rob Schneider but it is definitely not one of the best comedies ever or one of the best movies that Schneider appears in. He is a great comedian but this is not his best movie. "},{"Title":"Happy Madison productions brings you another hysterical movie!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Happy Madison productions brings you another hysterical movie! Granted, anybody who has ever known or been around animals will laughter a little harder, but still this is the funniest movies in quite a while.Rob Schneider was the perfect man to pull this puppy off. He's, um, er, petite and we bought the loser turned animal bit- a little too easily perhaps. The story was surprisingly unique and fast paced.You'll want to avoid and kind of intaking of a beverage natural while viewing this movie, because dollars to donuts it'll come blasting out of your nostrils onto the guy in front of ya-- trust me.Story goes... Marvin Mange (Rob -If he were only a smidge taller- Schneider) is a wimpy asthmatic loser with exponents the size of Benicio del Toro's thighs. He's desperate to get on the police force, but as he's failed the obstacle course four times there's a better chance of Rosie O'Donnell being straight...He's left alone one day while the rest of the boys form the precinct are out playing some ball. He gets a 211 (armed robbery) call and has to go it alone. Enroute he is derailed by a circus seal mysteriously blocking the road. He flies over the cliff, in one of the funniest car-over-the-cliff- scenes I've ever seen, and is left a broken man- literally.A strange ranger sort saves him by rebuilding him a' la the six million dollar man meets Dr. Doolitle. So Marvin's more of a Frankenweenie human with a keen sense of smell that's perpetually in a state of heat. See, Marvin gets his new chance at life after miscellaneous animal parts are transplanetd through a proceure known as Radical Transpeciesoctomy or some such nonsense. And after a whole week's recovery (go with it) he's back in the world of Human Erectus'.Problem is his new animal parts he inherited are taking' over the his normally dormant animal instincts. The hilarity begins.He meets a pretty gal and animal activist, Riana (Colleen Haskell-yes, that girl from Survivor- who happens to have a degree in theater. Hmm. Nah, that show was real. It wasn't a fix. The cast was really just everyday actors-er-models-er-folks like us). Will the love bug bite or Marvin?Then just as poor Marvin finds happiness, some manbeast is ripping apart cows at night. The village people want blood, Marvin's blood. That and to carry their lit torches in an angry mob!What's to become of the elfin Marvin? Will he be hunted down like wild boar, and his bulbous head mounted on the mayor's wall? Or will he settle down with a nice Billy goat from the right side of the tracks and start a small herd of his own?You'll have to just go and see, because this one is highly recommended.There are a couple of other cast members that need mention. Norm McDonald, who I'd jump on like a rabid rhesus monkey given the chance, plays a callous mob member riddled with confusion at how the whole darn mob mentally flows. Of course Adam Sandler makes an appearance- ever so briefly- to cheering audience members. That was weird. And Marvin's nemesis the sargeant at his police department, played by John C McGinley, is as obnoxious as any drunken bleacher quarterback in the cheap seats at the superbowl. Brilliantly funny!Hmm, I use to dislike Sandler so very much. Now there's this new funny trend he's jumped on. I may have to rethink this year's ASSCUKA (American Sandler Sucks-Cocky-Unfunny Kreep- Association) membership dues...Cause the boy can pick them. Funny movies to produce I mean.Snack recommendation Badger milk and semi-chewed earthworm.  "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still better than JOE DIRT.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, let's start with this it was written by the guy who has written episodes of The Simpsons. This tells us it is a comedy. It stars Rob Schneider. This, too, tells us it is a comedy. It also stars Colleen Haskel, who was the forgotten Survivor of the TV show. This, tells us that the movie is not a comedy. It tells us it is a director and writer combination that wants desperately to be the Adam Sandler movies from the early 90's. The movies I am referring to are BILLY MADISON, HAPPY GILMORE, THE WEDDING SINGER and BIG DADDY. These, right here, were the movies that started the trend. And now every single star of SNL just has to have thier own movie.Aside from the not-so-good DEUCE BIGALOW MALE GIGOLO, this is Schneider's big moment. We even had Chris Farley doing his movies (good movies, I might add) back in the very early 90's that even dragged David Spade along for the ride. Now that Farley is gone, Spade has to have his own movies. This brought us the terrible JOE DIRT. What brought us THE ANIMAL? Answer Tom Brady. Again, the guy who wrote episodes of The Simpsons is the man responsible for this atrocity of a comedy that IS sometimes funny, I will admit. Director Luke Greenfield was also pretty unexperienced, as some of his only other film credits are attributed to a 'Swimsuit' video made for Sports Illustrated, I think.Edward Asner (the guy from HARD RAIN) was hardly in the movie at all. His scenes mainly consist of him entering a room as if he wanted to talk about something and sees somebody doing something stupid and then he delivers an un-funny one-liner and then just walks back out again. The end of the movie is what saves it. The whole end of the movie is comedic brilliance. It is very funny (I never thought I would say that about this movie) and is actually entertaining. The whole end of the movie made me actually want to see more. But, since this was the end of the movie, this did not happen.While the movie was not all good, it was not all bad either. It was ordinary and just plain average. It is a good comedy, one to take off the shelf every now and then when you are in the mood for something different or for something you haven't seen for a while. THE ANIMAL gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"REAL LIGHT HUMOR","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Made passable by the personality of Schneider and the rest of the cast. Schneider almost killed in a car crash is saved and put back together by a 'mad doctor' who uses animal parts. What happens then is that he develops he characteristics and some of the behavior patterns of the animals. Predictable with some funny scenes and basically a good kids' movie. "},{"Title":"Good for a giggle.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hypochondriac loser Marvin is not a real police office but an evidence clerk. While answering a 911 call he suffers near fatal injuries and is refurbished by some mad doctor with spare animal parts for exact list see cuts. Added to the is a 'boy meets girl' story and 'my boss hates me' story. The boss is very well played by John McGinley. Also included are some decent man-as-animal stunts and a good 'torch & mob' scene. Most of the comedy is action based fortunately the movie steers clear of slapstick (almost). Good for a giggle with perhaps a little too much cutting to meet the PG-13 rating. "},{"Title":"Makes effort to be hilarious!!!","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie over TV a few days ago and it did make me evoke a few laughs.Marvin is a human fitted by animal parts by a scientists. Subsequently the animal instincts begin to crop up at wrong times leading to hilarious situations. I particularly liked the way Marvin eyes on the goat. And the way he marks his territory around the Rianna's table and her house. Or the way he goes to the loo.... and neighs like a horse.Personally I feel that Jim Carrey would have been best-fit for the role of Marvin. Rob appeared to be over-doing it. Colleen Haskell plays the love interest Rianna. Rest of the cast goes unnoticed.Watch it for laughs and when you have no much choice. "},{"Title":"Licking Haskell's Face.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Animal (2001) Dir Luke Greenfield / Cast Rob Schnieder, Colleen Haskell, John C. McGinley, Cloris Leachman, Ed Asner Nauseous images of a grown man sniffing someone's butt in search of drugs. Film addresses communication urges from within with sick references to bestiality. Rob Schneider plays a cop in training who is in an accident where a rock crushes his car. The effect here look about as hideous as a roll of toilet paper bouncing off the car. A scientist patches him up using animal parts, which gives him unusual tendencies. Colleen Haskell plays an animal shelter employee impressed with his ability to allow birds to feed out of his gaping mouth. Concludes with dead bodies and a horrid plot twist. Schneider is alarmingly gross as dinner for two involves urination under the table. He also licks his crotch and seduces a goat. Haskell makes little impression despite the one key revelation she is involved in. John C. McGinley plays a rival cop investigating the murders and will get his just desserts in typical disgusting fashion. Finally there is Cloris Leachman appearing to remind us that she is far better than this. Directed by Luke Greenfield who must have thought he had an idea to present but like any potential idea it needs a followup screenplay that rises above formula as oppose to the gutter. Unfortunately it turned disgustingly savage and should be fed to lions. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"Never Ever Watch This Movie","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is literal sh*t. It is so depressing that you can't forgive yourself (or in my case your roommate) for watching this. It has no actual comedy, it only tries to be funny but fails at it horribly. You are highly advised to watch this movie if you want to commit suicide but lack in your intent.The acting of Rob Schneider is perfect but the storyline has so much wrong in it that he can't make it up for that with even his best efforts. I like Rob Schneider's acting but the movie was overall pathetic and actually PAINFUL TO WATCH.The best part of the movie was when Rob Schneider pulls a boy out of the water. A movie with such a low point to be its best says it all.It also had sick attempts of 'black' jokes which did nothing more than to kill the bit of life left in you a little more. FINALLY, PLEASE do not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"not one of Schneiders best.","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a fan of Rob Schneider and always find his films entertaining. Saying that I thought The Animal would be another hysterical comedy that would leave me smiling all night but it didn't really amount to that. All thought The Animal was entertaining it fell flat in many scenes and certain scenes I found just unnecessary. Schneider plays Marvin Mange an uncoordinated man who wants to follow in his fathers footsteps to become a police man however he is having some trouble doing that he can't pass the physical test and he gets no respect from his commanding officers. The story unravels and Marvin is in a car crash he awakes to have weird un human like abilities which he begins to use to his advantage. The film is just overall OK but I really didn't like the ending it was like some weird mash up that didn't make sense and wasn't really funny or had any good qualities to it. I wouldn't go out of my way to watch the film but it's an OK watch if your bored and can't find anything on Netflix. "},{"Title":"This animal should have been put down.","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The concept of this movie is simple a man named Marvin wants to become a full-time police officer and takes an emergency call that unintentionally leads him to his presumed demise that later turns out to have been prevented by a doctor that converts him into a bizarre experiment where he hosts various personality traits of different animals. So that means regardless what Marvin does in his daily lifestyle, it will both come with advantages and consequences based on his actions that comes from himself and the animals.That both could have been very humorous and functional only if the entire film was written, directed, and portrayed differently. This is another film distributed by Happy Madison that has failed again to bring the most memorable cast member of Saturday Night Live to a comedy presentation that had the chance to become an insanely original classic. Instead, it's a very disjointed and annoyingly patient 'comedy' that doesn't take more risks than time to make the audience feel illuminated by the ridiculous concept.Rob Schneider sadly will always be that one animal everyone tortures. This animal should have been put down for the sake of not salting his wounds. "},{"Title":"The Animal","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had seen the poster and DVD cover for this film many times, and I obviously know that the film was rated badly by all the critics, and not just because of the leading actor, who is in many bad films, so I had to see what all the fuss was, from director Luke Greenfield (The Girl Next Door). Basically puny and uncoordinated Marvin Mange (Razzie nominated Rob Schneider) has dreamt all his life of being a police officer like his father, but while he can't achieve this and pass the obstacle course he is a trainee in the local small town police station, and Sergeant Sisk (John C. McGinley) continues to pick on him. One day alone at the station he receives an emergency call about a robbery, and with all the officers at a softball game he decides to answer the call and rush to the scene of the crime himself, but while driving he swerves to avoid hitting a seal on the road, and this causes him to roll down the many hills below until he crashes to the ground with a broken body. Critically injured Marvin was rescued out of the wreckage by mad scientist Dr. Wilder (Michael Caton) who puts his body back together with the help of numerous animals parts, and days later he wakes up with not much recollection of what happened, and he finds that he can run faster than a horse, he can scare off mean dogs, and he no longer requires his asthma medicine, he wrongly assumes this is all due to the advertised badger milk he bought. While at the park while walking her dogs, Marvin meets animal shelter owner Rianna (Colleen Haskell), and he is instantly attracted to her, and his newfound animal instincts are taking over, so he cannot help catching a Frisbee in his mouth thrown by a man, then after seeing his airport security guard friend Miles (Guy Torry) to talk about his problem he finds the uncanny ability to sniff out drugs from a man's rectum. Marvin, praised as a hero catching a drug smuggler, is happy to be promoted to being a full-fledged police officer, but his animal behaviour is becoming slowly more and more strong, he even starts waking up in strange places with no memory of what he was doing, and he has been hearing about some kind of beast attacks occurring, and he assumes it is him. Dr. Wilder approaches Marvin and explains everything about his experiment and how he believes the animal instincts have had problematic side effects and his subject will become uncontrollable, but Marvin shuns this and wants carry on with his newfound status. He does find it difficult to control himself as time passes by, including persuading Riana to go to dinner with him, and during the evening he has to excuse himself while he feels the urges like a horse to make love, but he settles himself and ends the evening with a simple kiss and a promise to see her again soon. Later he attends a party held by the Mayor (Scott Wilson), and this is where his behaviour becomes crazy when he chases a cat like a dog and destroys things his path, this causes him to get fired, but he saves himself after saving the Mayor's son who he heard fall into the near lake and almost drown, combining the abilities of a seal and a dolphin, and he is instantly reinstated. Chief Wilson (Edward Asner) questions Marvin about the night time attacks by the reported beast, and a witness sketch looks very much like him, so he hides himself in his garage with a big dam like a beaver bolting the door, and Rianna finds this when she comes to see him, and they spend the night together, he tied him up to stop any possible attack he may make, but she untied him while he was asleep. Soon enough the police show up and pull down the barricade to possibly arrest Marvin, he runs away and heads for the woods, and the officers and an angry mob are there to catch him, but Dr. Wilder reveals that he had another patient who underwent the same crazy experiment and is actually the beast, it is Rianna. When the mob are about to punish one of the two culprits in the middle of their circle, Miles claims that it was him, because he believes that if black people do anything wrong no-one bats an eyelid and forgets everything, because they don't want to be racist, and this is exactly the case, and the whole thing let go by the police and mob. In the end Marvin and Rianna are happy together when they get married and give birth to a few children with the same abilities that they share, on television Dr. Wilder is seen winning the Nobel Peace Prize and revealing his new fiancée as the female co-presenter of the badger milk adverts, and big scars are seen on her back suggesting that the doctor has experimented on her as well. Also starring Louis Lombardi as Fatty, Adam Sandler as Townie, Family Guy's Norm MacDonald as Mob Member, Pete as Dimples the Dog, Bliss as Nelly the Goat, Kanoozi as Mr. Giggles and Louey as Henry the Orangutan. I will admit that I did laugh at a few bits of this film and found a fair bit of it a guilty pleasure, but ultimately I knew that the performance by Schneider was silly, the story was ridiculous and full of stupid, gross and inappropriate material, including bestiality and mild racism, so all in all I couldn't escape the feeling that this film was a terrible comedy. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"The tagline says it all.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers) The tagline for The Animal says that Marvin Mange, played by Rob Schneider, was not much of a man, and now is not much of an animal. Mange is portrayed as the manager of the evidence locker at the police station, who gets laughed at and spray painted even by eight year old kids because he's not a real officer. One day there is a company softball game the participation of which is so urgent that it requires every employee of the entire police force, from dispatchers to detectives, except of course for that evidence room guy. He only earns a badge after sniffing out a sizable amount of heroin in a rather unusual location, but evidently the force feels comfortable leaving him alone in charge of the entire station while they all go out to play softball. Someone calls 911, we're sorry, no one is available to take your call right now, so Mange answers it and takes off in his beat up car as his only means of getting to the scene of the crime in progress. To make a long story short, he drives his car off a cliff en route to the crime scene and survives the most brutal crash I've seen in a movie in years because some mad scientist took him to his lab and put him back together using various animal parts. This is the part of the movie when you know for sure that it is simply not to be taken seriously (well, this realization actually occurred when you saw Schneider's face on the cover with a pink feather in his mouth, but it was made even more sure here). We know that animal parts cannot be installed in a human to replace damaged organs. The human body is not a Volkswagon Bug, so we know that we can laugh freely at the rest of the movie. From his strange surgeries, Mange receives a massive X-shaped scar on his back, a transplant of Austin Powers' chest hair onto his butt, a much closer relationship with his last name, and a variety of animal abilities, which quickly earn him his long desired spot on the police force.The drawback of his sudden acquisition of all of these animal instincts is that the scientist that implanted all of these animal parts into his body was not picky about the abilities that he installed, if in fact he had any control over this little eventuality at all. As a result, Mange now has superhuman abilities such as a tremendously powerful sense of smell, the ability to run 60 miles an hour on all fours, perform the aquatic feats of a dolphin, and find himself uncontrollably attracted to a female goat, among many other things. This is, obviously, where the majority of the comedy in the film comes from, which is similar to the comedy in a movie that came out a few years earlier called Senseless, which I never saw because I saw the preview enough times (once) to be sure that the movie itself would be a waste of my time and money and any other thing that might possibly be spent on it. Mange is our hero from the beginning of the film, the guy that we are rooting for, and the film is pretty successful at making him a likable guy. He is not the best actor and is not even likely the kind of guy that you would want to befriend in real life, but like David Spade, he is an actor who plays off of his weaknesses with great success. We cheer when he sniffs out the heroin at the airport and is subsequently applauded, we laugh uncomfortably but good-naturedly at the mishaps that come about as a result of his animal content (such as eating out of the trash at the station or his inability to control his sex drive or, more amusingly, his overwhelming need to chase a Frisbee). He is an unwilling participant in a rivalry with a superior officer, Sergeant Sisk, which provides almost all of the good comedy in the film (and there is, I must admit, not necessarily a shortage of good comedy in the film), and we cheer him on through all of his trials and tribulations in his efforts to legitimately get into the police force. Sergeant Sisk, however, is not impressed with his new abilities and warns him not to get cute. Near the end of the film, Mange almost wins over Sisk as he rescues him from the rocky side of a bottomless ravine the likes of which can surely be found in the woods right behind every middle-class suburban neighborhood in America, after which comes the revelation that just about cost the film all credibility (or what little it might have had). It seems that Mange's love interest in the film, Rianna (a courtesy role given to Colleen Haskell, from TV's inexplicably successful `Survivor'), also found her way to the lab of the same scientist who implanted all of Mange's animal parts, so she is part beast herself, although we can't help remembering the restaurant scene when the film makes it abundantly clear that she was spared the hideous scars to the back, despite the fact that the scientist was not able to prevent this little side-effect on his own fiancée, the badger milk girl Yolanda. The film almost trips and falls on its face because of this one little detail, but the comedy is good enough so that we are willing to forgive this, although grudgingly.There are a couple of delightful cameos in the film. Adam Sandler (the reason that films like this get made) shows up briefly to play the exact role that Schneider played in the Waterboy, and Norm MacDonald, one of the funniest men in the world, in my opinion, shows up briefly  in a cameo that unfortunately is not at all amusing until his second appearance. John C. McGinley, however, steals the show in every scene that he is in. In his best role since Office Space, he flawlessly fills the role of Sergeant Sisk, the officer who likes to be in charge and wear uniforms that are six sizes too small. There is an absolutely hilarious scene where Sisk appoints himself as Mange's partner and then hits on Rianna, only to be turned down in favor of Mange and then to lose his temper (`Psst, Mange! A walk! I got an idea, why I don't I take you for a walk down to the women's store so I can get you a blouse to go along with the meter maid outfit that you're gonna be wearing from now on, cause THAT'S your new job!! Get in the car!'). I'd like to hear from ONE person who didn't laugh hysterically at that.I had extremely low expectations for The Animal, and as far as the story and plot and the pure intellectual content, I pretty much got what I expected. But there can be no arguing the fact that there is some genuine comedy here. It's clear that this movie fits right in with the bad films that have come from Adam Sandler and Rob Schneider and company, but even the worst of these movies (and I'm not even sure which one of them would be the worst, because they all have their own charm) has it's own good qualities and its own character. The Animal is certainly a cheesy comedy, but don't write it off immediately without checking it out for yourself. If nothing else, it is definitely good for some fun laughs. "},{"Title":"OK Movie","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was pretty funny.  It had a few good jokes.  What bothered me was the poor acting by Colleen from Survivor.  It was almost like she tried not to act.  She just read the script.  Her performance was offensive in my opinion.  All she was there for was to be a pretty face and a big name at the time, but I'm sure they could have found someone much better.  I doubt she'd get a role in a high school production. "},{"Title":"ermm..ok i guess","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  nothing like the best comedy you'll see this year but it has some funny moments and you should enjoy without it taxing your brain. The low point in the movie and turned my smile into a frown was when the 'i'm such a cool funny guy' norm macdonald popped up, his 45 seconds were far too much, just 5 seconds more and it would have knocked 3 stars off my rating. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Strangely enough, it's funny","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sat down prepared to watch another lamebrain, screwball comedy starring Rob Schneider, from the Adam Sandler production company that makes movies for old SNL pals who were on the show at the same time he was.  There was something different in this movie though that separated it from Deuce Bigalow.  Than it hit me that it's just a better story concept that they took and made a good run with. Right from the beginning the story quickly takes off and so do the jokes. Unlike Deuce Bigalow where the one joke movie is stretched as far as it could go, where the jokes are so lowbrow that they fall flat on the floor, this is different.  The jokes aren't all lowbrow, some are just great physical comedy and some are just off the wall gags.  Any cameos in Deuce looked like dramatic roles or were just plane annoying, while in The Animal they're a welcome break from the scene.  It slows down towards the end but picks up again with a memorable ending. It's not the funniest movie, though it might equal Adam Sandler's best stuff.  I'm glad it's not such a long movie, because if it had run any longer, it might have out stayed it's welcome like Deuce or some Sandler movies.  Watch this movie though because it will make you smile and it's definitely better than Deuce Bigalow or any number of movies brought to life with the same gang of SNL goofs. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie in itself was great, but I liked the side story.  This is what I mean, the whole thing where the black guy (I forget his name) was saying it was racist that people were being nice to him because he was black and that they were trying to make up for so many years of injustice and racism.  My favorite line comes at the end, spoken by Norm McDonald, I'm not going to be part of mob who kills a black guy.Another great movie from Happy Madison. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked...","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  but what else is new from Rob Schneider. The guy was great on SNL, but his movie career is the pits. I will say this was a little better than Deuce Biggalo, but that is not saying much. And what on earth is that girl from survivor doing in this!? Sure, she's cute, but what else does she bring to the table. A Blistex commercial!  Nothing is funny in this movie. The jokes are childish and the gross out humor doesn't work. At least toward the end, we find out why Rianna didn't whig out with all the weird stuff Marvin  was doing. (SLIGHT SPOILER) She was built the same way as Marvin.(END OF SPOILER)   FINAL VERDICT  Please don't support any more Rob Schneider movies. "}{"Title":"The worst waste of time I have ever been a part of.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Regrettably I saw this film.  This may be the most obscene waste of resources I am aware of.  Or, maybe it is only that I am not a person who finds references to animals and people having intercourse humorous. Perhaps it is because in the movie hunters and poachers are lopped in the same group, or maybe that Schneider plays the same role in every movie...stupid down on your luck no girlfriend until an event that is totally impossible saves you loser!  Please my friends, do not waste time with this trash...you would be better served by smashing your head in a hot waffle iron. "},{"Title":"Colleen Haskell has potential","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was just what I expected from Sandler and Schneider.  It diffently had a few laughs throughout the movie.  What I would really like to mention is Colleen Haskell.  I wasn't really into the whole Survivor thing, but Colleen has some great potential to become a great actress.  Her screen presense is memorizing and she seems very at ease in front of the camera. She could in time become a Julia Roberts romantic comedy protegee.Later "},{"Title":"This by far, was the stupidest movie ever made!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is not even funny, none of the jokes or references. Adam Sandler's role was small, and it sucked. Norm MacDonald's cameo was annoying. The Sergeant was an a**hole for no apparent reason. The girl from survivor can't win 1,000,000 or act. The car crash scene was just sick! Rob Schneider disappointed me. The whole Black man idea was stupid. How about the ending? That was brilliant! DON'T WASTE THE 20$ TO BUY THIS MOVIE, OR THE 4$ TO RENT IT!! IM SICK JUST THINKING ABOUT IT!!!! "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this was a non-stop great comedy. it was better than the first caddyshack. remember how good that was? believe me i am hard on movies and this was fabulous!!!! no down time....continuos fun !!!! you have to be brain dead not to LOVE this wonderful, brilliant comedy. GREAT !!!!!!  "},{"Title":"I can only recommend this movie for two reasons...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING SLIGHT SPOILERS, BUT I CAN TELL YOU WHAT'S FUNNY SO AS TO SAVE YOU THE DISCOMFORT OF HAVING TO SIT THROUGH THE REST OF THE MOVIE TO GET TO THEM. ...and they are that near the end, some SNL alumni show up to provide the only things I could laugh at. 1Norm MacDonald makes a funny-ish question segment about riot torches.2 Remember how Rob shows up near the end of every Adam Sandler movie yelling You can do it!!!? Well, Adam shows up here and does the same to Rob here. Not a bad stunt. Too bad they wasted such a good trick on this movie.Beyond this, I can't recommend this movie to anyone who isn't heavily into gross humor. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 2001!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the most unbelievable and unrealistic movies around, but it is an amazing source of cheap laughs and fun gags.  Rob Schneider is outstanding, as is the rest of the cast, acting out some of the most ridiculous situations I've ever seen in movies.  From the very beginning, to one of the funniest endings ever, this one will keep you laughing for hours. "},{"Title":"Worth a 99cent rental","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was told that this movie was pretty good but when I finally watched it(I hesitated to check it out because the previews looked lame) my first impression of it stuck.  I give this movie 2stars out of 4.  I was able to rent it for 99cents(had a coupon) and it was worth a 99cent rental but not for full price.  The only thing I liked about this movie was that Colleen Haskell reminds me of the gals over here(nice cute tanned blondes).Only really funny scene Where Rob gives the orangatuan a nipple twist and the orangatuan starts screaming.  Now that's a classic.One more thing Colleen Haskell is cute but she's not really an actress. Maybe she should just host the survivor series and stick to that.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Deuce, but not a bad one.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright well ive been watchin rob s. for a while now with his work on SNL and appearances in adam sandler movies and i especially loved his work in Deuce Bigalow, so i thought this would be a maybe good as Deuce or even better.Well i was part-right.The Animal had its moments, a couple good laughs here and there, i especially loved Norm Macdonald's small cameo role and adam sandlers little cameo as the u can do it man. All in all i would go with Deuce Bigalow over the animal but its up to u, if u want a low-brow, SNL type comedy i would go for it.5 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Stupid, Gross, Wonderful","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is so stupid it is hysterical. I hate the Naked Gun movies and Airplane movies, but this dumb humor and sexual innuendo had me busting a gut! My husband didn't want to watch it so I put it in at bedtime so he could fall off to sleep. He lasted from start to finish...that says a lot in itself. HA HA. Not a movie for children, but a good chuckle that keeps you entertained through and through. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough to keep me from falling asleep.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE ANIMAL (2001) Rating 5/10First off, let me just say that I liked Rob Schneider's first starring comedy Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo (7/10). Was it stupid? Yes! Did it make me laugh? Yes! So, I was expecting much of the same with this flick, in terms of humor and overall enjoyment. But, that I did not get. For I was only semi-entertained. I do say that if you're looking for some good laughs with this flick, just watch the trailer because that was actually funny. But once you watch the movie, and you know all of those funny scenes (which are all in the trailer), they just aren't funny anymore.I was really looking forward to this movie too and I needed to laugh, and to see the lovely Colleen Haskell, who did a good job for her first movie role. I enjoyed watching her. She's cute and the camera seems to love her. But all I can say about the movie is what a disappointment. I was expecting more. I mean sure, it had some funny parts and was entertaining enough. But it wasn't as funny as I expected and I didn't have as much fun as I thought I would. It wasn't horrible just not what I expected. And poor poor Colleen, her cuteness and charm were enough to get her out of this movie unharmed but it's just too bad this had to be her first movie. Couldn't she have acted cute in another movie, a better one? I guess not.Anyway, overall, the movie gave me a few laughs and eye candy from Colleen, and was entertaining enough to keep me from falling asleep, but it was still disappointing and not as funny as it could have been. I did like the little twist ending though and the last ten minutes were pretty good. But other than that The Animal just barely gets an okay grade (or a half-good grade) from me.If there's nothing better to rent or you are a hard-core Colleen Haskell or Rob Schneider fan, then what the hell, give it a shot, but don't expect anything special. "}{"Title":"Decent, entertaining enough, NOT boring!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a short, charming and nonsensical movie which I really enjoyed. There are lots of good laugh scenes, and the plot keeps moving at a fast enough pace.There were some cute quirks in the story line itself that made the movie and characters even more enjoyable, despite the rest of the plot being fairly predictable.Michael Caton, who played the mad animal doctor, was absolutely hilarious. Rob Schneider does a really good portrayal of Marvin, the goofy wannabe police officer whose life is saved by getting rebuilt with animal parts after a big accident. He's definitely a funny actor who pulls off this type of roll well, and with impeccable timing.  Marvin's love interest, played by Colleen Haskell, delivered her lines ok enough but the chemistry didn't really seem to be there between the two. The Rianna character definitely had the potential to be one of the more interesting characters, but most scenes with her in it had Marvin stealing (or saving) the scene.All in all,  this is a really fun comedy and delivers a laughable viewing experience.  Of course it's completely unbelievable at times, but that just adds to the amusement if you let it.  Don't expect it to make sense,  just sit back, be entertained, and get ready to laugh! "},{"Title":"This movie achived its goal!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is fun to be had in this movie.  A lot of people come out and say What a bad film.  Well they are wrong. Ask yourself this question Is it *trying* to be the next Pulp Fiction or Magnolia?  The answer is *no*, it is not.  So what was its goal?  Well its goal was to have some stupid unrealistic jokes to make you laugh.  If it made you laugh then it has done its job.  So just leave your brain at the door and come in and just enjoy this funny, stupid movie.Rob Schneider is, as always funny.  There is a few things in here that will remind you of The water boy which is excellent, well placed and funny. Adam Sandler makes a great, funny cameo apearence.  Just to see him there was excellent.Could you imagine if *every* movie was like Magnolia or Pulp Fiction? (I LOVE both movies) Movies like this are needed so you can go in and forget about all the serious movies and just laugh at the movie.  It's all it wants to do and it's all it's trying to do.Is it a great film?  No, not at all.  It's funny, that's it.  This film wont win oscars.  It's not that kind of flick.  There is many flaws in this movie, but that's ok.  This isn't a movie that you study and look deep into.So stop being a movie snob, lighten up, leave your brain at the front door and go enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly Hilarious","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Throughout the film, there are too many funny scenes to comment on. Initially there is the stage where the characters are introduced. They've done an excellent job at making this part comedy.  Though, once the movie really starts, strap yourself down, and get ready for some tummy exercises, as you'll be laughing none stop.On DVD, you can see the deleted scenes, and yes i agree that what they deleted was probably too much, and not that hilarious..The movie has the typical, love interest, bad guy, and interesting plot towards the end.There is also the Adam Sandler part which is interesting, as there is a role reversal to a previous film.Keep on laughing.Great movie from my personal experience, and from two other friends...so funny we've watched its three times already. (in the last two days) "},{"Title":"We All Laughed Out Loud","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It sure is a great experience when your whole family can laugh out loud.This movie has that ability. Rob Schneider is great in this movie. This movie is old fashioned funny. Not obscene, clean language and simple fun. Rent it for some great smiles. But I think what amazed me the most was the surprise of the acting ability of Survivor's Colleen Haskell. We all kept commenting we had seen her before but couldn't place it. Because she was never in a movie before...  she was a Survivor contestant! She is extremely charismatic and pretty. And there was a great chemistry between her and Rob. She has the natural magic to be a great star and I hope she makes it! The DVD interview tells this story and all the crew loved her. Go Colleen! "},{"Title":"It's a slapstick comedy (for those who missed it).  Enjoy it on it's own merits","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not really sure why so many people seem to have a collective downer on this movie. It's a comedy for crying out loud. Are they really expecting Oscar winning acting, or expecting people to walk away shaking their heads in amazement? I personally believe the people that dislike this are people with superiority complexes whom don't know their ass from their elbow. How hard is it to sit down with a beer and relax, take something on it's own merits rather than make a conscious effort to try and feel intellectually superior to it. And whilst I agree I didn't love it, I still liked and respected it for it's own value. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Animal is really just nothing special at all, Rob Schneider normally isn't known for the best work in all Hollywood, his most notable would have to be Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo and his cameo work with in Happy Madison movies. The start of the movie is pretty decent, but the whole plot is extremely fictional which normally entertains, but in this case it really doesn't make you feel happy while watching it. Don't get me wrong because this movie does have it's moments that are funny and it will deliver some decent, yet small laughs. I wouldn't bother checking it out instead rent Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo, Big Daddy, The Hot Chick or something else that it at least better than this one.5/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it. I do not understand why it is rated 46%.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mean this is by no means a fantastic movie but it is an enjoyable movie that I am proud to say takes place in my movie collecting. The movie is about Marvin, a lonely nerd who is not great at his job at the Police Station who, after a car crash gets animal parts making him very skilled. The movie is great to laugh at I think people take movies way to seriously nowadays I mean how can you hate this movie. It is just so damn funny. Overall this movie is funny and is a must watch for Rob Schneider fans and I personally think that if they need to make sequels they need to make a sequel of this movie. I rate this movie 63% for keeping me amused. "},{"Title":"Schneider debuts as a lead","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Was it silly? Yes. Was it absurd? Yes. Just what I expected from a movie titled The Animal starring Rob Schneider. Rob Schneider plays a lovable loser named Marvin that fails over and over again to make the police force. After a most exaggerated accident Marvin is taken by a mad scientist and operated on. After the experiment Marvin has the abilities and characteristics of a bunch of different animals. It all makes for some funny situations. It is a bit over the top and even the plot is a bit silly, but it all works because of the type of movie it is. It is not the best break out movie for Schnieder as the lead, but it is nothing to unexpected. "},{"Title":"The Animal 2001","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hello, I not only saw the movie The Animal, I was an extra in it. Part of it was filmed in Sonoma , California. The Star was far more entertaining than what the film was able to capture for the audience. I think in the future he will find a film that will make him taken serious as an actor. I namely refer to Rob Schneider. He had a lot of Charlie Chaplin in him. Some of the movie was also filmed in the town of Calistoga near Napa Valley. Colleen Haskell was lovely in it and it was nice to work with her. I do not know if she will be an actress in the future. For myself I have very conservative taste's in films. Far more than  The Animal . "},{"Title":"Animal.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm probably not the first person to say that I don't like Rob Schneider, the star from dreadful films such as Duce Bigalow and The Hot Chick. But The Animal is actually a pretty funny but also very dumb movie.Schnider's character get's badly hurt in an accident so a nice doctor puts organs from animals in him, in order to make him survive. Well, since this is Hollywood you can probably figure out what happens next. Schneider get's a lot of odd supernatural talents from the organs and starts to act very strange, but his way of helping people also makes him very popular.This movie is filled with the usual slapstick jokes but for some reason it does actually work. This is funny but I'm not really sure why and Schneider is not annoying either, and NO, I don't know why. Enjoyable if you look for lighthearted fun.6/10 "}{"Title":"Hilarious - most of the time.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first half hour alone has more genuine, hearty laughs than most average comedies put together; in the second half the hilarity slows down a bit, but the movie still comes up with a bang of an unpredictable ending. The director shows a flair for unconventionality (is that a word?) in the way he sets up his gags, and Rob Schneider compensates for his lack of screen charm with his physical agility. This may a stupid movie, but I laughed A LOT while watching it (it's not right to lie about such things).    (**1/2)P.S. Could Colleen Haskell possibly be any cuter?  "},{"Title":"Provides couple of really good laughs","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though The Animal is filled with extravagantly hilarious moments like the car crash or the over-eager asker in the lynch mob (when do we get to light our torches?) I feel that they could have done a whole lot more with a basic idea that's obviously this funny. Colleen Haskell was quite cute in her first and so far the only movie role but although I feel Rob Schneider was far from being actually bad I wonder what someone like Jim Carrey would have come up with in the role of Marvin. John C. McGinley has never been a disappointment to me. He was hilarious in Nothing to lose and Office space and once again he proofs how bloody funny he can be (Now...who wants to go for a ride with a REAL police officer?!). So I guess in the end The Animal will provide lots of laughs for any comedy lover. "},{"Title":"Very funny throughout, one of the better silly comedies of 2001","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you see this movie, you're in for a laugh a minute ride that's sure to have you satisfied in the end.  Silly comedies that are very unrealistic and aimed for kids dont usually turn out this good.  It leaves you with a taste of the old classic Rob Schiender and Adam Sandler gross out comedies that rocked your world B, 7/10, **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Schiender's saved himself with this one","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rob Schinder has always been funny to me, but when I say his first starring role in Deuce Bigalow, I was highly upset. Last summer I saw The Animal he got me back as fan. Rob shows his true comdeic genius as Marvin and Collen Haskell does a fine acting job. "},{"Title":"Redundant, Redundant, Redundant!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Usually a fan of silly/stupid movies I checked this one out hoping it might be something along the lines of Deuce Bigalow or any Adam Sandler movie. It managed to amuse me a few times but overall the plot was not only predictable (which is to be expected) but incredibly redundant!The film beat the same two jokes to death (Rob wants food, Rob wants sex) with only the slightest variations each time around.  By the end I felt like I was watching the same 15 minutes of movie over and over again.  This film would have made a mediocre 45 minute flick but at its final running time it is an absolute bore!2/10 "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"            When I saw previews for The Animal I expected another slapstick, crude humorish SNL like movie. Whenever I see Adam Sandler, Rob Schneider or David Spade in a movie preview I always know it's going to be like what I said above. I think everyone pretty much expects this, just take a look at Joe Dirt, Happy Gilmore,Big Daddy, Little Nicky, or Deuce Bigalow. But I must say I was a bit surprised at the Animal because it wasn't as crude, and slapstick as the others(although it is still pretty downright dumb funny). Now movies like Joe Dirt and Happy Gilmore I give 2 and a half stars usually, because the plot suffers as well as the comedy. But as I said the animal surprised me and I give it 3/5 stars. also, check out the notable appearences by Rob's SNL friends Adam Sandler and Norm Mac Donald. "},{"Title":"An Okay, But Weird Comedy.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"       The Animal was, I have to say hilarious, and was very entertaining, but it was different from other comedies. Rob Schneider was really hilarious and made himself really act like an animal. The Animal is a fun Friday night comedy and I give it a 7 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Here goes another hit comedy!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What more can I say? The movie really sounds good for it's plot, scripts, characters and, even for it's soundtrack which have fit to create a better chemistry in making a wacky and funniest picture of the year. Well, Rob Schneider could be the next Robin Williams, or probably will become another Hollywood's most sought after comedian for this generation. He is both professional and naive in portraying characters whose impact leaves lasting impression to wide audiences, and one which will render a comic act unforgettable and wildly cherish. Combine with the talent of soft speaking, amateur but promising Coleen Haskell of the Survivor fame ( well it was her film debut ), the movie astoundingly absorbs all the merits that a comedy picture could ever had. The movie has Rob Schneider cast as Marvin, a not-so-lucky-guy who was deprived of all wits and agility to pursue his ambition of becoming a law enforcer. Not until after encountering a freak accident that it precipitated a sudden twist in his career, and to his body functions as well. Alongside with his effort in unraveling the mystery of his strange behavior was a pretty veterinarian in the character of Rianna (Coleen Haskell). Because of his special ability that was credited from the different animal organs implanted in his body, Marvin now became the subject of envy by Sgt.Sisk (John C. Mcginley), a braggart police officer who contributed greatly to the funny conflict that always happen between a bad guy and a good guy. I have seen a myriad of hilarious films before, and I will categorically put this one into my top post among all of those while I still wait for another candidate to queue for the position. I'm commending this movie based on my personal judgment and I don't want to steal somebody's perception about which comedy picture should be occupying the top post. "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at home, but bring your sense of humor","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie with my sister, when both of us felt like seeing a dumb, fun movie. We got exactly what we expected, and had a good time at it.There were quite a few parts which were just very funny, some gross, some that left me scratching my head. Overall, I think the best way to describe my feelings about it is to say that it was worth the price of a matinee ticket, but possibly not an evening show.You have to be in the right mood to see this one, but if you are, it's great. 1/10 as a cinematic creation, 10/10 for what it is. "},{"Title":"made me laugh!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was good, a classic movie mada with ex-Saturdat Night Live people. Made me laugh but is not the funniest movie I have ever seen.  If you are in the mood this movie will make you laugh and you will enjoy your time. "}{"Title":"Not Worth The Ticket Price","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A little too ridiculous , a little too contrived . The premise would have worked better with more specific info on what organs were transplanted from which species...it seems that no one made up their minds on this issue or else several writers working on different parts of the movie picked different animal organ donations for whatever the situation required , after previously showing a characteristic of some other animal. It seemed like a series of skits loosely woven together at times. Colleen Haskell was adorable and did an excellent job in her debut and I loved the ending  but overall it was not a movie I would tell people to rush to the theater to see.  Wait for the video and save a few dollars. "},{"Title":"A guy that has strong animal tendencies","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very idiotic movie about a man who, by no fault of his own, has very strong animal tendencies.  Some spots were funny but there were not enough of the funny areas to make up for the stupidity of the rest of the movie. The scenery was probably the best aspect of the movie.  "},{"Title":"please do not see this and give the green light for more","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was kinda forced to see this by a friend (my own fault).  Unless you're a 14 year old male, this movie is absolute garbage, and even then it's a stretch.  I enjoy many of the very stupid SNL spin off movies by Adam Sandler and Chris Farley.  However, Rob Schneider doesn't even compare -- not by a long shot.  Not funny at all except for a couple cameos.  DO NOT see this. "},{"Title":"The Worst Film Ever Made","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel compelled to add a comment here, after being lured to this pathetic excuse for a movie by favorable reviews...The Animal is quite simply the worst film of any genre I've ever seen. I'd like to join in the class action suit if anyone has details of how to get on board. (referring to Sony's use of a phony critic).Some bad movies are funny, this one was just painfully stupid. It seems as though the script was written by some of the animals in the cast, (whose acting surpassed that of any of their human counterparts).I can't believe that someone paid to produce this movie. I requested my money back after I walked out - something I've never done before.  "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR MONEY!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It wasn't funny, it wasn't clever, and there were no special effects!  If you think a guy barking like a dog and chasing cats for an hour and a half is funny, you'll love this!  Otherwise, save your money!  My kids didn't even think it was funny--and they think EVERYTHING is funny!  This could very well be the worst movie I've EVER seen!   "},{"Title":"Sucked Hard","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked Deuce Bigalow (mainly because of Eddie Griffin), and decided to give this a chance mainly because we were at the mall and it happened to be starting in five minutes.  It was painfully bad.  I laughed mainly from nervous embarrassment for everybody involved.  Whenever a bit was close to being funny, they ran it into the ground.  Sandler's cameo is lame, but Norm McDonald's may have been the best part of the movie.  Please don't see it. I beg you. "},{"Title":"Rob does it agin!","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen the trailer to this movie at alot of the previous flims I've went too and have been awaiting it ever since and man did it pay off . Rob Schneider has become one of the best comics in hollywood and The Animal was as funny as a movie can be. In the flim he plays Marvin a pathetic loser  a comedy staple that dies in a car wreck but is brought back to life using animal parts which cause Marvin serious control problems . This movie we'll likely be one of the funniest movies of the year. So don't even think about missing it . In fact it is so funny that I'm not blowing a single joke here just look for a surprise cameo or two and get ready to laugh.A+  "},{"Title":"Funny movie that keeps you laughing!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a big Rob Schneider fan ever since his SNL days, so that was one reason I went to see this movie. I loved it. It was what I would call a laugh-a-minute comedy. A surprise entrance by Adam Sandler made me enjoy the end even more. The car crash scene was really awesome, and you can tell some time went into that. Over all, a very well done movie with a gorgeous side kick for Schneider. Can't wait for his next movie. "},{"Title":"typically dreadful","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is every bit as bad as it looks. Plot-wise, it has no reason to exist. Rob Schneider is typically annoying. Ed Asner is wasted, but at least he sleepwalked through the whole thing so let's hope he's now well rested. The only saving grace is the surprising charm of Colleen Haskell, and the charismatic Ron Rogge in a too small role. "},{"Title":"I must be getting old...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Funny bits sprinkled on a stale old piece of story.  Not easily digestable.  Duece Bigelow was much funnier!  The story is very simplistic, I didnt care about the characters, and a lot of the situations were boring or unlikely.  Sophmoric would be a compliment.  Again, see deuce instead for a better example of this kind of humor. "}{"Title":"Stupid idea, but funny movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Animal stars Rob Schneider who in the movie gets the antics going as he becomes an animal filled with many different animal organs (I counted dolphin, elephant, beaver, horse, dog, goat, cat, cheetah and possibly a bear somewhere among many).  This premise is one of the stupidest the SNL retiree film guys have come up with, but once again is made worthwhile by Schneider's consistently zany and nutty performance.  Norm McDonald provides the film's funniest moment; executive producer Sandler also makes an appearance.  Best gag though- the badger milk.  B+ "},{"Title":"Too much for Rob Schneider?","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time that I saw Rob Schneider try to carry a movie, it was in Deuce Bigalow. I'll give Schneider some props for Deuce but the movie really wouldn't have been as funny as it is w/o the hilarious characters that steal the show from Deuce. Eddie Griffin was hilarious as the pimp and so was that Middle Eastern guy from the Mummy, he was freakin' hilarious! But in The Animal, the biggest problem with the movie was that there was no Eddie Griffin (just like Next Friday needed Chris Tucker).In The Animal, Schneider does have another black sidekick but he's just not as funny as E.G. That Survivor chick is alright, she's pretty cute, but she's still not much of an actress. The movie relies way too much on Schneider for its laughs and helps him out by making him into The Animal so Schneider can get some by acting like a horny goat or a hungry seal. It's pretty funny but it gets a little old and the gags are not nearly like laff out loud like I did when I first saw E.G. in Deuce Bigalow (man that guy's funny). It's a decent movie to see on video or something but definitely not worth $9.  "},{"Title":"rancid","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies ever. The script, bad, The acting, worse. Save yourself the time and money and just leave this one alone. If Colleen wasn't on Survivor we would have been spared that pathetic attempt at an acting job. Hopefully her 15 minutes are about up. I cant say that the time passed that quickly in the theater. Stay Away. "},{"Title":"One 'Animal' of a movie","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know it is only the beginning of summer, but I already think that THE ANIMAL is the best movie of the summer. It is has non-stop laughs, a good debut performance from Collen Haskell from the CBS hit television series, SURVIVOR, interesting characters, some suspenseful moments, and groovy music. Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Animal parts make a strange man even stranger.","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is silly. Funny. Crude. Scattered with sexual humor. A border line hilarious hit. Rob Schneider has one heck of a car accident. He is found by a weird doctor(Michael Caton)that puts him back together with various animal parts. This meek geek of a guy becomes...well animal like. Situational and sight jokes keeps this movie rolling along without a hitch.The main reason I wanted to see this is not that I am a Schneider fan; I am a fan of Colleen Haskell, who plays the role of girlfriend. Miss Haskell, one of the original members of the TV hit SURVIVOR, fared well in her movie debut. Her lines were nothing compared to her effervescent smile and bedroom eyes. Hope this jump starts a career for her.Veteran actor Edward Asner plays the mild mannered Police Chief. Also in the cast are John C.McGinley, Cloris Leachman and cameos for funny men Norm Macdonald and Adam Sandler.This movie manages not to demean or gross out anyone. A little potty humor goes a long way. Schneider and Haskell seem to work smoothly together and give a feel of freshness to the project. This flick is funnier than you might think. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but really enjoyable","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rob Schneider seems to grow as a comedic actor with every feature he does. I have to admit that when I saw Deuce Bigalow is was not expecting much. Same with this movie, but in both cases I am pleasantly suprised. I will have to get this one on DVD too. Survivor's Colleen Haskell was quite cute and charming, with more coaching she may indeed have a Hollywood career.But I have to say tha she was more fascinating on the island in her bikini. Overall I suggest it as a date movie. Maybe an afternoon bargain flick. "},{"Title":"pure Sandlerian crap","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How movies like this one get made and even are successful at the box office is way beyond any human's understanding.  The only thing I can think about is that we are all a bunch of morons to laugh at this s***.  The acting is terrible, the plot is super flimsy, and worse of all the jokes pass right through you since one is hard pressed to understand what the point of the moronic joke is. Don't rent this rubbish, don't waste your money, go check something better like...O'reilly factor or other crap like that.  Avoid this at all costs. "},{"Title":"Very bad comedy, One or two funny parts but thats it.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very bad movie. Rob schneider is a good actor but he should not do movies like this. This was a very bad comedy. I watched it because my friends told me to watch it but I didn't know that this movie would be just so bad. No one should watch this movie.  My rating - 1/10 "},{"Title":"Take it from a Rob Schneider fan, this is movie stinks like a skunk","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a big Rob Schneider fan up until this movie.It was totally juvenile.  I hated this movie.  It insulted my intelligence and will make me think twice about seeing another of Rob's movies.  My wife who likes him too said What was he thinking, who would want to see his next movie?.Colleen Haskell of Survivor fans should be stranded on a deserted island.  Her acting was horrible also.  Why was she cast?  The only thing I could think of is they thought we'll get people who like Rob and Survivor to see this movie even if it stinks.Others have written that this movie is intended for those 10-15.  Maybe that is so.  I spoke to one kid I know and he liked it.  But if you are over let's say 20 don't waste your time.Come on Rob, please make a good movie.  You can be very funny but this movie stinks and I am mad at you for taking my $8 and wasting an hour and a half of my time.  Easily one of the worst comedies I have ever seen on par with the Pesci and Glover bomb Gone Fishin.  PEUW! "},{"Title":"Lacking in any content or humour!!!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hired this movie expecting a few laughs, hopefully enough to keep me amused but I was sorely mistaken.  This movie showed very minimal moments of humour and the pathetic jokes had me cringing with shame for ever hiring it... Aimed at an age group of 10-15, this movie will certainly leave viewers outside of these boundaries feeling very unsatisfied.  Worth no more than 3 votes highly unrecommended for anyone not wanting to waste 2 hours of their lives. "}{"Title":"One of the worst of all time","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The past year has been very liberal with a lack of talent and bad ideas being made into films.  The Animal, when compared with the likes of Dude Where's my Car? and Joe Dirt, may have some redeeming value because the lead character is, at least, a likeable loser, but the jokes in this movie are so bad and juvenile that it doesn't lift itself above the other trash of the year candidates.  Even the special effects, if you want to call them that are amateurish. How ideas like this ever see the light of day makes me wonder about the sanity of the entire production crew.  Didn't they see that this wasn't working while shooting the film?  Can't they kill films like this during production? Everybody involved should be ashamed. "},{"Title":"Bad, don't bother","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say?  This one is bad.  The humor is crass and at times just plain gross.  The acting was okay and did not help the film.  The plot was ordinary and did not leave much to the imagination.  So overall bad.  However, I have to admit it did  have a few good jokes but these were few and far between and not enough to save the film.  Overall, don't bother  (2 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Rob Schneider needs to be forcefully retired...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...for thinking THE ANIMAL was a worthy piece of his time.  That's two strikes Schneider, DEUCE BIGALOW and now ANIMAL, two lame, unfunny, unoriginal, poorly made 'comedies'.  Shame on you too, Adam Sandler, you're better than this.  You don't have to produce all your friends' movies just to make a quick buck.  Because you know you can't say This is great material...I just had to be involved.  Your films have gotten progressively worse as well.  Anyway, Rob Schneider should not be allowed to topline a film...if this is all he can give us.  Shameful that the studios release this drudge because it's a sure thing at the box office.  God forbid they take their audience into account and show us some respect.  You want our money?  You need to earn it folks.  By the way, I saw this for free.  You didn't get mine.  HAHAHA!  By the way Ms. Haskell, that's enough acting alright?  I felt like I was watching some made-for-tv-movie on Showtime.  Boring acting.  Lame script.  Dumb idea.  Only getting 4 laughs in a 90-minute film is not a good sign. "},{"Title":"If you've seen the previews, you've seen the movie","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know all those funny bits that you've seen in the preview (over and over and over)?  That's pretty much it for funny stuff.  This movie would have been perfect for Rob Schneider...it's just his type of comedy, but it just sort of runs flat.  The few surprises the movie holds are ho-hum.  Wait for this to come out on video, then wait for your video store to have a sale on rentals.  "},{"Title":"Not fun, not amusing.  Just plain stupid","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Rob Schneider. He's funny to watch, but not anyone I would want to be friends with. He's funny in that you love to see him kicked when he's down kind of way. His characters are typically stupid, fluffy, superficial little annoyances as people, and portrayed way over the top. His presence was the only thing that took away from 50 First Dates. Look at Hot Chick. Annoying! This is no different except where Hot Chick at least had the element of magickal earrings to be found interesting, this attempt has NO element to be found interesting.His performance is his standard fare, and this character is even more annoying. Not even Adam Sandler's cameo could make me laugh this time.In an uneven anti-comedy/wannabe monster movie (?), Schneider (Frankenstein's Monster) is repaired by a would-be doctor (Frankenstein) with animal parts, lacking human ones (stupid), making Schneider's character crave beaver milk, swim and call like a dolphin, and want to fornicate with goats/sheep/whatever.It's the most frivolous inane work Schneider's ever done. I was not entertained.It rates a 1.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"I regret losing 1.5 hours of my life watching this","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without question the WORST movie I saw this year (2001) and may be in contention for one of the WORST ever...The only thing that almost made me not turn it off was the fact that the hot survivor girl was in the movie. Even that doesn't help the pathetic story and horrible attempt at humor. Two words sum this one up....abso-f-ing-lutely horrible "},{"Title":"Starvin' Marvin","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Truly successful comedies are more difficult to make than other types of films.  This comedy succeeds in many departments, and the talent involved makes it that much more successful. Marvin Mange (SNL's alumnus, the very talented comedian/actor Rob Schneider) has an automobile accident which, under normal circumstances, would have surely killed him.  A brilliant, yet delusional, scientist saves his life by subjecting Marvin to an experimental surgery that requires certain and various animal-organ donations.Marvin is soon starving for the intimate attentions of Rianna, one of the most physically (and personally) appealing antivivisectionists he's ever run into.   Animal doesn't take itself too seriously to be a drama, and lets loose just enough for it to be taken--surprisingly enough--seriously.  I didn't expect too much from the Rianna character (the fledgling actress coming straight out of the real-life television series Survivor), and I was nevertheless enchanted by her sincere/competent acting contributions.There are the occasional (and repetitive) nods to the television series The Six Million Dollar Man and the horror film An American Werewolf in London (among other classics), and the script is never too broadly (or desperately) 'painted' to escape proper and hilarious audience identification.Adam Sandler and Norman MacDonald play mob townies, the proper 'village idiot' cameos one expects to see in truly funny SNL comedy movies such as this.  You have to see these talented supporting players for yourself to truly benefit from their comedic timing and genuine quality.I recommend you see The Animal even if you might possibly be allergic to pet dander.  You won't regret having spend this much time studying animal husbandry. "},{"Title":"God awful.","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm usually laughed at by my friends for liking Adam Sandler and Rob Schneider movies.This one, however, is bad. And it's not so bad that it's funny again. It's just bad.The jokes fall flat, the premise isn't funny, the plot sucks; it's just unwatchable.John McGinley is the only slightly funny thing about it, and Norm MacDonald's 45 on-screen seconds are funny. That's it.If you want a Rob Schneider movie worth watching, try Deuce Bigelow. This one will just leave you annoyed you wasted your time. "},{"Title":"The quality of the concept matches the quality of the film","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's depressing to think that there are starving artists in the world that can't even get people to watch their work that they've spent day and night on. It's depressing to think artists who are lucky enough to get their film distributed in theaters may have several showings completely empty and unattended. It's, however, even more depressing to think that Luke Greenfield's The Animal, a comedy starring Rob Schneider as a policeman who gets organ transplants from animal donors, grossed over $80 million its theatrical run. Every aspiring filmmaker who has struggled dearly to breed creativity and life back into a medium dominated by idiocy and remakes should feel insulted.This is a hopelessly unfunny movie from the get-go. The premise is not cute, amusing, or mildly intriguing. It's a new low in comedy standards, which is somewhat unsurprising seeing as it's a Happy Madison production, the company owned by Adam Sandler. Sandler shouldn't be completely exempted from the blame, as much larger blame lies in Schneider himself. Schneider is simply not that funny of a screen presence. He lacks wit and sophistication, and often becomes unwatchably goofy (this comes from the same guy who likes the work of the late Chris Farley), to the point where functionality is just unforeseeable.Schneider plays Marvin Mange, a genial, but uncoordinated secretary at a police-station. Marvin desperately wants to live up to his father's legacy by becoming a police officer, but his incompetence and complete ineptitude always gets the best of him. After a horrific car accident, Marvin needs several organ transplants, which come from animal donors and are installed by a mad scientist (Michael Caton). Marvin now inherits the traits and behavior of his donors, which include a variety of feral behaviors I hated to endure and will spare you the misfortune of hearing.My question, who is laughing at all this? I see theaters of angry patrons frozen with cold silence. Who finds a grown man sniffing butts, running around uncontrollably, squawking like a bird, and acting like a nut funny and amusing? The film is rated PG-13, which is very surprising, seeing as seven year olds are too old for this lame, uninspired schtick. You wouldn't give anyone under thirteen Pixie Sticks, Kool-Aid, Pepsi, and a Super-Soaker all at the same time? Why would you give them the equivalent of unhealthy binging in seeing The Animal? Comedies that promote ambition and reward disappointment are some of the worst kinds. Comedies that promote relatively nothing and deliver on the same level, or sometimes worse, are the worst kinds. I hold the opinion that most ideas could be made into a good movie, if catered to their primary features, but I fail to see even comedy greats like the Marx Brothers, Charlie Chaplin, or the Three Stooges pulling off something of this magnitude to likable heights. This is one of the most appallingly unfunny films I've ever seen.Starring Rob Schneider, Colleen Haskell, and Michael Caton. Directed by Luke Greenfield. "},{"Title":"Your Mentally Retarded if you like this movie!","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been reading the reviews for this movie and now I wanna kill my self. I don't wanna live in a world where people find this move or Rob Schneider funny. What is wrong with these people. I'm not angry at Rob Schneider because he has the intelligence of a dead cat. I watched this film in disbelief. Who would pay money to make this?? This film is so bad that its painful. Most bad films are funny because they are crap. The Animal is just DISGUSTING!!! Watch this film and if you like please for all of man kind kill your self. We don't need you. I want to raise money to get Rob Scheider off all movies. If someone killed Rob Schneider they should be given a Nobel peace prize. "}{"Title":"Cruelty To Animals","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a disaster! Rob Schneider has long overstayed his welcome riding on the coat tails of Adam Sandler. He really should be confined to cameo parts in which he plays an assortment of characters who, in various, but unconvincing accents, screams out  You can do it! at inconsequential points in the plot.In a sick melding of plot borrowings from the 6-milion dollar man, an assortment of werewolf movies and any loser-makes-good movie you can think of, The Animal tells the story of a committed do-gooder, who suffers a terrible accident, only to be resurrected with awesome powers and faced with a challenge which must either be overcome before the end of the movie's running time, or in the sequel, depending on how good the test audience ratings are.This film really should never have been made...if anything it's really more YouTube material. And if you are going to make vehicles for actors, then at least ensure that they are actors worth transporting. The cute chick who lost Survivor and Adam Sandler's buddy is a film student's home movie project we can all do without.Schneider has reprised this role a few times since (think Deuce Bigalow and The Hot Chick) and so I have every reason to believe we haven't seen the last of this recurring character...and that's when a comedy becomes a tragedy. "},{"Title":"It's Rob Schneider...","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a Rob Schneider movie, is there really anything else to say? An hour and a half of extreme stupidity, the humor of which was apparently lost on me. After having seen a few movies like this, I'd personally like to see Rob Schneider thrown to the animals, not made of them. "},{"Title":"Not quite as stupid as you'd expect.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rob Schneider.  Dumb idea.  You figure it out. In fact, I found it to be a little easier to swallow than I'd expected.In brief, Schneider, a would-be cop, gets in a car accident (one of the funnier ones I've seen!) & gets rescued by a mad doctor.  Unbeknownst to Schneider, he gets animal transplants to save his life and is released back into society, unaware of his new body organs. Certain abilities (smell, hearing, etc.) make themselves known, and with these, he is able to get on the police force.  The doctor shows up to stop him from becoming a supercop, as his research might be exposed.  But Schneider is now getting (some) respect from his colleagues, finds a girl, and doesn't want to live the rest of his live in the doctor's animal world.Aside from a couple of 'off-colour' scenes - Schneider trying to hump a mailbox, Schneider trying to hump a goat, Schneider humping himself in the restroom... - there was a legitimate script and decent production in this.Add a few typical comic elements - the crazy old cop captain (Ed Asner), and the psychotic, power-tripping sergeant (John C. McGinley) - both of whom played their roles well, instead of over-the-top as most of these comedies require - and a love interest, played by Colleen Haskell, the all-American cutie from the 1st U.S. 'Survivor' series - and it was actually an entertaining hour & a quarter.Schneider sneaks in a couple of personal perks, as writer & star of the film - Norm MacDonald & Adam Sandler have cameos as townsfolk in the mob out to get him, and his real-life mother plays his neighbour.  "},{"Title":"If you have the IQ of a dead ant then you'll love this film.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading all the other comments to this film makes me wonder if I saw something totally different. The only scene that I found the slightest bit amusing was the one with Rob Schneider and the Orangutan, but then again, that was already funny some 20 years ago when it appeared in the Clint Eastwood film, Every which way, but loose. As good as Saturday night live has been over the years I'm hard pushed to find one film with a former SNL cast member that is any good! This is a total waste of time....... "},{"Title":"If you want to enjoy this film, smoke weed before going into the cinema.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers*THE ANIMAL (2001) Rating 4/10What is the recipe for a great Rob Schneider comedy? Well, according to The Animal's director, it's a bunch of obvious jokes, a predictable ending, a sexy lady and a dorky hero who manages to be loveable and appeal to the hot lady for no reason at all. This director does not really understand a recipe for a great Rob Schneider comedy. This movie is simply a replay of all the bad `dumb-fun' comedies from the past few years with a few more lame jokes added in and a terrible ending. Disappointingly, seeing Schneider jump around like a monkey, swim like a dolphin and leap like a leopard didn't interest me, despite all the similes it can produce. Although The Animal's premise does sound quite intriguing, it does not work with Rob Schneider and all the unfunny gags. As a smart, sophisticated comedy with worthy actors and a lot more clever quotes and comic scenes, this would've worked. Unfortunately, the chemistry sucks, the actors suck, the story sucks and the longevity factor sucks. This is just one big sucky movie that I can't recommend even for teenagers and people who don't look for quality in a film and just want brainless entertainment, you might like it. As any of the above, The Animal just really didn't do it for me. Sorry, Adam, even your `surprise' cameo can't `do it.'    "},{"Title":"Predictable with plenty of crass humour","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again, just like in Deuce Bigalow, Rob Schneider plays the once-goofy guy who gets the girl. Sadly though, this film was just too predictable.  Sure, the concept may have been a good idea, but the humour was just plain bad.  Example How can people still find toilet humour amusing? It is so outdated!  It makes me feel pathetic to say that Adam Sandler's one-minute cameo appearance was a highlight for me (no disrespecting him, mind you). But there was maybe one good thing that came out of this.  Colleen Haskell did surprisingly pretty well for her first major role.  Good for her...Overall, this movie is probably more for the hardcore Rob Schneider/dirty humour/don't-want-to-think-but-just-want-to-visually-osmosise fans. "},{"Title":"The only reason to see it... Colleen Haskell!!!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was pretty much what I expected it to be. I waited patiently counting down the days to see Colleen Haskell's movie debut. I went to see it the first day around 700 P.M. I was disappointed in the childish, potty humor that this film had to offer. But I went along with it because I knew that this was one of those movies that's directed to much on being funny, and not enough on a plot. (Which probably would've stunk anyways.) If I was rating Colleen on her acting in this movie, it would've been good until probably around 50 minutes into the movie. The commercials are manipulative, they make Colleen out to look sweet and innocent. But they twist her character up big time. But, then again, it's not supposed to be taken seriously. I don't think they  should've given Colleen a role in a movie that was completely pointless for just starting out. Colleen I give an A+++. The movie and it's so called plot, F---. "},{"Title":"Put the Animal to sleep","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being employed by a major movie theatre company, I know that most film companies simply send their movie trailers (those things you have to watch for god knows how long till the movie starts) to the theaters to be placed on films free of charge. For those of you that didn't know, Sony did something very weird with this film. They paid theater chains cold hard cash to show the trailer for this movie. When I heard this I said `wow that's weird.' I have since seen the movie and I know why. THIS MOVIE SUCKS!!!!!!!!! There is no cinematic quality, no comedic elements whatsoever in this movie. Sony banked on the fact that by having Rob Schneider act ignorant for hour and a half, they could get the crowds busting their sides with laughter... yeah... right..DIDN'T HAPPEN! I compare watching this film to watching a bad comedian do a bad comedy set. He tells bad joke after bad joke and never gets a laugh. He gets nervous and figures he will pull out some off color jokes and even though they're bit of a shock they're still not funny. You get animal antic after antic and not one of them is funny at all. The only good parts of this film are the parts when Marvin is being beaten, kicked, and chased by a mob.A movie can't be bad in the acting department unless it's leads are bad. Well guess what people, Rob Schneider is bad and is later joined by Norm Mc Donald, and Adam Sandler, the other members of the `I'm not funny brat on crack pack' They should have invited Tom Green to finished the group off. Colleen Haskell also played a game of suck and blow. If you remember, she was one of the contestants on Survivor. She was voted off the Survivor Island and she should have been voted off `The Animal' set. She couldn't sell the lip balm in her commercial and she doesn't sell this part either. I thought John C Mc Ginley was good as the obnoxious sergeant hell bent on being the best. Guy Torry's constant `It's because I'm black ` was funny, but you can only take so much of that before it gets boring.I hated hated hated this movie. If you have the need to see animals, please wait till `Dr. Doolittle 2 comes out, or watch The Crocodile Hunter on TV, or wait for Tim Burton's `The Planet of the Apes'     "},{"Title":"Saturday Night Live meets Survivor is this the end of the world?","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I read that producers had cast a game show contestant in this movie--in a starring role no less-- I should have been forewarned. Still, I find Rob Schneider to be a funny manic presence, and I enjoyed Deuce Bigelowe, so I took a chance on this one.Again there were funny moments but not enough to fill 90 minutes. I'm just grateful it wasn't 2 hours! Rob Schneider is more than a sketch artist like the chronically unfunny Adam Sandler, he has a sympathetic quality which can make him a bona fide actor. He should avoid the Sandler influence in the future.As for Colleen Haskell, I was not a fan of Survivor  so I was not acquainted with her alleged charms, but if her squinty-eyed, mousy, thoroughly uncharismatic presence is arousing passions in  American males, perhaps there is something in the water supply.  I hear that she was signed by a top agent in Hollywood--which  should tell you all you need to know about Hollywood but not about acting. I hope Colleen has enough pride to realize that this was stunt casting at its best(or worst) and find a real job before her 15 months of fame run out. Cute isn't enough to make a movie career, talent and a unique presence are, and she does not have it. "},{"Title":"Average at best","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is a rule that all SNL characters must obey, that says no movie made by an SNL character can be as funny as SNL.  The Animal obeys.Lots of beastiality jokes.  This movie is exactly what I expected... you could see all the jokes coming.  There were many times when I could predict the next one coming.Highlight of the movie  That girl in the tight white outfit walking down the street.  Who is that?  I have looked all over for her, but she is uncredited at all the sites.  If anyone knows, please email me.I go very easy on movies reviews.  I am usually easily impressed.  Save your money, it will be out on video in a couple weeks. "}{"Title":"the microphone","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one was about what I expected from the previews. There were a lot  of holes in the plot, and I dislike bestiality jokes; but I was in the mood to laugh, and I did. If you liked the trailers, and you liked Deuce Bigalow, you'll be fine with this one. I have to comment on the microphone showing at the top of the screen starting about an hour into it. I found myself (with others in the audience)  watching for the mike to dip down into the screen... People would groan and point when it showed again. Maybe our watching the mike was a sign that the movie itself wasn't exactly riveting?  Didn't they catch that in the dailies? Or was it left in so we would have something to discuss after. "},{"Title":"How to Drive a Formula Straight to the Ground","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ain't it hilarious when an average schmo leading a pathetic life suddenly has something outrageously magical happen to him, turning his life upside down and causing him to learn a few valuable lessons along the way? That formula never gets old, does it? It's such a sure fire way to make a classic film! Just look at major hits like Liar Liar and Big!... This must have been Rob Schneider's line of thinking when he made semi-successful Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo and followed it with The Animal. Since I've already traced the plot through sarcasm, allow me to color it in more Schneider plays a loser cop who's suddenly involved in a tragic accident but is saved through surgery... by a loopy veterinarian who loads him up with animal parts, causing him to whinny like a horse at inappropriate times, run like a cheetah, etc. This movie is slightly more likable than other Schneider-starring flicks (such as another lame same-plot follow-up The Hot Chick), but it almost feels like they want audiences to hate it by casting a reality TV star as the romantic lead (Colleen Haskell from Survivor) and inserting a cameo by Norm MacDonald. My favorite scene... just does not exist. Sorry - nothing memorably good except the production value. I just want to end this review by saying that slight references to other movies in a movie can be okay, but when it comes to lines being delivered the exact same way (You can DO it!), there's a word for that - milking. Actually, here's another word - cheap. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Marvin(Rob Schneider)does not have the ingredients to be a cop which is his lifelong dream. But his luck changes when he has a car crush(a very bad one)and is found by a doctor. The doctor has to use animal organs to rebuild him. After this moment, he starts to have wild behaviours unconsciously and becomes a best cop one could ever be. By the time, he realises the changes and his animal instincts starts to take over his human side. In the mean time, he finds a lovely girl and try to be a perfect gentleman that means he has to control himself and behave civilised. I am not a big fun of Rob Schneider. In fact, this is the his first film I have seen. However, I can easily say that he is the best person to play the loser.(See his part in Ally Mcbeal, quite funny actually).There are some good parts in the movie such as his flirting with the goat. In such movies, the biggest problem is that the script is seems to make the viewer feel less intelligent. I am sure this movie is okay to watch as long as it is not taken too seriously. But very sad to see such films doing very good in the box office. The Animal is not the worst film I have seen to date but fails to get more than *. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't really like this movie that much at all. It wasn't really funny and in some cases it was just downright stupid. Rob Schneider is definitely one enormously talented individual and while his acting was fine in this, it just seemed like a real waste for him to star in. I mean there were some parts that were okay and somewhat humorous in a cute kind of way but that's about it. The only thing that actually caught my attention during this whole ordeal of over the top jokes was that there were some very good looking females present and I'm not one to watch a movie solely because of that but in this case it was the only nook where even the slightest case of redemption could be found. All in all it was a couple notches below an average movie!Final QueryTheaters So glad I didn't squander too much money on this.DVD Purchase Ummm, let me think....no!Rental If you have a prehistoric sense of humor then why not.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hated this movie so much I remember it vividly. It is not even funny. Any movie that relies on unfunny sex jokes and racism humor does not deserve the money it costs to make it. In the first half hour, Rob Schneider drinks a carton of rancid milk. All I could think was he deserves it, for making such a bad movie. Don't waste your time or money on this one.  "},{"Title":"Colleen Haskell, very cute. That's about it.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hate to pile on here, but I did not get one single solitary chuckle from this film. It had a premise that might have gone somewhere. And I used to enjoy Rob Schneider on his TV show with Justine Bateman. But this was complete snoozeville. The only redeeming feature ended up being Colleen Haskell, who I had never heard of. (I never saw any of the Survivor stuff on TV) She is just sooo cute. She was absolutely all that kept me from turning this off. Hope to see more of her in the future. I'll be taping over this one. Grade D "},{"Title":"A Disaster Story And Cast","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw an interview with Rob Schneider (who plays the lead character, Marvin Mange, in this film.) He said in it that he wanted to emphasize physical comedy here so much that even if you had the volume turned off you'd be laughing at this movie. Obviously that must be the secret. I had the volume turned up. I was actually listening to this thing and thought it was a disaster, and completely unfunny - a major disappointment after Schneider's hilarious performance in Deuce Bigalow, Male Gigolo.The story is stupid Mange is a major loser who dreams of being a cop who gets filled with a bunch of animal transplants after a car accident by a mad scientist type appropriately named Dr. Wilder (Michael Caton), and as a result starts to lose control of his animal instincts. This makes him a supercop. He can sniff out drugs hidden in body cavities and outrun horses. Of course, he also has a nasty habit of eating people's cows and trying to seduce their goats, but surely that's a small price to pay? It just didn't do anything for me. The cast left much to be desired. Is there a more irritating actor in all of Hollywood than John McGinley? Here, he plays Sgt. Sisk, Mange's commander on the police force, as a repugnantly cartoonish character (much the same as his doctor character in the inexplicably popular TV series Scrubs.) I was anxious to get a look at Colleen Haskell's first serious acting job (can anything in this movie be called serious?) She, of course, gained her fame as a contestant on the first Survivor and she proves here what we knew from that she's cute as a button. What she doesn't prove here is that she has any discernible talent as an actress. And what's with Ed Asner as Police Chief Wilson. I mean, how old is this guy now? He's the size of some of the cows Mange tried to eat, and he seemed out of breath the whole way through. I'm surprised he made it through the filming. There's a brief cameo at the end by Adam Sandler (who also served as Executive Producer of this.)Anyway, I chuckled twice Mange playing with his squeaky toys in the police car, and the scene Schneider has with Haskell and the orangutan - the orangutan has more acting talent! So, for two chuckles - 2/10. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very bad movie. I laughed once or twice, and the storyline sucks! There is maybe one funny joke, it is stupid and it is boring. Through the whole short movie, I was falling asleep and wondering when it was going to end.No one acts human, and everyone acts stupid and ridiculous. Rob Schneider acting like an animal isn't something I would pay to see. It looked funny, but the bottom line DON'T WASTE YOU'RE PRECIOUS TIME ON SUCH A RIDICULOUS AND STUPID MOVIE.I was wondering when it was going to end, even though it is a short movie. In the beginning we thought it would get better; but it gets worse. Stupid, all the way to the end. I walked out of the theater, and I would remember that movie as extremely bad forever.The writer and co-producer of this film is a Simpsons TV writer, but this is nothing like The Simpsons (this movie sucks!!!) "},{"Title":"One note DULL","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  NOTHING in this movie is funny.  I thought the premise, giving a human the libido of a randy ram, was interesting and should provide for some laughs.  WRONG!  There is simply nothing funny about the movie.  For example, the main character making a pass at a goat in heat in the middle of a farmer's yard is not funny, it borders on obscenity.  They are toying around with bestiality in this film on one level, and it just aint funny.We all know that dogs will eat anything, anywhere, anytime.  The main character doing this with everything, everywhere, everytime is also not funny.  It becomes a cliche.Rob Schneider is, I guess, acceptable in the role.  By this, I mean that he's not a bad actor, but with rotten material it's difficult to comment on quality.  However, Coleen Haskell, the other half of the HUMAN-romantic leads (does one count the number of animals that the main character has interest in as romantic leads too?), seems embarrassed by the whole thing, as well she should be.  She seems to be acting in some kind of vacuum, detached from all the other actors in the movie. See this film only if you wish to be bored by tasteless, dull, repetitive material. "},{"Title":"you gotta be kiddin' me...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting a movie similar to Deuce Bigalow, which I enjoyed.  However, this dud seemed to last forever.  It's one of those flicks which enjoys the sad placement of PG-13 while not being kid appropriate.  The jokes aren't just low-brow or f**t jokes, they're crude, lewd, and many acts cross the boundaries to not only bad taste but beyond legal and moral decency.  Many scenes appear to have been chopped to get the PG-13 rating...too bad...it might have made a bigger splash as an R-rated film if the funny was left in.  (Overstatement?  Probably.) I do not recommend this movie.  It is a full-on waste of time...and I'm a movie lover and ready to give just about anything a shot.  At 45 minutes in, the movie felt like it should be winding down...and boy were we ready for it to.  The ending is quaint but doesn't salvage the rest of this quagmire/tourist trap of a rental. 1/2 star  (glad I saw it as a freebie...would have been sickened to pay hard-earned greenbacks for this tripe) "}{"Title":"SNL character litmus test","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Redundant, but again the case.  If you enjoy the former SNL comedian and his antics (in this case, Schneider), then you should go.  Basic comedy&#133;.man's life is saved by having various animal organs transplanted into him. Unfortunately, he takes on each animal's characteristics.  Former Survivor Colleen looks pretty good here, now that she doesn't have open sores on her legs, and a little makeup on her face! D  "},{"Title":"Let's put this in historical context...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember back in the early 80's when music started getting so very bad?It was largely because radios were being given play lists by the recordcompanies in order to sell records.  Groups like The Clash were left offthose lists, because they were truly independent and not a little scaryto corporate America. Well, let's look at film making today. PearlHarbor opens in 4,000 theatres. Where is our choice? We are eatingwhat's fed us, and it's bloody awful. Sure, McDonalds is the mostpopular restaurant in the world, but does it have any NUTRITION?!? Ithink not. Which brings me to the Animal. Clearly made by committee,featuring; 1. A Former Saturday Night Live star. 2. A New Cultural Icon(the girl from survivor) and 3. a High Concept (or rather, a LOWconcept). Mix them all together and you have a hit! Someday, though, weaudiences are going to rebel and actually stop seeing this drivel, and Ihope it happens soon. Perhaps with Tivo or digital screens where WE getto choose what movie to watch, we'll be able to leave you small thinkingfilm committees in the dust. Your time is gonna come! But the most heartwarming thing I can say about The Animal is this; I forgot about it tenminutes after seeing it- those of you who made it will have to live withit your WHOLE LIVES.  "},{"Title":"Animal dung","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is crap!Rob Schneider becomes an animal though I forget why.  All I recall was how much is sucked.  I saw the trailer for The Animal and it showed 2 real funny scenes, so I though I'd catch the film  -BIG MISTAKE!The 2 jokes from the trailer were ruined in the film because each scene had an extra 30 seconds of crap added between the joke build up and the punchline which made it unfunny, which is a pretty difficult thing to do!Colleen Haskell from some US reality tv show appears as Rob Schneider's love interest, but there is one problem -she has no eyes!  Every scene she is in she smiles sweetly but her eyes are invisible, like the jokes.Rob Schneider is funny for people who think unfunny people are funny (ie stupid people).Dude!  I just remembered the PLOT!  It is about how Rob wants to be a policeman or something and he can't because he is too stupid.  I still can't remember why he becomes an 'Animal' though. He was probably bitten on the ass by a monkey or something.Anyway, the towns folk (including Adam Sandler) start running around some woodland to find a bear or something (I haven't the slightest idea what happens between Rob wanting to become a cop and the towns folk hunting for a bear, or why they are hunting for a bear, but anyways) and them some various crap happens which I don't remember, but I'm sure it is pretty forgettable.Basically this film has 1 funny scene (about a guy who puts his car keys up his butt -WAIT, that isn't funny anymore, it's just stupid!), and the rest is kitty litter.Avoid this film at all costs! "},{"Title":"daft, tolerable comedy","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSThere seems to be an ongoing criticism of Hollywood that if a film stars Rob Schneider, it automatically should be spat at and condemned as useless. With dodgy films like The Hot Chick (2002), Schneider is always insulted and faced with claims that he's only famous for being Adam Sandler's friend. With The Animal however, he proves that he's not quite that awful and can provide one or two funny laughs.Marvin Mange (Schneider) is a useless cop. After an accident however, Mange finds himself rebuilt using animal parts and finding it difficult to control his wild part.The Animal is not a superb film. It's a weak, dumb, pointless film, BUT it has the redeeming feature in that it's got some funny moments.Schneider, as the human animal hybrid is great in his daft, useless role. In effect, his character in this film is simply Duece Bigalo (1999) except with animal powers. Basically, Schneider is your typical comedian who thinks he can be a decent actor but ultimately is irrelevant. He's best as that cameo Mexican role in all Adam Sandler films (a cameo copied by Sandler himself in this film) and it's in that role which he should really stick.So, for all it's dumb, insulting moments, like all of Schneider's films, The Animal satisfy's one key criteria, basically it makes us laugh.At times there are jokes which make us fall on the floor in hysterics, but truthfully they are fair too inconsistent.To summarise, The Animal is VERY dumb. It's stupid, and there are definitely better ways to spend your time (if you MUST see a Schneider film, your better off with Deuce Bigalow from 1999), but for all the criticism there are still some great jokes to see. The Animal is similar to that Budweiser advert with the guy, his girlfriend and her big tshirt. Basically there are so many flaws with the film, but at the same time as hating it, you find yourself wanting to like it and laughing at dumb moments. Like all of Schneider's work, it's a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Just barely watchable, mainly thanks to John C. McGinley's presence in the film and Colleen Haskell's beauty","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plenty of crude humor and more or less lucky gags, this film is primarily bad due to the fact that we've seen it all before. The crude humor, the half-cooked plot, the somewhat geeky and loser-like main character. Normally, we see this in Adam Sandler's movies, but, probably due to them often working together, Rob Schneider is now trying to copy the formula of his movies, and the result is about as bad as most of Sandler's films. Schneider has no real charisma, and we hardly care about him, but he does have a little(and I *do* mean a little) comedic talent, and a few of the gags and jokes do work; just too few. The plot is lame and far-fetched, and I'm almost certain it's not very original(though I haven't seen any other movies with the same plot, admittedly). The pace is decent enough, but considering that it's not even an hour and a half long, it couldn't be that slow anyway. The acting is not particularly good, and the characters are all stereotypes. What makes this movie possible to sit through and, gosh, almost enjoyable enough to justify sitting through the 84-85 minutes of it, are John C. McGinley and Colleen Haskell. McGinley is just so damn entertaining, and after watching Scrubs for a while, and enjoying his performance on that show, it's nice to see him in a role that is, well, exactly the same, I guess. He can almost always make a so-so movie enjoyable for me. As for Haskell(who apparently got a part in this primarily because she was in Survivor, if I understand correctly), she's just so damn cute that it's hard not to be attracted to her. She lights up every frame that she's in. McGinley also makes each second he's on-screen more enjoyable, unfortunately, he has far too little screen-time. What more is there to say; the humor consists of either crude jokes, gags or slapstick. Nothing truly memorable about this film, but decent if you've got nothing better to do and you're a fan of one or more of the actors involved. I recommend this to fans of Adam Sandler-type films, and not really anyone else. It's decent at best. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Who is Townie or Nazo?","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who is Townie or Nazo?  If you look at many of Rob Schneider and Adam Sandler's movies their character names are usually Townie or Nazo.  I was just wondering if someone could give me some insight.  Thanks "},{"Title":"Not nearly as funny as it should be","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ** Starring Rob Schneider and Colleen Haskell.A nerdy man finds himself being picked on by numerous people.  Hell, even an old lady picks on him.  After a car crash, a doctor gives him various organs of different animals.  He inherits the traits of the animals.  He then finds himself having troublesome times and heroic times with his sixth sense.This movie could have been great.  It screws itself over by having some nice prepared jokes, then completing them terribly.I can't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Even my cat hated this!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How NOT to make a successful comedy!Intended as some sort of crack-up laugh fest, presumably a follow-up of sorts to DEUCE BIGALOW, this tired and creaky old vehicle just can't even get into gear. Sandler hanger-on Schneider looks like he knows he has a turkey on his hands for the entire film - he's right!The premise, little more than a one-joke concept, has Schneider as  rookie cop Mervyn Mange who following an insane car crash, becomes the recipient of various animal parts - the complete sniffer dog.  So far so good?  nup, its a dumb-ass flick already!As Schneider becomes the complete animal the film becomes the complete loser,  saved from ultimate desolation only by the onset of the final credits. Aussie pal of Schneider's... THE CASTLE's Michael Caton virtually assures himself of no further international film offers as goofball scientist Dr Wilder who performs Schneider's multi-beast transplant!Vaguely irritating for its entire running time and not within a country mile of DEUCE BIGALOW - itself, anything but classic comedy! "},{"Title":"Juvenile","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rob Schneider stoops to conquer. And fails. My youngest more or less loved this movie, and it was clearly aimed at a juvenile audience. So I will give it that. But scenes of Schneider rummaging through garbage with his head and sexing up a goat are a bit more than I can bear. The movie starts off like a lame POLICE ACADEMY sequel and goes downhill from there. Looks like he was aiming at a Jim Carrey/Tom Green audience. Unfortunately for him, he is not Carrey or Green. He's not even Adam Sandler, who apparently produced this thing.  "},{"Title":"Rob Schnieder should have left this one alone.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In The Animal, Schneider plays Marvin Mange, a struggling police officer hopeful with aspirations of actually joining the force. While in route to the scene of a robbery, Marvin gets into a tragic car accident, leaving his unconscious body mangled beyond belief. Eight days later, he wakes up with superhuman abilities. Immediately after the wreck, a mad scientist took Marvin back to the lab and replaced the crushed and damaged organs with those of various animals. As a result, Marvin can run faster than most cars, jump ten feet into the air, hear children drowning from several yards away, sniff out illegal narcotics, and perform many other amazing animal feats. These give Marvin a distinct physical advantage which land him a spot on the police force. However, the powers do come with some drawbacks. He has an uncontrollable sex drive, constant hunger, and a tendency to perform some embarrassing animal acts in public, such as chasing cats and licking his genitals. In the midst of this chaos, Marvin is also attempting to win the affections of Rianna (Colleen from television's Survivor), an nature activist and animal shelter owner. By looking at the unbelievably ridiculous and immature storyline, one might assume that The Animal is totally lacking in laughs. This is not true. I am almost ashamed to admit that this film managed to make me snicker a couple times, which is more than I can say about Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo and Adam Sandler's most recent movies combined. I should note, however, that two of the funniest moments were not even delivered by Schneider. Rather, Sandler himself, as well as Saturday Night Live alum Norm Macdonald, make show-stealing cameo appearances. Their presence, along with a few well placed lines sprinkled about the script, keep The Animal from falling into the same lifeless formula we've seen before. Unfortunately for Rob Schneider, a few successful jokes do not make a movie worth seeing. Such is the case with The Animal, which is too caught up with the same usual adolescent toilet humor and sex jokes to focus on connecting with the audience. This is definitely a movie with potential, as shown by those random moments of comedy. But, like many films within this popular genre, the talent gets wasted on childish slapstick. The most I can do is commend Schneider and Sandler for giving a valiant effort this time out. Naturally, the pair still made a bad movie, with only a handful of scattered laughs, none of which were extremely solid, but at least they came closer to hitting the nail on the head. Plus, the story needs some serious work, especially toward the end. Several plot points are thrown around, but never completed. The finale does not make a lot of sense. All in all, the narrative is a mess. Nevertheless, The Animal is not quite as bad as one might expect. It certainly isn't enjoyable though.  "}{"Title":"One or two laughs but otherwise a sh*t load of stupidity and unimaginative misfires","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Marvin Mange is the admin support in charge of the evidence room for his local police force, but his real aim is to one day make it onto the force proper. His one obstacle is, well, an obstacle on the police obstacle course that he cannot get over. Constantly excluded and mocked, Marvin finds himself minding the store while all the officers head off for a baseball game and leaps into action when a robbery in progress is reported. Sadly Marvin crashes his car on a remote road and is only saved by a mysterious doctor that he can only half remember. Things get weird when he discovers a load of new abilities he has &#150; like sniffing drugs on people, running at the speed of a horse, jumping 10 feet in the air and so on.I wrote a lot of words in my plot summary so let me make sure you understand what this film is about &#150; a man get animal parts put in him and acts like animals. That's it. Forget the vague plot or the stupid romance, this is only about a load of silly jokes about Marvin acting like a horse, a dog, a monkey, a bird and so on. Once or twice it is funny enough to make me laugh (the monkey fight being the only moment I laughed out loud) while most of it is just too lame to be funny &#150; with fart jokes, crude sexual gags and lots of animals mugging. It is as uninspiring as old toast and I found it almost as hard to watch as Medusa. The routines are so basic and bland that it is hard to really care or get into it &#150; I usually get a few laughs from these silly sort of things but this was about as bad as I have seen. Some of it is at least off the wall to the point where it took me by surprise and drew a vague giggle but that wasn't very often.Schneider is his usual self but doesn't come across as he is trying that hard &#150; his performance matches the uninspiring tone of the film. Haskell has a nice back but that's about it &#150; she is too bland to be engaging or funny. McGinley is great in other things but is given the short shaft here with nothing to do. Ed Asner is in it sort of but again doesn't make an impression. No, the film rests squarely on Schneider and, with this material, he is even more hampered and gormless than he usually is.Predictable, lame, stupid, silly and totally uninspiring. The one or two laughs that I got from it did not make up for the sheer lack of humour in the rest of the film. The gags are as stupid as the plot and this is definitely a film that fans of comedy would do well to avoid. "},{"Title":"If you are looking for something original... don't bother","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Guy is a loser. Can't get girls, needs to build up, is picked on by stronger more successful guys, etc. Seen it, saw it, moved on. I'd have to say that Rob needs to move past the Adam Sandler part of his life. And get out of the Adam Sandler plots. There are two funny parts in the whole movie. I couldn't even finish the last 5 minutes. I was getting bored. The Animal is an alright film. I do usually enjoy Adam Sandler films that have the same plot. But this was trying too hard to impress. The jokes are very old. So, trust me. This is not a film that most people could really get into. But some did, so I'll be nice.3/10 "}]