[{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film at the European Union Film Festival at the American Film Institute. It is a brilliant film with a deeply moving story line. The acting is uniformly excellent. Dora van der Groen is so convincing in her role, I could almost believe that she truly is retarded. Ann Petersen as Paulette does a brilliant job as a deeply conflicted sister who is suddenly faced with a decision about what is important in life. The use of music in the film to emphasize the beautiful but limited world in which Pauline lives is very effective. I went with a small group of friends and everyone agreed that the film was sweet and beautiful. Highly Recommended. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A winning film","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a subtle charmer. The acting is wonderful and worth watching several times, especially the character of Pauline and how she interacts with all the other characters of the film. Watch her eyes. An amazing portrayal. While the plot may seem simplistic to some viewers, it is not without its own form of dramatic tension and compelling comedy. The colors of the sets are interesting in conjunction with the character development. The music chosen for each scene is interesting and idiosyncratic. I was reminded of the Norwegian film Elling, as well as some elements of the Canadian film Strangers in Good Company. All these films have a real breath of fresh air that is palpable. "},{"Title":"exceptional acting - touching film","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this a touching, funny and involving film. Dora van der Groen's portrayal of the child-like 66 year old Pauline was remarkable in that she was never 'acting' and it was hard to believe that she was an actor playing a disabled woman and not a disabled woman acting. (She was my choice for best female actor in the European film awards.) The rest of the cast was excellent too and though this is a 'small' film, it covers the subject better than any of the more famous Hollywood pictures. Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"My First Time, Ever.","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the first film that I have ever seen that was Belgium, my first time so to speak was really very good! From the very beginning I knew that these actresses must be very well known and grand dames of the film business in Belgium. From the very start of the film to the end I was completely engrossed. I liked that the character of Pauline was not completely mentally challenged. Often times when films are made of handicap individuals they make them complete idiots and dependent on their caretakers. I liked that Paulette's character came to see the reality of her need for Pauline to be in her life. I thought that the actress who played Pauline did an excellent job, very creditable. "},{"Title":"Sister Act","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's almost inevitable that some smart-ass is going to dismiss this as Rain Man with tits and equally inevitably the remainder of his/her comment can safely be ignored on the grounds that he/she knows as much about film, life, the human condition as George Doublya knows about nuclear physics. In a remarkably short space of time, some 75 minutes in the DVD version, director Lieven Debrauwer sets the scene, a small town in Belgium, and the back story of four sixty-something sisters, Martha (Julienne De Bruyn) who has taken it upon herself to provide both a home and tlc for Pauline (Dora van der Groen) who is described as a 66 year old child given that she is retarded; a third sister Cecile (Rosemarie Bergmans) has long since quit the small town for Brussells where she lives with her latest boyfriend whilst the fourth, Paulette (Ann Petersen) runs a ladie's haberdashery in the town. Whenever she is sent by Martha to the local butchers Pauline is unable to refrain from calling in to Paulette's shop and invariably embarrassing her. Barely has this been established than Martha dies leaving the problem of what to do with Pauline. Clearly a student of human nature or maybe just knowing her sisters too well Martha leaves a will that divides her home and money equally between Cecile and Paulette with the proviso they look after Pauline, alternatively they can institutionalize Pauline in which case she, Pauline, gets everything. We could have the makings of a mini King Lear here with Pauline being ejected from each cruel sister in turn but instead we get a rich, warm, comedy drama about love and families. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"a very sweet film","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw previews for this film and it caught my eye, so I rented the DVD. It was extremely well acted, especially by Dora van der Groen as Pauline. It had funny moments, and also true-to-life moments. It wasn't earth shattering, but it was very touching. I also enjoyed the director's commentary on the DVD. He talked about the decisions made, especially the use of color, and how long it took to get the film made - 4 years! It really was a labor of love. If you need heart-wrenching drama or action, this isn't the film for you, but if you appreciate good acting and scenes that touch your heart, I highly recommend this one! "},{"Title":"Communication barriers","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pauline & Paulette is a small Belgian movie about the problems arising when the caretaker sister of the retarded Pauline dies and the other two sisters have to take over because otherwise they will lose their part of the legacy. Pauline (convincingly portrayed by Dora van der Groen) has a preference for flowers (both real and photographed) and bright colors. One of the two sisters (Paulette) establishes a particularly strong bond with her and that story is the main focus of the movie.We have one of the sisters Cécile living (but not married) with a French-speaking man in Brussels. The fact that he is unable to connect and communicate to Pauline is a small reference to the existing language barrier in Belgium, as Pauline of course has her own unique language. With the love of Viennese operetta by Paulette we have the play-in-the-play; first Pauline breaks into that performance, later there's a farewell scene in the operetta.The production design is well done with red and reddish colors for the places where Pauline and Paulette meet like the shop of Paulette for example.There is not an arc in the script for a feature-length movie and it clocks in at a meager 78 minutes. The direction is not that interesting so we end up with a movie that's never dull, but never compelling either. But as many have noted it has its heart at the right place and is well suited for all age groups, although it may appeal especially to the not-too-young. "},{"Title":"Sweet film about life's hard decisions","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film many people will probably be able to relate to. Pauline finds herself without a caretaker after her sister Martha dies. Now it's up to her other two sisters to either provide her with the care she needs or institutionalize  her. Also, there will be monetary consequences for whatever decision they make. This movie addresses its subject matter very well, exposing the threat of loneliness and need for self-denial which will surely grip the life of anyone who takes in a family member who will be totally dependent on them, and mentally handicapped. The two sisters whose lives are thrown into a state of upheaval prove they are not as ill-intentioned as it first seems, and you will most likely come to sympathize with them. The acting is excellent all around.***Possible spoiler follows*** The only thing that I didn't like much was the open-ended conclusion. I believe the production team could have made this movie a bit longer than its eighty minutes and left the viewer much more satisfied. Perhaps, though, this was done purposely to make one think of what one would do in a similar situation.I recommend this movie. An extra bonus are the scenes in which flowers abound, and Paulette's quaint shop were a good part of the film takes place.  "},{"Title":"Pauline & Paulette","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie last night and was moved to tears. I actually sat there and cried. I was so moved at what a wonderful actress Dora van Der Groen is. I happened to be going through the channels and found this movie on the Independent Film Channel. I was disappointed to find that it is not going to be on again in the near future, as I would like to see it again. I would definitely give this movie a 10! All of the acting was superb. I normally do not stop and watch sub-titled movies, but this one caught my eye for whatever reason. I thought the ending was very sweet also. I also sat there and thought how lonely Paulette seemed at the end while sitting at the ocean, and how Pauline seemed to make friends easier and didn't seem to be nearly as alone as her sister. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry, it'll change your life.","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an amazing film by Lieven Debrauwer. Whereas his earlier films weren't that great -such as the short movie Dichten, wat is dichten dan...?- this is a piece of art.Debrauwer doesn't seem to be interested in being groundbreaking. Movies like this have been done before, it doesn't provide us with anything new. (E.g. Rainman or What's eating Gilbert Grape) It just tells us a simple but very intimate story.Both of the protagonists' roles, played by Dora van der Groen and the now deceased Ann Petersen, are impressive. Van der Groen comes across very natural when portraying the honest behaviour and joy that most 'old children' seem to have. Petersen's acting is unbelievable as well. She portrays the prototypical older Flemish lady perfectly. A cold harsh lady who feels her mildly retarded sister is a burden that is complicating her life. A life that, especially at her age, should have been a simple one.Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Fantastic Potrait of Sisters with Conflicting Lifestyles","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie in a local theater.  This was a deeply moving story about sisterhood and how our siblings affect us more than we know. Dora van der Groen did an outstanding job portraying a mentally challeneged elder woman coping with the death of one sister and the love of the other two.  Ann Peterson also showed an outstanding performance. "},{"Title":"Touching & for people with a big heart...","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie now for a third time, it is a extremely touching movie and the subject really strikes your heart, simple and very..................very good...., wish there were more movies like this. Makes you think about important matters in life...Summery Pauline is a person with cognitive disability, she has a simple and rather happy life with her older sister Martha, who takes care of her since their parents died. It's an assistive and very asymmetrical relation, Pauline is considered as a child, despite her age of 66. Suddenly Martha dies and the two younger sisters have to think of how to face with the new situation. The easy solution, to send Pauline to an institute, becomes impractical because the clause of Martha's last will, her fortune will be divided in three equal parts only if one of the sisters will take care of Pauline. Pauline loves immensely her sister Paulette, her shop and all the bright colored stuff in it. Paulette has rude manners, she has her own life, the shop, the Operetta, but in her straight words and gestures in some way promotes the autonomy of the sister. You have to be able! The other sister has a relation with a very elegant man, too much elegant, there isn't space for Pauline in their narrow, suffocating relation. The time with Pauline has its difficulties, hence, and perhaps it's better to give up the heritage, the two sisters think at last. But the new situation for Paulette, who closes her shop, brings to new decisions, to new lives... - Lieven Debrauwer "},{"Title":"Excellent drama with comic relief","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent. If you truly like dramas that get you in the heart with that ever so subtle hint of comedy then this film is definitely for you. BUT you will have to read subtitles if you choose to view this particular movie. Although I found it worth the effort some may not. While Paulette shows 'tough love' and Pauline is just sweet and really gets into that sensitive place inside you. this film shows an excellent lesson along with an entertaining plot. Plus this film is P.G. so it is excellent for families. It is for mild language. I counted 3 not bad at all words in total. So my advice is to see this movie. Take your kids. Take Grandma. Get out the popcorn! An excellent movie overall.  "},{"Title":"The sweetest movie ever...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in the cinema and recently at home for the second time and I find it the sweetest movie ever made. Dora Van der Groen plays an excellent role as the handicapped Pauline. The story is very realistic and shows the bitter truth of life. Love the people who appreciate and love you back.... This is one movie to see!!! "},{"Title":"Better than i thought it would be","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie based on that it had won some awards at festivals.  I did not know what to expect.  I was pleasantly surprised.  The acting was good.  It did not make a significant statement, but that is what I liked about it.   It was quaint, touching... a good film. "},{"Title":"A typical Belgian film","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never expected much of this film although it was a Belgian picture and it had gained some reasonable success in (and even outside) Belgium.  When I went to see it, I got what I thought I would get.Pauline en Paulette is not a bad movie, but it has its flaws.  First of all, the film doesn't provide any fresh material.  It's a mix of some of the better 'retarded-movies' Hollywood has given us throughout the years Rain man, Awakenings and What's eating Gilbert Grape.  Especially the Leonardo DiCaprio film has some serious similarities with this one here. In both films, the autistic person is not always welcome and does not always get the required attention and caring.  So, the story had been used before.The acting was pretty good and the classical music within the film was a nice and fresh change.  I respect this film for it is a Belgian one (and Belgian films are always low-budget), but it simply didn't get to me.  I watched it, but I never felt anything.  I couldn't care less about the characters.  The fact that three old women take the lead might have something to do with it, but I think it's mainly because the whole film is so monotonous.  And the few jokes can't help refreshing the gloomy script. Still, I stayed seated and underwent the film.Not bad for a debut, but with a more original storyline and more colorful characters, this film might have been truly worth-watching. "}]