[{"Title":"Great movie, but you either love it or are confused by it","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I myself worked in one of the ubiquitous .com's in the late 90's and this movie is frightening realistic, from the long hours and technical glitches right down to the embarrassingly lame cheers.I read on the web the filmmakers set out to document their friends impending wealth and business fortune with this documentary, but what they got was the complete opposite. I think that speaks volumes for expectations during this era.I feel like some of the other IMDb reviews are off the mark. Yes, the movie is sometimes hard to follow. But it was shot in the Cinéma-vérité genre and that is to be expected. It is an uncompromising real life look, and it is up to the viewer to decipher; sometimes this works sometimes not. Some previous reviews wondered how the company folded. Honestly its a movie about an internet company, why do you think it failed? Having said this, I think more could have been shown of why Tom got the axe and the love relationships of Kaliel could have been better developed.According to the DVD the producers cut some realistic (and boringly technical) scenes to focus more on the relationship between Tom and Kaleil. This is where they succeeded. They are trying to tell the story of the company downfall through the interplay of these two characters. It is fascinating because it is real. The most compelling part is the coorelation between their relationship eroding as does the company. Viewed from that point of view this movie is really not a documentary. Nevertheless it is entertaining and gripping. What amazed me was the unfettered greed and their enormous hubris which prevented them from acknowledge their role in this sinking ship. "},{"Title":"On-Line train wreck.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Those who are commenting on the mediocrity of the craftmanship of this movie are missing the point.  The rise and fall of the dot-coms have become a meaningful part of American history and lore.  Stock tickers, balance sheets and bankruptcy sales tell part of the story, but there's a difference between arriving at the scene of a train wreck and actually watching it happen.The value of this movie is that, in spite of all of its flaws, you get to watch the train wreck knowing full well what's going to come, you can see why the principals didn't see the things that seem so obvious to us watching the film now, and you can see how their hubris, lack of technical understanding and lack of focus lead to their downfall.I'm sure that it could been a better movie, but it's the only behind the scenes account we have of what must have happened hundreds of times all over the country.  Like the Zapruder film and Hanlon & Naudet's account of 9/11, it's value comes from the fact that the cameras were there, catching history as it happened.This movie should be required viewing for all B-School students, sort of like making student drivers watch Red Asphalt. "},{"Title":"Interesting lessons in the Dotcom world.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I have friends who either work for or own a Dotcom company. So many fail, but they keep going at it. For those who make it, life can be sweet. It use to be a world where everyone can make it until the NASDAC fell apart.This film by former MTVers, is a slick and glossy look at a rise and fall of a Dotcom company. We follow two high school buddies (Kaleil and Tom) from their coming up with a name and idea for their site to their breakup and demise. The emotions are all there, from elation to despair. You are there for everything. Though the film has no narration you can still tell what is going on if you pay attention.This is an interesting piece of life in the late 20th century. You'll think about these guys the next time you go cruising through the internet. If you see it, rent it.  "},{"Title":"Not a movie about .coms or tech","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Startup.com is not a movie about the dot-com boom. It's not a movie about building a business; it's not a movie about technology and new industries.It's a movie about greed and ego.The two founders start off with the idea that they want to create a dot com -- they bounce around a bunch of goofy ideas like virtual cemetaries and eventually settle on a portal for government-related services. The fact that they wanted to document the startup of this venture from day one is another testimonial to their ego, greed and lack of focus.I agree with most of the comments others have said about the movie. It's fragmented, and has gaping holes in it relating to explaining what's going on. The viewer ends up really not having a clue as to why the venture failed, which is another testimonial to the principals in that apparently the nature of what went wrong wasn't nearly as important to them as the fact that it did go wrong and their dreams weren't realized. Boo hoo.After seeing the movie and not having much additional information on the project, I am left with my own thoughts as to some of the blanks that the film left open. Specifically, these guys failed because they were more interested in the fruits of their labor, than the labor itself, which was a means to an end. That's why they failed. The only reason they got as far as they did is they ran into others, greedy employees, greedy financiers who were just like them and had no passion for the job, just the brass ring that was promised at the end.They might have had good people working for them, but I'd bet that there wasn't a single person in the company who actually had innate passion for the application and industry they were in. If you ask any successful businessman what's the secret, the first thing they'll likely tell you is, Do something you enjoy doing. I'm sure Kalil enjoyed hob-nobbing with rich people, but that wasn't the purpose of his company, though it looks like his subsequent career involves that.We're left to try to figure out exactly how things went wrong.The one thing that I'm left with is, the tech end of the project never worked right. I'd bet good money the whole foundation was built on Windows technology and was never very flexible or manageable. And Tom is probably responsible for dropping the ball there, but then again like I said, these guys didn't really care about the business... they just wanted to be successful.If anything, the movie doesn't really teach us lessons about startups. It is a tale of two misguided, self-absorbed guys who find other self-absorbed people with more money and get a free ride for a little while.  "},{"Title":"Great potential but killed by a lack of focus and vision from the makers","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" At the time of the dot.com boom, Kaleil Tuzman and Tom Herman start up their own internet company seeking to offer a platform to enable activities carried out at the local Government level, such as the payment of parking tickets, applying for licenses and so on. We join them at the very start of this journey as they gather funding, grow the employee base and begin developing their product and compete for business and investment. However, in business as in life, things do not always go to plan.I was quite looking forward to this film, not least because it was one of the documentaries screened as part of the ten year anniversary of the BBC's Storyville stable &#150; Storyville being known for the quality of the documentaries. Secondly I did also think the film sounded fascinating on many levels due to the subject matter but also the amount of access it had to the top people in the company throughout the entire process. I'll get to what I think of the film in a minute but firstly let stress that my focus will be what I thought of the film and NOT simply personal views on the people. Reading reviews here, I was surprised by the number that said little on the film but seemed to be reviewing Kaleil and Tom &#150; several with opinions and insinuations that I personally would call offensive at best, racist at worst.Many have commented on the way Kaleil and Tom delivered (or failed to deliver) their product but again the concern for me as a viewer is how the makers of the film have failed to deliver. I'm not sure where the failing occurred but how it appears is that they thought the battle had been won simply because of their great access and that simply being there would be enough to make this fascinating viewing. They are wrong. I'm sure it must have been tough to edit the film down from two years into this running time but it feels like all they have done is cut together bits that are important, without really packaging it together or helping the audience understand anything beyond what we are seeing. As a result it really fails to portray much of value in regards business or the dot.com era &#150; hell, even the closing captions seem brief and disinterested.Without a focus from the makers we are left to find our own and of course we end up on the individuals of Kaleil and Tom. This makes the film more of a fly-on-the-wall reality TV show, relying on personal tensions etc to drive the story forward; but you know what? It isn't that good. Both men are interesting to a point but neither individually or together do they justify a film to share this with the world. It is a shame because the film is not terrible by any means but without any sort of focus and a real lack of vision from the makers, we are left with very little of interest to work with and annoyingly it becomes increasingly apparent as you watch. "},{"Title":"Standout documentary on business, friendship, and trust","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is one of the most compelling and heart-wrenching films of the new millennium.  The real-life struggle of two men trying to capitalize on the Internet Boom shows how mistaken everyone was that the Internet was the premiere way to get rich quickly and live happily ever after.  But aside from the expose that formulating and operating an Internet business is far less glamorous than potential dollar signs would have one to believe, Startup.com is a perfect example of how the lure of riches and the good life can leave behind friendships made along the way; greed demoralizes oneself for the sake of material ownership that may ultimately cease and desist anyway.  Filled with many subtleties and slight flourishes of (in)humanity, and telling signs of deteriorating personal relationships on the road to obtaining power and capital, this film contains far more juicy, resonating-with-truth moments than one could find (or even believe) in fiction.  Perhaps most importantly, one realizes that with every little company with a numerical representation that he sees in the trade market one day that then disappears the next, there are real people like Kaleil and Tom whose lives are at stake and whom are suffering from the harsh reality that in the real world, the American dream does not always come to fruition.  Final Grade A  "},{"Title":"You get it even more if you were there","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I think the greatest thing about this film is how it really shows the audience the future while the people in the film have no idea what is coming around the corner.We get a real sense of what is to come early on when Tuzman comes back from a meeting trying to raise capital.  He bitches about how he got ripped to shreds by one investor (you have no project experience etc... etc..).  It's a very telling sign.and it is amazing to watch how Tuzman was duplicated over and over again by several people who just threw money at a phenomenon without understanding it.  It was an amazing thing to witness and Startup.Com captures it like nothing I have ever seen before.Add in some dramatic moments, an office break in, a missing lawyer, a ruthless competitor, and a telling firing.. and startup.com is one documentary that will engage you.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"On the whole, a solid, respectable fairly fulfilling though uninsightful piece of journalism.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Actually, to correct the plot outline above this movie does NOT trace the birth and success...of new media company govWorks.com. Rather, it douments the rise and fall of a company whose fortunes seem to accurately reflect the demise of 1000s of similar dotcom start-ups. I saw the video on tape and not in a theater and thought the lack of art and panache in the news-like cinema verite photography was disappointing, but the story does deliver. The relationship between the protagonists--then antagonists--who founded and ran govWorks.com makes for compelling viewing and substantial response even weeks after the story-telling. The docu relies on the screen-filling charisma and intelligence of Kaleil Tuzman, CEO of the start-up company guarantees to drive the narrative. His former roommate Jehane Noujaim  produced, directed and shot the feature doc with veteran Chris Hegedus, but it would not have been possible w/out Noujaim's access to the primary subject, Tuzman.Interestingly, feature stories and reviews in the NY media describe Tuzmnan as both Hindu and as a Latino Jew.  It's exactly the type of detail missing in a doc that does not rely on narration to fill in the blanks.On the whole, a solid, respectable fairly fulfilling though uninsightful piece of journalism. "},{"Title":"A year in the life of a dot bomb","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The late '90s dot com boom was a time where young men quit jobs, hooked up with friends, started business and, hopefully, got rich. Most of those guys came crashing down as this era of business proved to be nothing but a wild spending spree, where advertising, pretty offices and boasting as to how much capital someone had raised from venture capitalists was commonplace. Startup.com is a documentary that records one company from this era, govworks.com, that started with a handful of friends, grew in size quickly and then collapsed as many others would. Along the way, girlfriends come and go, friendships are strained, software bugs emerge and are quashed, and people come out at the end with little in their pockets.Startup.com begins when Kaleil Iszaza Tuzman quits his job with Goldman Sachs to become CEO of the then unnamed govworks.com. The company is the brainchild of Kaleil and Tom Herman, who have known each other since high school. They are determined to create a website that will allow individuals to easily interact with their local governments to do such things as pay parking tickets (their principal focus). As Kaleil first joins the venture, it becomes obvious that he is a driven and very strong individual; at one point he wants to name the site untocesear.com. Tom is a much softer-spoken individual, trying to keep everybody happy and deal with problems. Tom is the technical brains and Kaleil is the money go to guy.We watch as Kaleil begins making the rounds of venture capitalists, trying to raise the funds to pay for their operation until they can reach their IPO and start seeing some cash influx. He enters into meetings the purpose of which is for companies to hand over millions of dollars all on the speculation that it will pay off in the future. It is here that first possible chinks in the armor of the two friends emerge Tom starts mentioning ideas in meetings that Kaleil doesn't want to pitch to the investors, and quickly becomes frustrated with his inability to stay on message. Kaliel knows they have to pitch exactly what they want, not a bunch of interesting ideas, but Tom doesn't immediately think the same.Startup.com unfolds in footage that is shot in a variety of locations, often in cars as individuals race from one meeting to another, and we are presented at one point with a montage of scenes of people walking into and out of buildings, rushing to catch planes, trying their best to rub elbows with big money. You get the distinct impression that the biggest part of this world is showing up to put your hand out and say Please. Then comes the first major hurdle a third founder, a co-worker of Kaleil's from Goldman Sachs decides that the risk of the venture is too much, and he wants out, but not without a compensation of $800,000 dollars. They deal with it as best they can and move on.Startup.com is, in many ways, less a story about a business than about what happens when you go into business with people you know and like and quickly find that business doesn't always allow you to deal with your friend as a friend, but as a business associate. Aside from the capital raising, Startup.com doesn't really give you a good indication of what it is like to run an internet business. In some ways, this isn't necessarily a fault, because it is easy to imagine that a bunch of people huddled around computers staring at screens filled with indecipherable code is probably not to exciting to watch. Even so, as the film marches on, and the months pass as the site is readied, it is difficult to completely grasp all the issues involved in the technical aspects of the company.The film's major drama really hits when Tom and Kaleil begin having a falling out. Kaleil thinks Tom doesn't have the technical knowledge to really run that aspect of the business, and is also becoming frustrated that Tom wants to be considered a co-CEO and doesn't respect Kaleil's authority. It eventually leads to terse meetings and a letter dismissing Tom from his duties and then the ever famous scenes where a fired employee is escorted out of the building by security. It is somewhat difficult to watch some of these scenes as the individuals involved must fight the pain and hurt of putting their friendship through this wringer.Startup.com also doesn't really do a spectacular job of showing the company's final days, as the film jump cuts over six months to a single line from Kaleil that reveals that the company is out of money and being sold. Again, despite the desire to show a startup dot com business, the business is sometimes what directors Jehane Noujaim and Chris Hegedus seem least interested in. Despite that, Startup.com is still an interesting look at a brief but fascinating time in these peoples lives and proves enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Needs a site map --- this was edited with a butcher knife","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Possible spoilersFor a film that allegedly went through over 25 revisions, Startup.com is shockingly poor in its construction and story-telling.  Situations are brought up and dropped without explanation, scenes of seemingly great importance are played out with no set up, and people appear and disappear with no introduction or follow-through.The filmmaker's insistence on no narration or title cards is a stylistic choice which, in this instance, proves fatal as the scenes presented by themselves offer no clear narrative through-line.  The mysterious third partner, who ends up absconding with nearly a million dollars, is barely given any introduction and the audience gets no clear description of the financial conundrum his actions create for the two protagonists.  A major story arc, the conflict between Tom and Kaleil over Tom's involvement in the company's tech division, is so poorly presented that when it plays a major role in the third act of the documentary's structure, it's just baffling until the very END of the film when the audience finally understands its importance.  Kaleil apparently goes through two girlfriends in the film, but they appear and vanish with no explanation (this is an issue since the filmmakers solicit their on-camera opinions, then mysteriously excise them from the story altogether)---odd, since Kaleil's relationships with them are initially introduced as a relevant plot point, then there's no explanation when one girlfriend is apparently discarded and replaced.The film is fitfully compelling, and Tom and Kaleil are interesting enough figures to make this story watchable.  Somewhere in here is a document of a fascinating time, of a brief period when hope, vision and foolishness coalesced into a mini non-revolution the effects of which are still being assessed.  The clumsy assemblage called Startup.com is not that document. "}{"Title":"Startup.com captures reaction, not explanation.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Cinéma-vérité is difficult. Telling a story by capturing reactions requires extensive filming, tight editing, and a clear sense of the documentary's purpose.Unfortunately, I found the sense of purpose lacking in startup.com. I understand that you often don't know where you're going when you start, but still, if the documentary is to work, the viewer must be able to follow the events and relate through them to the subjects.The beginning, rise, and eventual fall of govWorks happened. But I have no idea which events were key in any of these phases. Perhaps the story was too complex to tell without stepping outside the cinéma-vérité format for some explanation of events. Still, that is the director's and editor's responsibility, not mine as a viewer.Startup.com is a good movie if you want to see two old friends talk and argue with one another about the company they're trying to build. But if you're trying to learn the facts behind the rise and fall, you'll wonder where the meat of the story is.Startup.com is worth watching when it comes on cable. However, I think you'd be better off spending the price of the DVD on any number of books at your local bookseller. "},{"Title":"I agree with the confused reviewers... SPOILERS","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  ...the problems with Startup.com are rather simple. No narration, no charts or graphs, and no discussion of the other founders besides Tom and Kaliel (who are only slightly interesting because the former is a gay single parent, the latter a sexually overactive multiethnic who I took for an Arab or Semite of some sort. Lack of real backgrounds for these men is another failing of the film.) A narrator could have told us what was really going on when their Asian co-founder walked away with $700,000; what experience the men had working with venture capitalists (none); how the business was really going to work. Was it all for the stock market? Was it a M. McLaren style swindle, a la his concept of the Sex Pistols? We don't know. The charts and graphs could have told a visual picture of how the company was really going, how ready their website was, how theirs compared with their competitors. And then the $700,000 man walks into the film, walks off, and literally telephones his role in as he gets his pile of smackers.I think what the film-makers wanted to make a mythic picture in the style of Leni Riefenstahl's Olympia. We see the screen subjects doing their respective things, yet their inner motivations are vague and the goal becomes small and abstract compared to their struggle. Tom and Kaliel are symbols of the vacuity of the proto-dot.commers; they think that just because they are young and ecstatic about the IT revolution (even mouthing the Mao-like slogans of the period) they can outrun their competetiors, who probably hail from mainstream Fortune 500 companies. In retrospect, it was like watching the rise and fall of the Wehrmacht blitzkrieg; the early stumbles and breath-taking victories, then the first big failure, the enemy closing in, then the collapse. Thus the present govWorks site is West Germany in the `50's.It's always nice to see Sikhs in IT jobs (they could have done mini-bios of the staff instead of leaving them a mass of Starbucks-guzzling background while T and K fight it out.)What's with the orange flag symbol of govWorks.com? Are they supporters of the House of Orange? Are they for Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands? Or were they too weak to use the RED flag of revolution (used by communists, Marxist-Leninists, and anarchists since 1848)? All the world wonders.K's womenfriends what happened to the Peruvian he was dating? What about the next chick? And the last white one, seen throwing a frisbee at K's dog? Is there a party always going on in his pants?Tom's daughter Is she adopted? Did Tom once think he was straight, have a child with a black woman, and get custody? And what about his hippy-ish parents who ran that summer camp? What are their stories? Or Kaliel's mother?....NUMBER 2 We want information, information information...NUMBER 6 I AM A FREE MAN!!NUMBER 2 HAHAHAHAHAHA!!! "},{"Title":"Good, but With Some Flaws","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Right now, this is the definitive documentary on the dot.com culturethat essentially ceased to exist so many months ago. I feel there aretwo ways the film could have been improved. First, the producers shouldhave added subtitles to indicate where the protagonists are in the film.Pretty much all offices look the same, and it would have been nice toknow when the two were at their place, at the consultants' offices, atthe venture capitalists', etc. It would have been helpful to put namesto the numerous faces that come in and out of the picture as well.In addition, and more importantly, the film never gets into thespecifics of why GovWorks.com failed. One day the company had twoemployees, then they had seventy, then they had ten. Why? What was thebusiness plan? What were the goals of the company? What did the Web sitelook like? I think the story of how this business worked (or didn'twork) is at least as interesting as the personal tensions between thetwo main characters. When they release the DVD of this film an idealsecond disk would consist of additional information along these lines,as well as a mock-up of the GovWorks site. "},{"Title":"Vacuous in Both What It Is and How It Is Told","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I have developed rather solid ideas about what a `fiction' film should be. It should transform or inform. Is there any reason to relax those standards for `non-fiction?' After all, we are the same viewers. Our minds and lives are the same. The medium is the same.Why then do we put up with second rate stuff? Why tolerate junk? I think we relax our standards because we know that it is largely a matter of accident when a camera and event overlap. So you don't get a reality that is created as a whole; you get fragments that are somehow to be woven. In almost every case, the documentary requires the addition of a guide, a narrator that does this weaving for us, who provides all the missing pieces that escape the accident of the camera. In fact, the narrator is the center of the reality and the images annotate with `true' reality.Now consider this. It is about a guy who is all drive with no insight; all representation and no substance; all motive and no motion. He is a character without a story. Add to this the gay technical partner who made (we know from other research) some very bad technical decisions and who just couldn't commit the outrageous time because he was haunted with creating a `family.' Now, there are any number of opportunities in this rough situation to explore, to edify, to transport us to unknown worlds. But alas, the filmmakers decided that a `reality' TeeVee treatment was good enough. That it was enough to just `be there' and see some candid situations with no insight, no depth, no context. And to judge from the reception of this empty voyeurism, that's all the public needs.This film is about thin character-based representation. It IS thin character-based representation. It is about supposing that the thinness is good enough for consumers (who here are treated like so much coal to be shoveled). And it itself makes that same assumption. I imagine the executive at MTV behind this looking and acting just like the smarmy Kaleil.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Good startup","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you don't have a good design, you're not good startup. People will not use your app or website if your startup isn't looks good.OK, you can use design like this designmodo.com/startup for presentation of your product, but is important to make your product like your presentation page... or, your your startup will not have success without good design. OK, you can use design like this designmodo.com/startup for presentation of your product, but is important to make your product like your presentation page... or, your your startup will not have success without good design. OK, you can use design like this designmodo.com/startup for presentation of your product, but is important to make your product like your presentation page... or, your your startup will not have success without good design. "},{"Title":"Could had used some more focus.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Main problem I had what this documentary was that it didn't really ever focus truly on anything. It doesn't go into depth with anything. It could had easily put some more focus on its subject, starting a dot com company, or more on the 2 main founders of it.The documentary really doesn't explain thoroughly what the entire idea and functionality behind govWorks.com was. So the viewers are being pretty much clueless at what the creators of this website are actually trying to achieve and how they think that they can rule the market with their one idea and concept. It's therefore hard to truly distinctive for the viewers what they were doing right and what they did wrong with their concept.It also doesn't help much that none of the key persons in this documentary very rarely recapitulate or explain anything into the camera. We don't get to see why they made certain choices or even how the website got developed or marketed. or why certain people had to leave the company because they weren't considered suitable enough for the job. Apparently this got shot over the course of about 2 years but the movie is being told and cut in such a way that it actually feels like a couple of weeks. Seems to me that the camera only showed up once for a day every two weeks, or only when a special event or important day got planned. So to me the documentary just doesn't feel like a natural and well flowing whole because too much stuff and time got omitted and it was lacking in focus or detail.Perhaps this all could had been saved and more interesting if the two main founders were presented as some more interesting individuals as well. They now instead more come across as two inexperienced young guys who have plenty of ambition but are pretty much clueless at what they are getting themselves involved with and the movie really doesn't focus enough on their characters at who they are and what is driving them. Because of this you are not really feeling at all involved with any of them, or their dreams and goals.It probably sounds as if I hated this documentary but this is far from the truth really. It still remains a good watch because it still has a good subject and it's always fun and interesting to see other people working hard and dealing with all kinds of ups and downs. And there is plenty happening in this documentary, I only wish it all got presented a bit better.A good enough watch all but it still remains a real missed opportunity, that had far more potential in it.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Reality TV during the dot com era ... Fascinating.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you've ever wondered what it's like to be in a startup company, this movie is a must-see. Although you don't quite see everything or understand everything - you do get a glimpse of the amazing real-life drama that occurred during the startup phase of this company. It's probably pretty representative of a lot of dot-com era companies.This is a documentary that follows the two young entrepreneurs that founded govworks.com in 1999. It follows them from 8 employees to over 200 and loosely chronicles the personal drama that unfolds.You won't see the business plan or much in the way of strategic meetings, but you will get some semblance of what life was like from the founders' perspective.It's more like reality TV than a documentary because there is no commentary. It's just footage of the ongoing lives of the founders as they struggle through the startup phase of what looks to be a huge future company. Like much of reality TV, it's simply fascinating to watch. Highly recommended viewing - especially for anyone who's thinking of starting a company. "},{"Title":"You can't script drama this good","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is an excellent, compelling look into a time that seems so alien and so far away now. The days when there was so much money being invested into promises, and how the dot com bubble burst and took so much with it.Even though we now know where the story ends, the documentary is gripping from start to finish. It charts the venture from the inception through to its demise, although it focuses more on the early stages. I was part of a dot com venture and it really brought back the memories of everything is impossible, we are unstoppable that was pushed by those that run the ventures. And in the case of govworks.com, the gorgeous and charismatic CEO even met Clinton. How could it all go wrong? The documentary also charts, in fact in particular charts, the effect of the company on the personal relationships of those involved. Some of the agonies they face are better than stories you see in scripted dramas, and because they are so real they are very involving.It's a shame that the latter stage's of the company's demise are skipped over, we cut from them having over 200 employees to just 50 with no real explanation on what happened in between. Maybe it wasn't really required, maybe they didn't want to be filmed, but it felt like a bit of a hole. It's the only real complaint about the documentary however.Overall it accomplished showing us the birth and death of a dot com very well, and how it affects those involved. And anyone who watches the documentary will probably like me go to www.govworks.com and with sadness see that the domain is owned by one of those companies that registers dead domains, and feel such a sadness that all that blood, sweat and tears ended this way. "},{"Title":"Best movie I have see in a while","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you like movies like Boiler Room, your going to love this movie!!! This movie has it all..it takes you through a personal journey of the founders of govworks to the ultimate demise during the Internet roller coaster of the 90's.What makes this movie standout and better than other similar internet documentaries (i.e. e-Dreams) is that this actually includes some interesting drama and feels like you are watching reality TV at times. But what makes this better is that you have a quick business lesson going on in the background (i.e. venture capital, designing/testing the web site) The only negative is that I would of liked to see more of the techy stuff behind the scenes and if the scenes were a little better explained of what was going on (after watching it 2x, you will get most of it)..but I would of liked to know what really caused their demise or how much better and why was their competitor sites better? "},{"Title":"Startup.com Where's the Beef?","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This film is a good first step in chronicling the rise and fall of a hot dot.com business. Left unrevealed, as many other viewers have commented, is a more insightful look at what the business was all about, what the challenges were in marketing it, how the business expected to make money, and exactly how it rose and fell. Nothing is mentioned about the problems of recruiting talent, pitching prospects, or confronting competition which, apparently, was the cause of the govworks downfall. We also would like to know more about the backgrounds of the founders--where did they grow up? What did their parents do? And what's the story behind the daughter of Tom? (Other comments allude to his gayness but I didn't feel that was clearly implied...Is it relevant?) "}{"Title":"Unfocused","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Documentary attempts to tell the internet boom/bust cycle in miniature, with the story of govworks.com, a startup that began with a lot of enthusiasm and high ideals, reached impressive heights, then crashed and burned with the market went south. The problem with it is that it doesn't really tell a story. There's a story here about these sort of companies, and why they fell -- but it's not here, I'm still not really sure why govworks couldn't make a go of it. Although there's a lot of scenes of the principals pitching to vcs (venture capitalists), there's no effort to try to explain to the viewer what they're doing and why it's important.The movie makers instead want to focus on the relationship between the two principles, but there's not much effort to make us care about these two -- we see their relationship tested but we're not given much of a context to make their trials seem important.There's a great movie waiting to be made about this era, but this ain't it. "},{"Title":"What the chaps are doing now","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you are interested, this is what these boys are doing now.Not convinced they have ever actually achieved anything, but the film is nevertheless interesting for the first 2/3s of the show.It follows the team raising money, hiring people, firing some others and getting swept up in the bubble of 99-2000.It would have been better to see the new CEO takeover and the machinations involved here as the demise that is shown is a purely personal one, and I would be interested in see what they thought about it after the event. Clearly Tom and Khalil work together (see below)http//www.recognitiongroup.com/articles.php?post=74 http//www.recognitiongroup.com/about_us.php?sub=2 "},{"Title":"What the hell were these guys thinking?","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is quite possibly the worst documentary I have ever seen. It looked so amateurish. Chris Hegedus was one of the Directors of The War Room which was a great movie (albeit a little one sided), but it looked beautiful. Startup.com looked like it was shot in some guy's basement. The quality was so pitiful that I couldn't stand watching it. I saw about 30 minutes or so and I had to take it back to Blockbuster and get something else. I can't understand how something so amateurish some from someone like Chris Hegedus. How the hell did this win any awards to begin with??? The War Room definitely deserved an award, as did another great documentary called Ameragosa (both won awards). This documentary looked like it was done by Uncle Joe who also does weddings on the weekends. Shaky, dimly lit, unflattering lighting, bad sound, a 10 year old could make a better film than that guy did. "},{"Title":"Involving Dot.Com But Leaves a Lot Of Questions Unanswered","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Start-up.com is a really involving documentary, a dot-com story brought to life with real lives and real people.It was particularly astonishing how interesting it is as I'd just finished watching the 10 episode fictional mini-series on BBCAmerica that covers the same ground, Attachments and the non-fiction version mostly holds up as entertainment as well. Where it doesn't is intrinsic in the D.A. Pennebaker-produced techniques -- how much of what we see can stand alone as fact and how much is interpretively selected by the filmmakers? And how much of what we see is influenced by whom was the most comfortable with the filmmakers' constant presence, or who was the most verbal when the cameras are around? Clearly, the central figure CEO gave the filmmakers (one of whom was an old college friend) the most access, so we get a lot on him, and even some glimpses at his personal life. Was govworks.com Achilles heel insufficient attention to the actual web site functioning or were geeks less interesting to the filmmakers than the deal making CEO's?The fictional version was very careful to contrast the types. A compromise technique is the one Real World takes where we see (somewhat phony, somewhat staged) action unfold and then have the participants face the camera to explain themselves. But the context here is missing for the geeks working on the project (which Attachments is sensitive to) as opposed to the brash, camera-charming entrepreneurs.(originally written 7/8/2001) "},{"Title":"Entertaining and educational","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I purchased this movie on VHS at Save A Lot for $1 this week. I had heard of the documentary and decided to check it out. Hey, if it sucked, it's only a buck, and I can at least tape over it. This is a great movie. The movie does start slow, but it really picks up as the business and personal relationships (and the inevitable conflicts between them) grow more intense. The people in this movie are genuine people and it is easy for the viewer to relate to the joys and setbacks they face. This movie would be great for business students, as myself was once one. I would also recommend it for any entrepreneur, wannabe entrepreneur, and manager. I would write more, but I don't want to give anything anyway. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and insightful","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was flipping channels last night and happened to land on this documentary. I wasn't quite sure what was going on but I was entertained long enough that I stayed up 'till early morning watching this story unravel. This was a good look at the ins, outs and struggles of a couple of guys with a good idea (who happened to get a shot). Though I wasn't impressed by the camera work, I did enjoy the movie, particularly the look at the struggles faced by many start ups (be they .com or other) and how, more often than not, important business decisions can force one to choose between family and friends or the business. Ultimately, this documentary follows two friends, one charismatic and the other a bit of a geek, who have the drive to overcome failure and try again.8/10  "},{"Title":"More than just a business story","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  What I found most compelling about this wasn't the the business story, but the story of the friendships and personalities involved.POSSIBLE SPOILERS...If you watch the movie several times, as I have, you notice some glaring personality flaws even in the most genuine of the partners, Tom.  For instance, In one scene, after the meeting with the investors, he is very confident talking about share dilution and their reduction of his personal stake...then after a fallout with another partner claims to not even know how many shares he owns (seeming as a tech guy, not in it for the money). Kaleel (sp?) on the other hand removes every other contendor for power in the company like someone who's read Sun Tzu far too many times.The success the company began with was intertwined with the success of their personal lives and friendships...I found it interesting to watch the personal relationships crumble, and the business follow right behind. "},{"Title":"The dot com bust...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie shows the first hand downfall of a dot com.  The movie shows what happened to most of the dot coms in an easy to view pacakge.  At first you think that these guys could actually make it as a successful dot com and I think that a lot of people in the dot com world thought the same also.  A interesting look at the inside of an .com from beginning to its eventual end. "},{"Title":"Despite some shortcomings, a very good movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I agree with some of the other comments that the film shows very little of the technical and business details of the web site. Yes, these details would have been interesting (the one scene showing them testing the dreadful search engine is hilarious), but the makers of the film obviously decided to focus on the personal relationship between the two leaders of the company.For me (as well as my wife) the approach worked. The personal dramas were compelling enough or humorous enough to keep it interesting.There were certainly a lot of dots left unconnected, but many of them (like what happens with Kaleil's ex-lovers) are probably better left unconnected.If you like this sort of cinema verité, I would highly recommend A Perfect Candidate, which is a much fuller and more interesting movie. Still, I'll give startup.com 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I didn't care much for this, it seemed too contrived for a documentary. Also, the filmmakers seemed to steer me towards certain characters, and yet I was completely unsympathetic towards the protagonist because of what they chose to show me of him.This movie disappointed me because the story and the people were interesting, yet the movie fell flat because of snappy editing that didn't allow the viewer enough time to understand each scene.  The developments in the story were glossed over in lieu of showing the men in boxers or other stuff that was incidental to the tale that they were telling.I'd recommned that you skip this one and just read up on this story.  "}{"Title":"A MUST SEE FOR ENTREPRENEURS!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I am an entrepreneurship student at Carnegie Mellon. I have studied raising money, valuation, and the technical aspects of a startup business. However, nothing can compare to seeing the actual events take place in person. Only a real life documentary can show you the highs and lows of creating your own business, the friendships that break over the course of the business, and the fundamental issue of revenue. Nowadays, without revenue and a working product no VC will even look at you, and it is fascinating to see how these dot-com's had little revenue but valuation OVER 100 MILLION!!  valuation today is around 2-3 million, and the VC has the upper hand!!  this movie is excellent, a must see, you must see it, and then study their mistakes!! "},{"Title":"Very Funny.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS Ok, it probably wasn't meant to be funny; but it is. I mean in the first five minutes of the film the founders are high-fiving and hugging. Why? Not because they have the first version released on the internet and ready to go; but because they registered a domain name. Don't get me wrong; they had a rather good idea. The execution is just so clumsy; it's funny. I have my domain name too; you don't see me getting all emotional about it. For the first hour or so; they're trying to get money from people instead of trying to make the company go and work. We find out half way through that they haven't even released the site to the public yet. You'd think that they wouldn't need $50 million to start a small internet company. I mean starting an internet company should only require about 20 people at most instead they have 250 people working there. And the worse part is that it takes an entire weekend to get the site working; with about 60 people working on it. None of the people there seem to know what they're doing. Do any of the people know about PHP, HTML or JAVA?You see the 90's at work you have investors throwing money at them; you see them hanging out with Clinton. You see them talk about getting rich and how stupid the third founder is for taking $800,000 and leaving. You see them fail the last few months Clinton is in office. What's worse is when you find out what they're up to now at the end. "},{"Title":".Com-mendable","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If you worked at a dot-com, you will see some part of your life in this movie. There is no better current film that captures the heady adventure of the beginning (while showing that practically everyone, even those with half-finished business plans, got money) to the eventual fall of the internet culture.Yeah, there are lots of valid complaints. Almost no bio of any non-Tom, Kaleil characters...almost a total lack of understanding what the website did...but it's the best around thanks to the filmmakers' ability to pluck one story out of the many and hew pretty closely to it. "},{"Title":"Skillfully done documentary","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a must see documentary for all 'Gen-X'ers about the rise and fall of a startup dot.com business.  It's also a great study of human relationships and how they are affected by business matters.  It's difficult not to take sides and comment outloud during the entire film on the mistakes made by the company CEO's.  Must see. "},{"Title":"When Children Play Company","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The interpersonal dynamics that unfold as you watch two friends struggle to build an empire and their fortune are simply amazing. Whoever thought of giving these two $50 Million was simply foolish.  This movie provides a wonderful perspective into the Internet Start-Up World not often publicized. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and interesting film","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Startup.com is a valuable and interesting picture of the rise and fallof the very early days of the Internet. Basically, if you're interested inthe subject matter, you'll probably find the film interesting; if you'renot, then you won't.But on the whole it's an interesting picture of how a lot of bigventure capitalists trusted two inexperienced kids -- just out ofschool -- with millions of dollars. We see Tom and Khalil growfrom awkward kids into modern businessmen, and we see what itdoes to their relationships. Interestingly, the two partners spendmost of their time obsessing over money, and their own future,without much care for what happens to the people around them, orfor each other.No, this film does not connect all the dots for you. Some plot pointsare left dangling or unexplained. But life's like that, you know.  "},{"Title":"Excellent. A must see for those who get off on the real world.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Looks like a documentary, but feels like a feature. Captures some real human moments which are all the more powerful because you know they are presumably REAL. Just saw it on Pay TV and have already recommended it to all my movie friends.  I'm just amazed that the camera was allowed around at all the moments. Would sure like to see the out-takes! "},{"Title":"A very compelling documentary","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Startup.com *** out of **** Remember the failure of the dot.coms?  This documentary profiles the rise and fall of govWorks.com, founded by two twenty-somethings with lots of ideas and dreams.  The film follows the two guys through good and bad times, as they celebrate and cry.  The movie is uneven at times, and it's sometimes hard to understand what's going on.  But, the dynamics of the two guys make for interesting viewing. MG  "},{"Title":"There's a great documentary hidden somewhere in here","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I make a plea to the producers of this film to go back through their footage and recut this documentary so we can see the story that is hidden somewhere in here. The story of the wunderkind dot-com is the most important story of the last five years and it needs to be told in a film like this. However, the way this film was cut, the viewer has no idea what is going on. We have no idea who these people are -- one of the reviews said that Tom is gay? He is? The film gives no clue. I spent the whole movie wondering about Kaleil's ethnic background. Is he Turkish? Is he Hispanic? Is he a Muslim? Is he a Hindu? -- We have no idea what decisions are being made and for what reason. We see one of the original partners being bought out, but we don't get enough detail to explain what exactly is going on. We see that there was a break-in suspected to be industrial espionage, but we see no resolution of that issue. We see Kaleil pushing Tom out, but we have no idea what his motivation for that is. We don't meet any of the investors and we don't learn anything about how they affected the business. We really don't have much idea about the business itself, except for the original pitch. We don't know what's happening, why they're growing so fast and why they fail so quickly. To sum up, WE CAN'T TELL WHAT'S GOING ON. Please, producers, recut this documentary so we can see the real story. You've piqued my curiosity, but all you've given me is a 90-minute teaser. "},{"Title":"An intriguing movie, but where are the details?","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie has been advertised as a film 'about the rise and fall of a dot-com company.' It really is a film about Kaleil Tuzman and Tom Herman. It moved at a brisk pace and I cannot fault Hegedus and Noujaim for their talent. The movie sometimes seemed as though it were a fictional story, rather than a documentary.What bothered me though was that they did not go into enough detail about the company! We didn't learn how they met or hired their other workers. In fact, we weren't introduced to them at all. It would have been good to see more of the technical side of how the company got going. Instead, most of the time was spent following Kaleil and the others around as they try and round up money for the project. The only insight we were given into the technical aspects of the company were the weekend before the launch where they realized that their search engine sucked. I wish they would have touched on this more.Also, the ending came too fast. One minute, they have 233 employees, and before you know it, they are down to 50 and then the movie ends. What happened? We had some idea of why it happened, but they skipped 6 months and it would have been nice to see what happened. This movie was about 90 mins long. They could have easily added another 30-45 mins and not lost my interest because they people WERE so interesting and the story was something you heard a lot about but never really saw HOW it happened.I was hoping that the DVD release would have had some extra footage, but unfortunately it did not. Maybe Hegedus and Noujaim will release something later.Bottom line? It is worth watching. And at $17.99 it is even worth purchasing on DVD (it is not available on VHS). However, it could have been even BETTER.  "}{"Title":"WatchThisDoc.com","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Compelling documentary about the inner-workings and personal ups-and-downs of starting and running a successful business, and in this case, an internet business--better known as gOVWORKS.com. Provocative from beginning to end and intelligently woven with all the right components there to fascinate us with.  Granted, this documentary is not for everyone, but definitely for those who have ever wondered about what it would be like to take on and manage a competitive and weighty business.  Grade A-  "},{"Title":"$65m is alot of money just to pay parking tickets","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This doco is very funny. It was edited down from 400 hrs of video. Actually it might be the kind of thing they show in schools to illustrate what happens when you spend all your time chasing money and not working on a better mousetrap.There was a short scene just before the site went live where it became apparent that the design and structures of the project site weren't up to much. On the whole though the film is played for laughs.Best bit is when CEO gives Bill Clinton a card. Bizarre but entirely believeable. "},{"Title":"Excellent work with amazingly intimate footage pieced together to preserve the through line and themes.  Really good.     urto b","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This documentary was one of the best I've seen.  I was particularly impressed with the filmmakers' ability to get intimate shots of the two main characters talking about each other separately.  The two characters' relationship -- the main story of the film -- is inherently interesting from a dramatic perspective because they have known each other since their teen-age years and are both smart, aggressive and goal-oriented but in most other ways (e.g., emotionally), completely different.  One (the ex-Goldman guy) is focused, aware of what's going on around him and understands the importance of appearances and playing the game while the other (the more technical guy) is focused on loyalty and less able to change(sort of a classic nerd).I would love to see the unused footage for this.  The filmmakers must have had a helluva time figuring out what to use.  But what they have done works structurally and thematically.  I will say no more so I don't ruin the story for those of you who haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Like looking in the mirror of my life","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The only person involved in this venture who made money was the third company founder who was bought out for $700,000 after investing only $19,000 and a few hours after work for four months. What a deal.This movie captured the over-emphasis on people's feelings. The characters said more than once they didn't care what the VC people thought. What? These are the folks who bankrolled you! Anyone who disagreed with them didn't get it.Having spent time in this industry, I can honestly say that I have learned a lot, although I got about as rich as the characters in this movie.The movie is not uplifting or educational in any way, but it is a realistic presentation of the rise and fall of a dot-com. For a more humorous representation of the IT industry, watch Office Space. "},{"Title":"Blair Witch Project seeking Venture Capital?","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" After 15 minutes of this movie, I felt so nauseous from the shaky film work that I wished someone would point the camera person to steadyTRIPOD.com, in the hopes that they would use one.So, I tried to close my eyes and just listen to the dialog. And I realized this is a really boring movie. Neither Tom nor Kaleil have a passion for anything - other than for acquiring and making money. Neither one seems particularly interested in technology. Neither seems interested in the dynamics of forming a company.Imagine two guys delivering monotone dialog to each other saying things like I couldn't be more excited.Having worked at a startup for the last couple of years, I was interested in this movie to see how entrepreneurs develop ideas, how new companies recruit people, how they build a company culture. I was hoping for a glimpse of a couple of visionaries at work.But this movie merely showed two dreadfully boring, passionless men.Maybe the camera-person didn't *want* to take a steady shot of these vacuous males. The rocky shots were a small attempt to shake things up. "},{"Title":"Excellent Documentary","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I encourage everyone who has any inkling of what the dot.com era in economic history was about to see this film.One of the more important aspects the doc illustrates is the length some people will go to make money - compromising personal relationships and integrity all to make a buck. Being involved in an industry like technology, I thought the raw portrayal of the start up phenomenon caught exactly what was right and what was wrong with this whole collision of technology meeting money.An interesting documentary but, more importantly, an important warning. "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary about business","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I came away feeling very grateful to the filmmakers for documenting the dot.com era. As someone who had many friends who worked at dot.coms (I refused to be lured into the maelstrom), I appreciate their showing how really difficult it is to start a successful company. The co-owners of GovWorks worked 80 hour weeks for more than two years, invested their own as well as their friends and relatives money, and came away with way less than zero. Along the way one of their co-founders cheated them out of $700,000, they were treated brutally by venture capitalists and one was forced to fire the other when things started to go wrong. For all those people who think everyone involved in the internet revolution became an instant millionaire, see this movie and understand the reality of 98% of the internet companies that were started, and eventually, failed. "},{"Title":"Trouble in the Cutting room?","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I'm sure there is a documentary amongst the ruins of this Yawn-fest somewhere, given enough time maybe the producers could find it. I do not connect with any of the characters. This is a problem for a documentary. That disconnection soon festers into a complete animosity bordering on hostility. Although because of the poor story flow, I'm not really sure what is happening to them and what are the consequences of whatever it is they are trying to do. The story and faces jump around so quickly it is very hard to completely understand what is going on. The 3rd founder that takes them for $700K is introduced so late into the film, Khaleil and Tom have to backpaddle (fruitlessly) to explain oh yeah, this guy created the idea too. And just when I thought I had a slight grasp on who all the tertiary characters were, some crazy woman in ranting about getting a puppy? What's up with that? Also, did Tom really have to give all those awkward speeches to the staff? I can only imagine the boredom they felt when it was really happening. Actually I think I feel for them.  "},{"Title":"Talk your way into failure","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I think the most revealing issue about this movie is how little time is devoted to these two wannabe CEOs actually talking about their company. They seem far more interested in themselves, their relationships, and their space than handling the day to day innerworkings of their company. The two main characters spend a lot more time talking than they do working.This movie also reinforces the fundamental problem with the whole dot.com industry. People with no business skills were allowed to run companies when they clearly could not even manage their own lives. These two clowns should have never been allowed to run this company. They had no skills and it was readily apparent in every scene and every dramatic twist.As a movie - its more interesting than entertaining. As a business owner, I was more disturbed and intrigued by this movie than I was entertained.  "},{"Title":"Not the documentary for me...","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  To each his own, of course, but I could not make myself interested in the ups and downs of starting a new dot com.  I did not find all the talk about venture capital, strategic moves or group meetings compelling in the least. Perhaps I've been spoiled by watching one too many Maysles brothers docos, which always seem to pull back the curtain on the human condition.  But after the third instance of someone screaming into a phone at a business partner, I tuned out. A film certainly for those in the business or tech world, a slight turn-off for the rest of us. "}{"Title":"It's a tease","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The poster says this one is brought to us by the same people who produced The War Room.  The The War Room succeeded because it focused on the actual workings of Clinton's campaign, headed by George Stephanopolis and James Carvelle.  Startup.com fails because they decide to focus on relationships between the people who form an internet company.The juice of The War Room was seeing the real political decisions being made.  Who can forget the moment they realized what the central issue was and put it up on a big sign so they wouldn't forget It's the economy, stupid!In Startup.com we never see the real workings of the internet company they are forming.  One exception is a great moment when they test the site days before it will go live and discover how poorly their search engine performs. It's supposed to help you pay a speeding ticket over the internet, but when you do a search the site shows you the name of a Mr. Speed who works for some city agency.That kind of real life detail is mostly lacking, leaving the viewer wondering what's going on.  One of the key dramatic moments is whether one of the partners may be forced out of the business, yet it was never made clear why.  If he didn't turn out to have the talent required for the specific position, why not just step aside and let someone else do it? Why consider forcing him out entirely?They have a competitor.  That could make for good, real life drama.  Which site is best?  It turns out one site is better, but never find out why. We just see the emotional meeting where they discuss it. It seems like this is a documentary about an internet startup, but made by people who think, Computers are boring, let's show the relationships, when the people talk about their feelings.It's ironic that while this movie is about an internet startup, very little time is spent showing what the site does, how they scaled down their original expectations, or why money wasn't coming in.  Most audience members understand the internet well enough to take in that kind of material, and those with no internet experience might like to see what's going on. Apparently it's only the film makers who find the internet boring, leaving the audience in the dark.A few moments of the relationship stuff are interesting, but it just isn't that compelling to see what happens to the friendship between a couple of high school buddies.  Who cares how some nerd feels about his best friend?Startup.com misses the real excitement of an internet startup.  What moments do come through seem accidental.  The jokes after meeting with venture capitalists who seem to use the word heuristic in every other sentence -- that really gives us a feel for what these two guys are going through.In the end the movie fails as a documentary because we learn precious little about it's subject.People, including reviewers, have heard about dot com's for a long time now, yet most know nothing about their workings.  This movie gives them a only a little taste, but they seem to be lapping it up.Taking the movie on it's own terms, only one of the relationship points seems to work -- when they are making fun of the people.  There's one especially hilarious scene where the girlfriend of one of the guys whines about not seeing her boyfriend enough, and another when she pouts about wanting a puppy.  She displays the pouting and complaining that very pretty girls often get away with.  It's satisfying to know the internet guy dropped her.If you're desperate to see the inner workings of an internet company, go see this film.  You'll appreciate it the same way a person who's been lost in the dessert for a week appreciates a half cup of water.  It's not enough to satisfy, but when you're very thirsty you'll take anything you can get. "},{"Title":"Nothing.com is more like it.","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Like the industry itself, all dreams and get rich schemes, Startup.com is all flash and no content. For the first 25 minutes I didn't even know what products they were planning on selling to the American people -- apparently they didn't know either. The rise and fall of these kids was difficult to follow and impossible to fully  understand. Why didn't it work? You would have thought a start up documentary would give some insight into the reasons why, but like the immature business  men  who are all too clearly playing dress-up, the film makers didn't know what they were doing either. The whole concept lacks narrative -- the essence of any documentary. Scenes of embarrassing business meetings, missing lawyers, unproductive Ra-Ra retreats and a serious co-dependent relationship between a gay man and a straight guy whisk by our eyes without reason or rhyme. Why did the business fail? For a documentary to work, we the audience, have to be brought along on their  ride. We must be given an introduction to the players, the situation and a hint of where the ride is headed. Instead we are given flashes of MTV 's Real World   indirectly creating a reality that is very unreal -- just like most failed internet business plans.  (though I'm sure the kids filming it didn't see that) Five kids in a room  will behave differently than five kids in a room with a camera. Having said that -- from the first frame it became obvious that these two deluded children would fall on their faces. But the film maker didn't show us the rise or the fall in any detail, so when they fell -- we didn't care. Documentary film making is about caring.   Therefore this was not a documentary on Internet start ups, it is a documentary  about two co-dependent male friends. And I cared about Tom Herman, the only real person in the movie.   "},{"Title":"A documentary?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  While watching this film, I was in disbelief at how perfectly the filmmakers seemed to capture the most pivotal moments of the rise and fall of this startup company.  At many points, it seemed so perfect that I suspected that this whole movie was scripted out.  No, I don't really believe that's the case, but I say that as a compliment to the filmmakers' ability to be in the right place at the right time, and their editing work.I think there seems to be some confusion as to the point and relevance of this film.  If this film is simply a documentary, I agree that it doesn't do a very good job in that respect because it's neither factual or informative. However, I don't consider this film a documentary.  This film feels like a typical feature film, except that it's REAL, which makes it so much more incredible and compelling.  It's about people and relationships, not about websites or business plans.  Watching the characters develop and seeing the relationships unravel is fascinating.Sure, it may be hard to relate to the main characters, and you may not find a movie about people starting a business very interesting, but then why the heck would you watch a movie called Startup.com?As someone who is interested in such matters and has even been part of a couple of other failed startups, I give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Synergy of crap between filmmaker and subject","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The same thought and acumen the subjects have for the business of dot-commerce (or lack thereof) is demonstrated in equal measure by the documentarians. This is a poorly constructed piece of hogwash.The filmmakers are easily as stupid as the businessmen. Characters and story beats come and go as if thrown onto an editing console as fast and as random as possible.To those who would say By critiquing the film at it's core you are missing the point..., I would answer The filmmaker failed to illustrate that point, or I wouldn't be critiquingNow to the filmmaker...go and rent the entire pre-80's NFB library and watch it 10 times...that'll teach you how to construct a story.... "},{"Title":"Not enough technical viewpoint.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  You can't say much about the plot of this docu-drama since it *IS* an accounting of real life.   I'm actually amazed by how much they showed. Unless they went back and re-inacted some of the scenes, they must have expected their story to be special.I think that this movie would have been better if it would have been more technical.  Since it is about an internet company. "},{"Title":"somewhat sloppy but fascinating","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Speaking from an internet programmer who lived through the whole .dot com craze, this movie is a pretty good documentation of that insane period in our history. I lived through VC pitches, trying to get funding, frenzied developing and all the ludicrous amounts of money being thrown around.A lot of people complained that not enough was explained, especially the technical details, well if you get the DVD, the directors explain that they wanted to show more of that stuff, but it wasn't sexy enough as the drama of trying to raise millions of dollars and run a company while interpersonal relationships collapse. The rest of the information is there, but is merely a backdrop to the important events transpiring. I think renting the DVD is essential for understanding movie, the commentary explains quite a bit, especially little details about how the whole technical team was from a company called Sapient, and that many of the confusing story lines (like with Ki, the guy they bought out) were extremely complex and difficult to capture in a clear way. To be fair, when you are filming a documentary, you are the wim of fate and whatever you happen to capture, quite often there is so much going on, you can't capture it all. Having said that, the suggestion of providing subtitles for different characters is a good one. Also, more post explaining by Tom and Kaleil would have been good. Of course, they were all probably too busy for that!The movie showed a lot of the problems of a startup, problems I have witnessed first hand, shows the root causes of the failures pretty well if you look hard enough. Tom didn't really know anything and was hardly qualified as CTO. Kaleil was a very good speaker and motivator and seemed to know all the business lingo, but did he really know what the hell he was doing? In all fairness to Tom, as incompetent as he appeared, I can speak from experience that the most sure-fire way for a software project to fail is keep changing the specifications and functionality. That kind of stuff drives developers CRAZY.One thing I kept wondering throughout this film is how these two people were such good friends in the first place, Tom is obviously a very liberal, new-age kind of guy (although his flakiness drove me nuts) whereas Kaleil is your standard Type-A go-getter, extremely driven and obsessed with avoiding failure.Again and again I have been amazed at how documentaries capture events which are so dramatic they seem scripted and yet are not. Someone decides to make a documentary, they don't know what's going to happen, could these filmmakers have predicted that the whole internet dot.com craze would have collapsed right before their eyes? The movie Dark Days is probably the most extreme and incredible example of this.In the end, the whole thing is rather confusing and warrants several repeat viewings to understand what is truly going on, and knowing something about the industry is definetly helpful, but still it's a fascinating documentation of a crazy time period.I especially like the ending, the dog chasing the bone, apt considering they were all dogs chasing the bone of the american dream. "},{"Title":"Another one of THOSE documentaries","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I found myself inclined to like at least one of the two central characters, and I wished even the other one well.  And I very much liked one of Kaleil's girlfriends (the Hispanic one; I didn't catch her name), probably the most clear-eyed person present, certainly the most articulate and the sweetest - although one has to keep reminding oneself that this is a documentary, not a work of fiction, so one can't really be certain.It's the attempt to emulate fiction that's fatal.  It's ALL real-time footage.  There's NO narration, no retrospective evaluation that isn't itself part of the story.  This, I'm aware, is the modern fashion; modern documentary-makers don't seem to care if, when they fail to give us a clear idea what's going on, the final product works neither as documentary nor as fiction.  We like at least some of the characters, perhaps disliked others, but either way, it means nothing THAT they succeeded, failed, or fell out, when we can't tell WHY they succeeded, failed, or fell out.  I have no idea how GovWorks was financed or why it failed.  I'm not even entirely sure what it did.  More tellingly, for one conversation in two, we don't know what the conversation is about (partly because these are people who talk in a kind of positive-thinking business-speak jargon designed to manipulate rather than communicate - which is why Kaleil's Hispanic girlfriend is so refreshing).But an even worse problem with the footage is that it was shot on one of those featherweight digital cameras, which means (a) the resolution is poor, (b) everything looks ugly, and (c) even if the cinematographer WANTS to keep the camera still - I don't get the impression that Noujaim believes in jiggling for its own sake - he can't.  Yes, the new technology makes life much easier for the film-makers.  But the old technology made life easier for audiences it did not, at least, induce seasickness and headaches.A final qualm.  Inasmuch as I understand what GovWorks did, my left-wing soul bridles at the very idea of it.  Such a company should be publicly, not privately owned.  What makes Tom and Kaleil different from the tax farmers of pre-Revolutionary France, apart from the fact that they were better regulated, and meant well? "},{"Title":"SELL..SELL","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The dot.com era is excellently captured by this documentary. Here you have a film, about a subject I know little about. It contains characters who are selfish and greedy. But still you are absolutely hooked for the 1 hour 40 mins.Following the likes of When We Were Kings and One Day In September, this is well worth catching. "},{"Title":"could've been a contender...","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I'm not quite sure what the film-makers were trying to demonstrate in Startup.com. That's not to say that the movie is unworthy, it's just that it fails to live up to expectations, and seems like a missed opportunity.If they were trying to show that venture capitalists gave out money to any pipsqueak dot.com that asked, then yes, that's true, but didn't we all know that already? I thought that's how VCs work anyway? Don't they just give out millions to hundreds and hundreds of new companies, knowing that, at the end of the day, it only takes one of these to make it big, and the VCs will make a fortune?The film-makers did demonstrate well that in such start-ups personal relationships can suffer. They're also very aware of how to make a watchable documentary that displays a good dose of humor and emotion and human feelings. However, I'm just not sure they knew the Internet industry and the business well enough. We get no real idea of what govworks.com was setting out to achieve and how it would make money. We're not made aware enough of how the structure was put in place... yes we see it's flawed, but we don't really find out why.There was an opportunity here to show not only the real emotional/human side to such ventures, but also the failure of the company and its business... it would've been nice to have gained an insight into its collapse, how its business plan was flawed, what contributed to its downfall - all we really see is that, well, it just wasn't good enough. A little more insight into this side of the govworks.com story would've made for a far more powerful film.Still, Startup.com is watchable enough, it just fails to provide the audience with anything they didn't know already. By skirting over some real issues, the film-makers come across as a little naive and not 100% sure of their subject area. Granted, the insight into the CEO's personalities, idiosyncrasies, and personal relationships did work well, and if this is all the film-makers were trying to achieve, then they did an ok job.  "},{"Title":"The best documentary in the last 10 years","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is an amazing film. What luck for the filmmakers (and unluck for the participants) to be able to film this incredible story. As a viewer you're glued to the screen when you for almost 2hours are a witness to the 3 schoolmates building up their own internet firm. But suddenly things go too rapidly. Success is getting over their heads and they  can't control anything anymore. One of the best things about the film is the true direct cinema/cinema verité form where the camera is nothing but a quiet witness to what's happening.  "}{"Title":"Memorable but disappointing","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Perhaps it's just the format of this film, a documentary, but I believe that the movie would have been much better served by good actors and  more solid dialogue.  The fact that the actors are also the business owners is a double-edged sword.  They know better than anyone else the emotions and complexities of the business they were in, but, since they are not professional actors, they do a very poor job of conveying those emotions and the documentary suffers.  There were some truly memorable scenes in this movie and lots of good lines but they were delivered so poorly that they will fade away with time and the only memory I will have of this documentary is that it had some good scenes which I can't remember. Watch this if you want a first-hand account of the .com bust and see what happened to the 99% of people in the industry who didn't become instant millionares.  However, be prepared for some nauseating camera work, poor acting, poor dialogue, and an overall bad movie that epitomizes the era of the Internet boom. "},{"Title":"Integrity of friendship beyond the thrive of money, ambition and test of time","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  STARTUP.COM is a successful documentary of the rise and fall of govWorks.com. From the very beginning, the first strain of music used starting the film was attractive to the ear. The lively energy pervades the camera angles, titles typographic approach, along with methodical and cohesive storytelling of the chain of events, the brilliant touch of including the song Money, that's what I want during the montage segment of chasing after investors - all in all, simply well done. It is not all straight forward tell it like it is documentary recording. Thoughtful editing with skillful camera captures - be it hand-held moves or steady close-ups 'staring' at the two principals, Tom Herman and Kaleil Isaza Tuzman - contributed to this piece of enthusiastic filmmaking. The documentation of the events was drama enough without screenwriting per se.Filmmaking pair, Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker, who gave us the popular documentary The War Room 1993, once again insightfully produced, with Jehane Noujaim joining Hegedus in direction efforts, Startup.com 2001. Humanity and feelings they did not neglect to exclude. In fact, the appreciation of an enduring friendship that withstands the test of time (since childhood friends and college mates), its ups and downs and surrounding people and circumstance, was aptly depicted. We come away with better understanding of Tom and Kaleil.  I would recommend Startup.com over Center of the World, The 2001 - you can watch Molly Parker in Lynne Stopkewich's Kissed 1996 or appreciate her in Jeremy Podeswa's Five Senses, The or István Szabó's Sunshine in 1999; while, definitely, check out director Wayne Wang's outstanding film Smoke 1995, which was based on an article by Paul Auster. Yet another alternative to Center&#133; can be writer-director Atom Egoyan's Exotica 1994, which is a mysterious tale beyond Mia Kirshner being a lap dancer.Keep the River on Your Right A Modern Cannibal Tale 2000, directed by filmmakers, brother and sister David Shapiro and Laurie Gwen Shapiro, is another recent triumph in documenting the human spirits. It is dramatic unto itself in its tracing and revisiting what one man, Tobias Schneebaum, artist and anthropologist, has once ventured - his candid friendships in tribal colors decades ago - and once again, friendships endure. "},{"Title":"This is the real deal.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Okay, let's face it, this film is really nothing special. It is pretty good and it is actually pretty compelling as it documents the rise and fall of an internet mega-site. It follows two corporate a**holes as they have everything they could ever ask for, and then have it slip away.The whole thing is shot on a home video camera by two cameramen who never say a word. The whole movie is filmed on an interesting topic, but quite honestly, I thought this film was boring as hell. I found it to be quite interesting and compelling, but the story was slow, and there is footage shown that doesn't have much to do with anything else. There are some scenes that even look like they were set up. Like, why would a guy be sitting around chilling in his underwear while a guy videotapes him. If I was him, I would've gotten some pants on first. There were just some parts that didn't seem realistic, and seem to me like they were set up in advance.Personally, I thought the film was great. But, it is very, very slow and you must have a very high patience. For major film fans only. And even they should take note that this film is an experience that I would not be able to sit throught more than once.STARTUP.COM gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Record of Young People and Young Businesses","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I recently took an equity stake in a new technology company that closed its venture capital financing on Sept 14, 2001. As a Java programmer working on e-Business applications, this movie clearly hit on all cylinders.Even if you aren't in the tech business, this is a fine, character-driven documentary.  Being 41 years old, I miss the idealistic, energy-filled enthusiasm of persuing a dream as a twenty-something.  I do not miss the occasional lack of wisdom and unrealistic dreams that accompany youth.This is a real drama.  The personalities interact in interesting ways, making this a true character drama.  The plot of trying to fund and build a business brings out the best in the players and the occasional worst.I recommend this movie for anyone, but if you have only a peripheral involvement with the dot.com, this will be especially interesting.  "},{"Title":"Start This One Up!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  No! This film is not a Rolling Stones Internet concert film. Startup.com is a documentary about a dot-com startup business entitled Govworks.com. It entails its promising optimistic beginnings to its catastrophic pessimistic conclusions. Some of the major `hits' of this documentary includes its focus on the fine line between personal friendship & business betrayal, the ambiance of a motivated workplace, and its give-it-all-you-got & life-must-go-on analytical futuristic outlooks. However, the main `protocol' that was the most appealing was the relationship between start-uppers Kaleed and Tom. I hope more documentary filmmakers get `linked ` on to the idea of making films on startup businesses. It would be an effective educational tool that should be further `explored' and should not be `netscaped' by corporate america. So `bookmark' this review, and get your dvd `loaded-down' with Startup.com. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Documentary or documentary - who knows?","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I've just had the pleasure of watching Startup.com on DVD. It's a fascinating story, but afterwards a lot of things puzzle me. In the rear mirror we all know that the dot-com bubble burst, but in 1999 when the filming of GovWorks.com began everything in that end of business looked grand. Therefore in order to make a catchy documentary with a good story (in this case the classical rise-and-fall scenario), how did the people behind the documentary know that following this particular company wouldn't just end with piles of uninteresting tape no worth editing? What if the company never folded - would the filming had continued to this day then? The leaders of GovWorks.com wound up on the cover of Time, rubbed shoulders with Clinton and appeared on T.V. - the source material shown is beyond doubt. But what if the people behind the film contacted GovWorks.com at exactly THIS point and had Herman, Tuzman and some extras re-play the initial struggles and the company build-up and thereafter followed their business adventure come rain or come shine? In short Things don't add up! If a filmmaker contacts a rising company and follow them through ups and downs chances that these endeavous will prove worthwhile is 1 to a million! "}]