[{"Title":"Great camp!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is so unique, it may be as difficult for some to understand as it is to figure out Pootie's language. I was captivated from the first scene right up to the end. Kudos to Lance Crouther for his truly inspired performance as the hero. His physical comedy while combatting his foes or even just interacting with everyone else was brilliant and quirky. You really find yourself focusing on him in every scene, just to see what he was going to do next. There is also the ensemble of actors that inhabit Pootie's world, all of whom did a great job. I often read critics making comparisons between the modern charactor actors and how they pale before those of the distant past - razzz - wrong! These people hammed it up with style and flair. I'm Dirty Dee, dammit!Sah da tay, my brothers.  "},{"Title":"Say sa da tay to the coolest cat in town.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" 8/10 for a little movie I had never heard of before today that I now see has a shockingly low IMDb score? Have my few braincells finally left my heavy skull or does this movie deserve to be seen by more people? I opt for the latter. Pootie Tang is all about . . . . . Pootie Tang (played by Lance Crouther), a man who men want to be and women want to be with. He's a recording artist, an actor, an inspiration to children everywhere and a thorn in the side of evil corporate America. And he does all this with the aid of his powerful belt, bestowed upon him from his father's (Chris Rock, in one of a few roles he plays) deathbed. Of course, everyone likes to see the mighty fall and this is precisely what some nasty folk have in mind for Pootie Tang so the movie chronicles his early years, his amazing status in modern times and his fall from grace as evil businessmen try to gain and profit from his image.Lance Crouther is great in the leading role, all nonsensical talk and smooth charm, and the rest of the cast are all pretty uniformly hilarious. Yes, the bigger names like Chris Rock, Wanda Sykes and Jennifer Coolidge get more time to wring laughs but everyone involved plays their part to perfection, getting maximum comedy value from even the smallest of dumb gags.Writer/director Louis C.K. has crafted a little gem of a film that really deserves a far bigger audience and while it could be accused of being little more than a parody pastiche it becomes more than the sum of it's parts thanks to some spot-on humour, excellent performances and a marvellously wacky sensibility. Seek it out and you won't be disappointed.See this if you like Undercover Brother, Fear Of A Black Hat, Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood. "},{"Title":"my dilly","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" It's criminal, how underrated this movie is. It's inspired on so many levels, and the encyclopedic knowledge of action films, hip-hop videos, 70s blaxploitation and chop-socky movies is breathtaking. I always think of it in the same class as THE JERK and ZOOLANDER, with a healthy respect for flat-out absurdity and non-stop gags. The filming style is rough, and the actors generally have no polish (an undoubtedly deliberate choice), which makes the sudden flashes of precision so devastatingly funny. Wanda Sykes, in particular, is absolute gold as party girl Biggie Shorty, but the film's full of co-stars - Andy Richter, Dave Attell, Jennifer Coolidge, J.D. Williams, Missy Elliott, and Robert Vaughan - who get their turn on the silliness carousel. I can imagine someone who isn't a fan, or at least an observer, of the above things would hate this movie like poison, but for me, who has seen more Jay-Z videos than I ever wanted to see and who can't help laughing when I see a man use kung-fu to bounce bullets off his hair (a gag too complicated to explain, but seamless on screen), POOTIE TANG is fantastic.I'd recommend it more, but it's just too hard to describe! "},{"Title":"Pootie Tang is the Sh*T","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" For those of you that don't get it, leave it alone. This is about fantasy, fun and escapism. Its meant to take you away from reality and make you laugh and it does just that. The acting was not meant to win awards or come close. It is supposed to be fun.I love it! Don't hate cause you don't have it going on like Pootie Tang (LOL). All these men wish they could whip another man's butt with their belts and have all the women slobbering all over them without even having to speak!Biggie Shortie is doing it! I think it was very creative. Its easy to do something that everyone else is trying to do. This and Half-Baked are classics "},{"Title":"Sa da tay! Pootie Tang is OK","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is the ultimate guilty pleasure film. Sometimes I ask myself, why do I laugh at this?. I don't know why, but it funny as hell. Chris Rock is a genius. I don't know how you come up with a story about a funny talking super hero. Throughout the whole movie, this guy is saying things that doesn't make any sense, but the characters surrounding him all understand. How do you come up something like that?!? And put it into a feature film!!! One liners like sa da tay and sine your pity on the runny kine, are classics. Pootie Tang was conceived on the HBO hit The Chris Rock Show, in this spin off movie, Pootie is trying to take all the junk food, drugs and alcohol off the street that is being distributed by Dick Lecter (Robert Vaughn). The supporting cast includes The Chris Rock Show regulars including Wanda Sykes. Pootie Tang seems like a send up to 70's blaxpoitation films, but at the same time, I don't know what it is. Pootie Tang is a mixed bag of funk music, cheesy action and comedy. It all works for Pootie Tang making it the most unusual film ever made.Pootie Tang- rated PG-13 *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Funny is the word","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"35 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  First time I saw a scene of it on cable here in Brazil I could understand a single word! Then I start to pay attention on them and also on the translation. It was doubled funny to me! The words in English are completely crazy and in Portuguese even craziest! I could barely see the rest of the movie because I could not stop laughing!!If you just want fun go ahead!  "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Under-rated Films Of All Time!!!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Just to let the world know---if ya ain't seen Pootie Tang in it's full glory it's time to get your business in order!!! This movie is absolutely one of the funniest, most hilarious, idiotic masterpieces that I have had the opportunity to view. If ya like the kind of stuff ya can laugh at for no reason at all (except that it's funny) then you need to rent it, invite over your friends who are non-believers and do the doggone thing!!! A lot of my own friends here in the great city of Detroit have doubts about my precious Pootie but I am so going to erase all of their fears of letting loose-cause that's exactly what you do when you are all in like me. Chris Rock absolutely needs to do a sequel and I think it should be called,POOTIE TANGING JR. Now how's that for devotion! Pootie--I love you and I always will!!Somebody please tell Chris Rock that we NEED some mo' Pootie Tang in our lives!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny comedy from the Chris Rock team.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not saying that Pootie Tang will be for everyone, but for those interested, it is really a gas.  Pootie Tang was originated on Chris Rock's HBO show with Crouther playing Tang as the new president elect Pootie Tang telling his campaign in lingo that almost no one could understand but it was still dead pan.  Now, he has a movie.  Lance Crouther plays the title character in a short yet entertaining movie about a hero with a belt that helps him against the forces of evil, plus his gift of saying things that have no meaning whatsoever (like ebonics mixed with down syndrome, but it's funny).  Chris Rock (in 3 equally hilarious roles), Robert Vaughn and Wanda Sykes also star in this movie with it's only damaging flaw being that after a while it runs out of steam.  Worth a look.  B+ "},{"Title":"Who says a silly one-joke movie can't be fun?","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" It's easy to pick out what people would object to in this movie. It really is little more than a sketch comedy bit extended to 80 minutes, it really only has one joke and it really is pure silliness. But I thought it was really funny. Some of it, like Pootie's defending himself with his braid, was even brilliantly silly. Having seen it three days ago, I have already forgotten virtually the entire movie, but I thoroughly enjoyed it at the time, and my girlfriend, who is less tolerant of pure silliness than I am, laughed throughout. It did run out of momentum a little as it went along, with a great first half hour followed by diminishing returns on that one joke, but there was enough fun through to keep us watching. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Tang needs a second look here...","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I'm more into classic drama and the epic scene, but when I do get into a comedy it has to be absolutely senseless. I don't want to see any formulaic structure from the drama side of things crossing over - which a lot of Holly-comedies have - it has to take on its own form and the Chris Rock produced Tang does that. The cheese fact is a perfect 10 on the scale and the creative powers that be told this story with precision. I believe this will be a cult classic, not to mention it far out played Undercover Brother which was released on a healthier production and marketing budget that same year. Chris Rock should be proud of his producer role and Lance Crouther was the funniest black-man stereotype I've ever seen. Finally, I remember going to a Blockbuster a few years back with some friends to buy the DVD, it was such a cult hit that some kid had stole the disk and left the DVD jacket on the for sale shelf... That says something. True stupidity is an acquired taste which only few can actually understand. And I would bet a few Franks that comedic geniuses are serious people 90 percent of the time. But when they let loose, look out. "}{"Title":"All kinds of religious inferences","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Pootie Tang actually can be looked at as a parable, an allegory of a messianic figure. How's that for making a purse out of a sow's ear? Consider A powerful figure roaming around doing good deeds, speaking in a puzzling language that only believers understand, attended to by his apostles, befriending prostitutes. Suffering from inner demons he retreats to the wilderness (the farm) and experiences an epiphany through the physical manifestation of his creators, going back and finally confronting and conquering the demons. (Dirty D = Dirty Devil)Along the way he even awakens the dead (the knife wielder at the club), banishes a horde of false prophets (all the fake Pooties), and can bring people to rapture through sheer silence alone. Whew. Heady stuff. Sa Da Tay! "},{"Title":"This is a funny movie. Oh, and it's funny, too.","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Every once in a while a sublimely silly comedy comes along that I simply can't resist. In recent years there's been Let's Go to Prison and The Ringer (Father forgive me, for I have sinned and enjoyed a Johnny Knoxville movie), but in 2001 it was all about Pootie Tang. Lance Crouther headlines as the title character, an African-American ghetto folk hero who speaks in a unique and barely decipherable patois, whilst Chris Rock essays three roles, including that of Pootie's father, who bequeathes a special mojo-laden belt to his son. Years later, corporate boss Dick Lecter (Robert Vaughn) determines to use the Tang family mojo by having our hero endorse products that, intentionally or otherwise, will poison the minds and bodies of African-American youth. When Pootie succumbs to temptation, his mojo is lost, and he becomes a pariah to his people - until he redeems himself and puts The Man in his proper place. Also featuring the wonderful Wanda Sykes as lady of the night and Greek chorus Biggie Shorty, Pootie Tang may be silly, but it isn't dumb. "},{"Title":"so daft it's hilarious","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This is a rare case where we can say the film is so bad that it's good. The jokes and slapstick are outrageously insane. It reminds me of embarrassing yet hilarious inside jokes among my family that I would never share with anyone else, only this time blatantly displayed in public.The best thing about this film is that it's not pretentious, like many comedies are these days. Nor does it try hard to be funny, nor political, nor witty. It's just naïvely shameless, generating pure comedy, and that's why it's hilarious. The character itself, Pootie Tang, is also far from pretentious, and likable. I couldn't stop laughing from the beginning to the end, although I am usually more into serious films. "},{"Title":"The Austin Powers for Black People","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Wadatah my Damies... This movie is great and it's best viewed if you are completely wasted. There's a great life lesson - watch out for the ho's - and it should be a required video in school because it would change the culture and course of our nation. Now is it just me is the Screaming Lady (Robin Montague) just amazingly hot and sexy? If she'd just shut the hell up. Is there a Pootie Tang part two in the works? Anyone know??? If not, I'm going to get sloppy drunk on some scotch and get to work on the script. I want to cast myself in it too. I could be the token white guy, like Tom Arnold. I'd like to play a bartender in a strip club. If I could work that into it that'd be great... for me. The next Pootie Tang should be titled- Pootie Tang 2 Attack of the Teletubbies.  "},{"Title":"Middle-aged white boy says sa da tay!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" And so does my wife, a middle-aged hispanic girl. Just in case anyone thought this movie might only appeal to hip, young, black kids.Heck, even my 70-year-old mother liked it! But she likes anything with Chris Rock in it.Obviously, this is one of those movies where you have to get it, but for those who do, it totally rocks! This movie works on so many levels. I loved the message, I loved the characters, and the movie is just hilarious.I never outright recommend this movie to anyone, as it's too unpredictable. I say, see the previews - if you see anything there you like, chances are you'll love the movie. It's definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Instant cult classic","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  If you think a cult movie is a documentary about the Branch Davidians at Waco, then you're probably wasting your time. If you're a huge fan of Jim Carrey/Adam Sandler types, then you probably shouldn't watch this either.You'll probably enjoy it if you know who Ashley J. Williams is, though.  "},{"Title":"KAYED A BROTHA, DI?","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I have heard a lot of negative reviews in regard to this movie, and though I have to agree it was a poorly MADE film, I on the other hand have to say it was one of the FUNNIEST films I saw last year!!!  I had to go out and buy it on DVD.  The absurdity of a character who has a limited vocabulary of gibberish can become an icon cracks me the hell up!!!  And it's not so much what he thinks of himself, but what those around him think of him.Just watching Lance Crouther keep a straight face has me rolling in the floor with laughter.I could never make the world see this movie thru my eyes, but I just want the makers of this film to know that they have at least 4 fans that I know of.  My co-workers and I can't stop talking about the movie. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the summer! spoilers","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I saw POOTIE TANG on opening weekend because I didn't think it would last in theaters for long. It didn't, but it sure was funny. I've always loved the POOTIE TANG skits on THE CHRIS ROCK SHOW so I was really excited when I heard that there was going to be a POOTIE TANG movie. I had really high expectations for this movie and it lived up to them. It was smart, funny, and had great music. Chris Rock is hilarious as Pootie's father although I wish he didn't have to die so early in the flick. Then Chris Rock appears again as one of Pootie's friends. His friends had some funny scenes, but the funniest scenes are the ones where Pootie Tang is beating up bad guys with his belt. I don't know why that seems so funny to me, it just does. I hope that there is a POOTIE TANG sequel, but since it didn't do too well at the box office, I don't think that there will be one. "},{"Title":"Train wreck of a movie","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This movie, based on sketches written for the Chris Rock Show, flopped back in the summer of 2001. Since then, it's garnered a bit of a cult following. I had to check it out, as I've become a little obsessed with comedian Louis C.K. lately. He was a writer for the Chris Rock Show at the time, for which he won an Emmy, and he wrote and directed this film. Nowadays, C.K. directs and writes (and edits, too, I think) his own show for the FX network, and it's easily one of the best things on television. Unfortunately, his talent does not at all shine through in Pootie Tang, and I honestly have no idea how anyone could find this movie funny. Really, it's a disaster. It's so bizarre that it is somewhat watchable, like a train derailment, but funny is something it absolutely is not. Lance Crouther stars as Pootie Tang, a folk hero of sorts who speaks in gibberish but is world famous for his movies, his music and his general heroism (he often gets in fights with drug dealers who end up in prison). The thing is, this character completely lacks charisma. He sounds like a rip-off of Eddie Murphy's Buckwheat character from SNL, but not even close to as amusing. Chris Rock co-stars in multiple roles (Pootie Tang's father and a member of his crew). Wanda Sykes is the most tolerable thing in the movie. I liked her dancing, at least. The plot reminds me of another lame 2001 comedy, Zoolander, but at least that one had a couple of laughs in it. "},{"Title":"Possibly the start of a new era of truly great film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I enterd the theater of Pootie Tang expecting nothing more than raunchy sex comedy and crude race-related jokes.  What I took in was so much more.  As James Lipton would say, What more can we say than, Tang, Pootie Tang.  As you can see,great movies such as this are often too complicated to put into compelling-enough words.  Lance Crouther can be classified as a new breed of actor who takes the conventionalism of the method acting to new levels of pure ecstasy.  And Chris Rock will soon rank among such respected directors as Spielburg, Howard, Hitchcock, and to a lesser extent, the director of Dude Where's My Car.  I, for one, cannot wait to see what new and innovative ideas will be portrayed in Rocks upcoming epic with the somewhat inferior Sir Anthony Hopkins in Bad Company.  From now on, I'll take my movies on the Rocks. "}{"Title":"If you hate this movie than this kind of humor is not for you.","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This is a film for those who have a warped sense of humor. Luckily for me, I fit into that category. If you enjoy films by Monty Python, Mel Brooks, Abrahams and Zucker, the Wayans Brothers or the Farrelly Brothers than this film is for you. It's odd, outlandish and dare I say, ahead of it's time. It not only features appearances by some of comedies best stand ups but future stars who had yet to shine. Written as a collaborative effort between Chris Rock and Louis C.K. this style of collaboration is a throw back to the days of Blazing Saddles written by Mel Brooks and THE Mr. Richard Pryor. To the casual viewer of middle age this film may seem nonsensical or as some have said downright dumb. Herein lies the problem, why some get it and some dont get it. Though released over 14 years ago some people who may have been out of the loop then and whom today are still out of the loop and without a proper sense of zeitgeist will be watching this film saying Wtf ?. The same can be said for classics such as Airplane The Movie ! or any other films made by the creators I listed earlier. This type of humor relies heavily on the viewers knowledge of the pop culture he lives in even if said viewer is unaware of it. I'm not going into the movie or what it's about, I just wanted to try to explain why some people love it and some people hate it. If you were around in the 90s and enjoyed In Living Color, The Young Ones, Beavis and Butthead, or even SNL or South Park I would say give this gem a chance. "},{"Title":"this is literally the reason i have not killed myself","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would this movie changed my life because everyday I say sa da tay and live life like pootie would "},{"Title":"finnier than i thought it would be","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I was put off from watching this film for a long time mainly because of the bad rep it has, which after watching the movie i just can't understand. The movie was actually very funny, it is a comedy so maybe the story and the acting aren't flawless, but Chris Rock and Wanda Sykes are pretty good, I had no idea they were in it before watching the movie, the dirty villain guy was hilarious, and personally i thought the whole speech thing with Pootie Tang was funny, even though I had no idea WTF he was saying. Maybe it's not for everyone, but frankly I don't think it deserves the low rating it has. "},{"Title":"Better than it gets credit for.","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This movie gets no respect even from it's own writers and actors! That's OK. I really like this movie. And listen, I watch movies that movie snobs/nerds would really go for from Big Lebowski to Cool Hand Luke, back around to Chinatown, Vertigo or Superman 2. I have Netflix, people! NETFLIX!I own the DVD and have actually watched it over and over. It's very short. It's good for parties. It's super silly in a way that you would expect from Louis C.K., Chris Rock, Dave Atell and David Cross. It's just some weird, stupid take on a Blaxploitation movie. I'll admit it MAY not be your thing, and that's AOK. But I really like this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny under the right circumstances","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang can be viewed and even enjoyed under the right conditions.  If your mind is open and you're willing to watch a stupid movie, Pootie Tang has some very funny scenes.  As short as this movie is it still drags a little but overall is worth the time.  Watching Pootie Tang has made me feel more equipped to be able to watch MTV award shows should I ever have the inclination. "},{"Title":"Very funny, in an absurd way.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, the last review (maybe the only one) doesn't jibe with how I feel. I thought this film was fantastic. The second viewing was even better. Music by Prince Paul, lots of actors who deserve to be in more movies and an insanely funny plot. If you liked Orgazmo, you'll like Pootie Tang. I don't really know if I'd call it Blaxploitation, but nonetheless, if you liked Dolomite you'll like Pootie Tang.I mean seriously, he has his own language, fights crime with a belt and deflects bullets with his pony tail.This movie deserves to be in the same class as Orgazmo, The Wrong Guy, Brain Candy and so many other under-rated hilarious movies.If this sounds good to you, go rent it. "},{"Title":"Funny In Its Own Special Way","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I Caught This Movie Early In The Morning On HBO and I Must Say Its Really Funny For What It Is. Its About a Ghetto Crime Solving Ladies Man Who Has His Own Special Language and Demeanor. I Recommend It For Anyone Inneed of A Good Laugh. "},{"Title":"Oooh saputan!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Mr. Tang is a celebrity from the inner city, with a goal of protecting his home land from the evils that are bred by consumerism. But when he does a public service anouncement telling kids to not eat burgers, to not smoke, and to not drink malt liquor, he has an extra-ordinary effect on the kids of the city as the sales of these three products drop considerably.  This upsets Mr. Lester of LesterCorp, the owner of Bad-Time burgers, and a producer of cigarettes and hard liquor.The movie is an epic battle between the powers of corporations and the heros of the inner city trying to protect the masses.  Mr. Tang's character was perfectly played, and his one-liners are down-right hilarious.  Sa da tay! The scene with Pootie vs the Pooties is one of the best fight scenes ever to hit the big screen.  "},{"Title":"what didn't you get?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Though savaged by critics and ignored by audiences -- the few people I knew who saw it in the theatre all said they were the only ones there -- Pootie Tang will definitely undergo a critical renaissance and re-evaluation as cult-film fans come to terms with its comedic genius. The John Cage-inspired silent pop hit alone is brilliant. Pootie Tang, like Dude, Where's My Car? works on a level of absurdity that requires letting go your I'm-going-to-go-see-a-'good'-film expectations to embrace. It's a series of bizarre, over-the-top situations, strung together by a comic-book plot (not a bad thing), and enlivened by some lovable characters, like Biggie Shorty and Trucky. And how can you not laugh when 10-year-old heartbreaker Pootie gets his Big Wheel thrown out the window by the lady he just ran out on? The satire of corporate America is right up there with Omni Consumer Products in Robocop and Globo-Chem in Mr. Show. Lastly, if you must protest, I didn't understand anything he was saying!, then you must accept that the point flew right past your thick-ass skull. Sa da tay! "},{"Title":"So bad, its not just good... its great.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang makes the SNL-spinoff films look even worse than they were. Why? Because this is a spinoff of a cable-only HBO show (Chris Rock Show) that had a much smaller following, and the skits with Pootie Tang were far less frequent than Wayne's World. And its much funnier than any SNL spinoff... unless you include Animal House.Why make a movie? 'Cause Pootie's schtick works. Sa da tay!I'm a mid-20s (read late 20s) white boy from Philly. I'm sure I'm the cream of the crop when it comes to the Chris Rock Show's white demographic. However, I found it interesting... on opening night, when I saw the film, it was my best friend, myself, and our two girlfriends. The women didn't think it was nearly as funny as we did. Then again, they didn't throw a few back before we saw the film. The rest of the theater was completely empty.Regardless, I picked up the DVD, and this ranks up towards the top of my so good its bad / i can't put my thumb on why its so funny list. His grammar, the way he speaks, instantly made him a hero of mine as my mother is an English grammar teacher. (I'm sure by the amount of run on sentences and bad structure I've used in the review, my mother would slap my wrist.)I'm managed to say nothing about the plot, the acting, or anything else about the film. Why? Because there is none. However, if you want a good laugh, if you're a Chris Rock fan, or you enjoy Wanda Sykes on the Chris Rock show, see this. Wanda Sykes is the funniest woman in America and highly under-appreciated.So rent it - its well worth the three bucks for a late night laugh-a-thon or a modern Blackula turned superhero type flick. On my black comedy list, let's just say its much closer to Fear of a Black Hat than Booty Call.Don't expect Chris Rock to be the star, however - his parts are hilarious, but his supporting cast from his show really shines through. And, goddammit, I want Pootie's belt! And I'm down with his support of the Potie Codes. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  One of the best in the outright comedy genre. It never takes itself seriously, never tries to be more than it is.Lance Crouther's performance as Pootie is sublime. His deadpan approach is exactly the way Pootie needed to be played - just a cooler than cool guy who has a way with the ladies and a strong sense of right and wrong.This is a film that should have received more press and more marketing - some people will hate it, no doubt, but many more will love it. "},{"Title":"Best of 2002 - no joke","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This was probably one of the most enjoyable films of 2002 - seriously.  I watched it two times in a row I liked it so much.  Lance Crouther did a perfect job in the role of Pootie Tang.  Obviously this film was completely overlooked by the academy.  I was hoping they would create a Best Use of Yo Daddy's Belt/Bob Costas in a Film. "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is one of those movies that has only two possible reactions you will either think it's the worst piece of garbage you've ever seen, or one of the funniest movies you've ever seen.  In my case, I thought it was the second-funniest movie I'd ever seen, after Airplane!About a month ago, Pootie Tang was reviewed by my school newspaper, for a reason that's beyond me.  On its reccomendation, most of the senior class got together and watched Pootie Tang.  Although some of us hated it, I loved it - probably more than anyone else.  I had a stomach-ache for the majority of this movie due to laughing too hard - it was much like doing sit-ups for the duration of the movie.Now, I know this movie's detractors will say, How could this fool laugh at one joke for 80 minutes?  Simply put, I found more than 1 joke to it.  The idea of a gorilla attack at a steel mill funny.  The punchline, Yeah, and you know what else?  Pootie can kick some butt following a description of how Pootie will mail you a letter 10 days in advance of how he's going kick your butt, and when you get the letter, you say, 'What the heck is this?' Then Pootie shows up and kicks your butt and you still don't know what hit you funny.  Chris Rock dressed as a cob of corn funny.  Lance Crouther obsessively tending one single corn stalk funny.  And, one of the most amusing takes on Western fast-draw camera angles that's ever been done (it sure puts The Quick and the Dead to shame...)Basically, although Pootie Tang's a weird movie, it's got a great subtle humor to it, a humor that is underappreciated. "},{"Title":"Sa Da Tay My Namies","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Sine Da Tay on the Tippy TyePootie Tang biddies, Sa may NA!Seriously, even though I was the only white kid in the state of Michigan to see this movie, I thought it was the best film I've seen this year. For everyone out there that was expecting there to be some complex plot and respectable acting, well, you must have Signed on da Tippe Fay, Just say DAH!Pootie Tang is the only movie I laughed the whole way through. Most comedy movies in it's genre are funny for the first 30 minutes, then suck, and wind up with a 15 minute funny movie.Not Pootie Tang, Pootie Tang says What's up Nammy? Then steps it up with a little Runny on the Piddy Pay.Basically, if you are a complete Chach with a stick up your ass who is expecting a 100 million dollar Pearl Harbor movie, Pootie Tang will suck. But if you like ghetto movies that are thrown together like Clerks, this movie will Sine your Dibby. "},{"Title":"Ooooh, sepatown!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is hilarious, a must-see for anyone who appreciates a good comedy; for anyone who appreciates how difficult it is to make good comedy. I loved the idea that Pootie Tang's own language of nonsense syllables is understood by everyone--for example, SPOILER! the fact that his public service announcements are so effective.  The Dolemite-related aspect of the story is brilliant.  And the rest of the cast deserves praise, too, especially Jennifer Coolidge, who you'll remember from Best In Show, as an Ivana Trump-ish hideosity, and Wanda Sykes, as Biggie Shorty.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"It really made me laugh.","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Thing I never understood is that these sort of simplistic and silly comedies often get slammed, while movies from the early days of the genre (the Jim Abrahams and Leslie Nielsen type of comedies) are being loved and considered to be classics, even though the humor and comedy of the movies is just the same. For me it's very simple; when a comedy amuses me and makes me laugh I consider it to be a good and effective one, no matter how bad and silly the movie got done.It's just the sort of movie in which things simply just happen, without often share a clear connection with each other and without featuring a real solid or clear main-story. It's really simplistic, especially story-wise but lots of its moments are simply funny and therefor this movie does work out as a comedy.I really won't pretend like Pootie Tang is the greatest thing ever. It's often just too simplistic for that and it's story and acting is definitely too much lacking. but there is no denying that this movie simply serves its purpose and I definitely can say that this is a movie that genuinely made me laugh because of how silly and crazy it at times got. Still, at the same time it's also true that the movie doesn't quite live up to its full potential. I mean, the movie never really lives up to its great and promising beginning. But luckily the movie is too short to start to further decline, below the level of average.Still the funniest Chris Rock comedy I've seen in years.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sha da te and wah da tai, say no more!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  If you haven't seen films like I'm Gonna Get You Sucka, Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice In the Hood, Hollywood Shuffle, Dolemite, Black Belt Jones, Foxey Brown, or the like, you won't get this film at all.  If you're an uptight, stereotypical, WASP with a I love living in the suburbs mentality then I suggest you pass on this one. You just won't get it at all.  However, if you're able to have a laugh just for laughing's sake, and aren't a tight a$$, then this movie will make you burst out your sides.It's so silly that it's funny and that's what it was designed to be.  I mean come on, it's absolutely ridiculous, but again, meant to be!  It completely pokes fun at blaxploitation films of the 70's and the current overly hyped culture surrounding hip-hop/rap.  Just look at the music video at the beginning of the film, it's total take on the videos that artists like Puff Daddy make.  It's cheese and it is trying to let the masses (who can understand the point of the film) know that today's America is cheesy no matter what your cultural background.Even the 'urban' and 'cool' musical outlets have been so overly saturated by consumerism and have been so heavily exploited that even they have become tacky.  If anything, it's a great film for cultural ambiguity.  Through humor, and the realization that all cultures are equally weird and cheesy, we may be able to live a little more comfortably with one another.  Humor is a great tool for bringing people together and I think it's great that this film is at least trying to do that. "},{"Title":"Ima haveta say the nai-no to all da bammies","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  If you didn't like this movie, you just didn't get it.  While I can see how this movie might not appeal to everyone's sense of humor, I couldn't stop laughing.  I rented it and watched it three times with different groups of people and just about everyone loved it.  Pootie Tang's language is hilarious and then there were just those golden moment that make me laugh every time I think back on them (like when young Pootie is being thrown out by one of his adult women and she tosses his stuffed animals and big-wheel out the window).  I also, think Wanda Sykes was great as Biggie Shortie. I was never a big fan of hers before seeing this movie, but her dance scenes and dialogue kept the movie moving forward and gave you something else to laugh at so that the Pootie gags didn't wear thin.  There were a few scenes that I didn't really think were funny but, all in all, this movie was a great blaxploitation spoof.  Cole me down on da panny sty.... "},{"Title":"A little miracle","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  In this by-the-numbers summer movie season of 2001, here is, to quote Monty Python, something completely different. Satirizing black culture is not exactly politically correct, which makes it near-impossible for even black comics to pull off. This might be a Chris Rock Production, but Rock himself will tell you that POOTIE TANG is the brainchild of white writer/director Louis C.K., a fellow stand-up and writer on Rock's now-defunct Chris Rock Show. Pootie, like too much of hip-hop culture, is considered to be hipper-than-hip, from his garish clothing to his gibberish patois. (In a great swipe at the M.C. Hammers & Puff Daddys of the world, Pootie manages to top the charts with a song containing no lyrics or music. Cut to scenes of an eager listening public, glued to their radios, jamming to dead silence.)C.K. stretches the movie to about 70 minutes by making Pootie a Dolemite-style superhero, using (and mocking) the SUPERMAN II defeated-superhero cliche. Superman has x-ray vision; Pootie dispatches foes with the belt his father whupped him with. Superman's weakness is kryptonite; Pootie is rendered weak by hoes. (In his desperate hour of need, like Jor-El at the Fortress of Solitude, Pootie is counciled by his dead father, who he sees in a cornstalk.)If this seems like a series of in-jokes, it should. POOTIE is by no means a professional production; it's written, directed, and acted by a bunch of friends from the stand-up comedy and comedy-writing circuit. Anyone without an appreciation of that world may walk out of POOTIE scratching their head. Everyone else will be beaming and laughing throughout the movie, as I was. Stand-ups like Rock, Wanda Sykes, Dave Attell, Andy Richter, Conan O'Brien, Mario Joyner, and David Cross are all welcome sights. Bob Costas and Gwyneth Paltrow pop up in cameos, and Lance Crouther will no doubt enjoy the cult-hero status that his character, Pootie, does.After the dull summer pap of MUMMY RETURNS, PEARL HARBOR, TOMB RAIDER, and FAST & THE FURIOUS.....POOTIE TANG is a welcome breath of fresh air. These are our funniest young comedians and social satirists at work -- support them. Maybe you'll even get the joke. "},{"Title":"One you have to let simmer...","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" OK, so it's not the greatest. Watch it twice at minimum to get the full effect, just like Napoleon Dynamite. Excellent humor, Chris Rock is a f$#$ing GENIUS and needs to make way more movies. Maybe he could get Lance to come back for Tang 2 Hunt for Daddy's Belt. Then again, maybe he needs to stay away and focus on his stand up routine. In any event, this movie is a great time waster and one for the times when there really isn't much left to do. I can't think of another movie that made me laugh so much, once the point was made about Pootie's problem.Watch this with someone who has an open mind and doesn't mind laughing at stupidity. Entertaining people should be this easy in all movies. "}{"Title":"Once again, everyone is wrong about this brilliant film","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe you idiots missed the joke. This movie rules in so many ways! Watch it as many times as possible. I'll trade ANY SNL skit turned into a movie over almost any popular new releases out of Hollywood. This is stupid, but It's GREAT. This movie is better than so many serious comedy's that have been churning out of the scrap heap. I can watch this over and over again. Totally stupid in the best possible way and so redeeming.Look for Dave Attell. The good jokes are by Chris Rock. The bad jokes are by that lame white guy he wrote it with, but it's still great. Anyone who didn't enjoy this film should check their pulse. Tell someone to watch this great movie.  "},{"Title":"Tippi Tai on My Capatown","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This was a funny, slightly insane little spoof. Enjoyable film that also allows you to learn a new vocabulary, I just wish there were translations. Pootie Tang is our hero, he is the biggest superstar in the world. However, evil corporate America is out to ruin him, because he is too good. Chris Rock lends some help along with David Cross and several other talented comedians. However, Lance Crouther (Pootie Tang) is the real star here. Although not a big budget film by any means, it contained a lot of big laughs. It is not meant to be that deep so don't treat it like it is supposed to. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"~~Original~~~","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Everyone needs a hero! Pootie Tang has it's moments...and a lot of them. Chris Rock picked out a good cast for this one. If you like to watch a movie that makes you laugh and say I can't believe what I just saw this movie is right up your ally. Not giving this movie a chance and watching just enjoy yourself...you are missing out on something. It's just a movie to get away from the norm...and it does that in the right ways! Watch for yourself....This movie isn't for everyone...just people who have an open mind for comedy. If you are liking off the way funny things to watch and having things that you don't expect happen this movie is for you. This movie has all the right ideas for good and off the wall time. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie!!! Sada-Tay!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of my new all time favorites. I didn't see it in the theaters, but I wish I did. It's definitely not for everyone (you have to posses a sense of humor!) The acting is great, the editing just adds to the fun. If you didn't find this movie funny, there is something seriuosly wrong with you. I must say, just reading some of the other reviews made me laugh, especially the ones that say they didn't like this movie because you can't understand what Pootie is saying(duh! that's the point!) But at least I can see that, of the people that get it, they got it. Do your self a favor and see this movie at whatever cost, you will enjoy it!*********** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Fun stuff! - 6 of 10","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is a very fun movie that cannot be taken seriously.  I laughed at many aspects of this film and so should you.  It should be taken lightly and with a zest for fun.  I'll enjoy this film every time I see it and I suspect it will last a long while as a cult classic.  Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Pootie Tang AKA Dolemite Lives","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  For those of you put off by the comments below, of which a large percentage are rather negative, well don't go see it.  If some of teh good revies below don't make you want to see it either, don't go see it.  I'm not surprised Pootie Tang isn't a big hit, but don't expect it to fall off the face of the earth.  It probably will, for about ten years, but then it'll be back.My rationale behind this is that this movie is shades, more than just shades, it's practically a sequel, of the ridiculous Rudy Ray Moore movies of the seventies, including Dolemite and Disco Godfather.  In the former, Moore played Dolemite, a successful standup comic (Created in his own standup act) who is also a pimp and crimefighter in his spare time.  Pootie Tang is a character created by Louis C.K. with actor Lance Crother, who is a successful hip hop artist, who is also a ladies man and a crimefighter in his spare time.  See what I'm talking about?There are more similarities.  Each film is low budget, and often quite amateurish.  Both films are made by people who obviously don't have all the mechanics of filmmaking down (Dolemite's boom mike pops into shots so much it might as well have gotten a supporting cast credit, Pootie Tang features possibly THE WORST narration in the history of film).  Both also have quite a bit of social satire, plus additional humor derived from the sheer stupidity of the filmmaking.Pootie Tang is, in itself, a bad idea for a movie.  Who wants to watch 80 minutes of a character who speaks in gibberish?  It's a joke that's funny for 3 minutes on the Chris Rock Show, but grows very old after an hour and a half (The audience I was with was hysterical...for ten minutes.  Eventually half walked out).  There are some jokes that work (I liked Pootie's new hit single, and also the tense climactic standoff between Pootie and Dirty) but a lot of other material doesn't (Cameos by Andy Ricter and David Cross are totally wasted).  Plus the movie doesn't know if it's a movie, a movie clip, a friend retelling something, or what.  It has a bad sense of pacing and flow (Using little Batman-esque cut scenes to break stuff up) and at least a dozen head-scratch-inducing moments.For all of these reasons, the movie will be back.  Mark my words.  People a decade from now will watch this movie and laugh at its lame bits, and also the smart ones.  For the average viewer, it's not worth seeing.  For the devoted follower of movies that are bizarre, inexplicable, and just plain silly, it might be the best out-there movie of the year. "},{"Title":"You All Have Got To Be Kidding!!!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe how many of you thought this movie was good!  It made absolutely no sense.  What was so funny about it?   I watched this video alone and still felt embarrassed at how dumb this was. It was one of those movies where you say to yourself WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?!!, WERE THEY HIGH?! specifically, Chris Rock, he could have done a lot better than this garbage.  "},{"Title":"Stupidly funny...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was really hilarious. The movie shows off so many out of place characters and events that it's stupid not to laugh. The performance of all of the characters was OK though Chris Rock was not that funny. The movie could have been a bit better if it was longer and the laughs were to be distributed through the whole movie. Anyway if want to laugh your ass of for about an hour go see Pootie Tang. Sa Da Tay...  "},{"Title":"God wept","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Louis C.K conceived of the story which would become Pootie Tang on Long Island, where man, in the person of a crew of Dutch sailors, was placed face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for wonder. That was in the spring of 1924. He wrote most of it, though, in a villa above St. Raphaël on the Riviera, with Roman and Romanesque aqueducts within sight, and beneath a skyline that reminded him of Shelley's Eugenean Hills. There was a beach where he swam daily, and came to know a group of young French naval aviators. Otherwise, he worked steadily at what he jokingly spoke of to friends as a script better than any script written in America. By late October the script was ready to be mailed to Maxwell Perkins, his editor at Scribner's.He knew very well that Pootie Tang was far finer than anything he had attempted before. In April, on the eve of his departure for Europe, he told his limo driver I cannot let it go out unless it has the very best I am capable of in it or even as I feel sometimes, something better than I am capable of. He would not be alone in that feeling; many would say that the novel possessed the Fitzgerald glamor, but also a kind of mystic atmosphere at times. They may have been remembering C.K's words in that April letter So in my new script I'm thrown directly on purely creative work&#151;not trashy imaginings as in my stories but the sustained imagination of a sincere yet radiant world. "},{"Title":"Either the worst film of all time... or the 5th worst. i can't decide.","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This is either the worst film in cinematic history&#x85; or the 5th worst film in cinematic history&#x85; I can't decide.What it most definitely is &#x96; is a casting call of stand up comedians and it musicians from Hip-America&#x85;Put more simply If the following names mean nothing or near-nothing to you avoid this film at all costs, as in reality name recognition has all this film has going for it;Dave AttellTodd BarryLouis C.K.David CrossMissy ElliottPrince PaulChris RockWanda SykesThis is a vanity project financed by nothing more than the pull of sheer weight of name numbers &#x96; even though after Rock's name the Pull power drops away dramatically.Read what you want into the above statement but I unequivocally stand behind it. This film had no chance to exist were it not for whoever green lit it's desire to not p*ss off Rock and co.Tang is some guy who talks in his own unfunny unique lingo &#x96; powered by a magic belt &#x96; he is a smooth-movin, bullet dodgin' super-cool good guy. Tang is a magnetic presence, a 100% proof chick magnet, every guy's best friend and an eternally &#x96; if inexplicably popular &#x96; marketing symbol, hugely influential and always on the side of what is good and right.EVERYONE loves them some Tang&#x85; but especially Biggy Shorty (Wanda Sykes) &#x96; a woman who is mos-def NOT a ho, even though she dances on street corners to unseen musical sources alongside prostitutes whilst scantily clad.The key plot-point is triggered when Tang has his reputation and image tarnished when he appears to side with big (naughty) business to endorse damaging products such as hard liquor and cigarettes, things he was previously known to abhor.He immediately steps away from the spotlight and all society seems to go to hell, with myriad Pootie-alikes stepping in to fill his endorsement and spokesman void &#x96; all seemingly hell-bent to hawk sh*t he wouldn't have previously gone anywhere near.()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()Before I tap another key I might point out that even if one microbe of this sounds amusing it really isn't. The only time I chuckled was when Pootie released a single that featured nothing but silence, only to universal acclaim and chart success &#x96; though I immediately castigated myself.Despite comedians I absolutely love this is a laugh-free zone, something I would have thought impossible without watching it myself &#x96; twice.Look. If you think characters called Bad Bitty and Dirty Dee (a guy so-called because he revels in being unsanitary) are funny then there might be something here just for you&#x85;&#x85;If you think a man orphaned by a freak gorilla incident spouting nonsensical dialogue &#x96; a prime example being See, my damie, Pootie Tang don't wa-da-tah to the shama-cow&#x85;, then you might have a ball with this. Aside from that the most notable thing I can point out is the presence of a young surgery free Kristin Bell, and I ain't talking' about her chesticles, her face has had a lot of work since this flick.Final Rating &#x96; 3 / 10. The various elements and names suggest there should be much to note&#x85; if not love, the 80 minutes on show dispute this&#x85; indisputably. "}{"Title":"So stupid, it's hilarious","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Pootie Tang has been on HBO for awhile now and every time it's on, I usually watch it unless there's better movies on. I just think this movie is so stupid, that it's just drop down hilarious. Lance Crouther who plays Pootie Tang is hilarious with those great and memorable lines such as Wad a ta. Other characters were really funny too such as the sheriff and Dirty Dee. The film is not great in any way and is so forgettable, it's not even funny, but like I said it's on HBO a lot, so you can't really forget it. Overall, a funny film with hilarious lines and great flash scenes of Pootie like what they did on Austin Powers. I recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 7.5/10 *** B- "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with Pootie","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I have seen this movie about 7 times in only one year - my husband thinks it is the best film ever made and therefore is always inviting people round to watch it. Usually I would get sick of a movie if I had to watch it so much yet I still manage to sit through Pootie Tang each time and laugh. My favourite bit is the lady who drinks out of the saucer of milk. Man I hope she got some kind of award for that mad screaming fit. Having never seen Saturday Night Live, or whatever it was that Pootie Tang started out on, we didn't know what to expect - this may add to why we find it great, we had nothing to measure it against. It is just such a bizarre concept that you can't help but find it funny (oh yeah, actually lots of people don't find it funny, but they should lighten up). Sa-dah tay! "},{"Title":"Too cool for stiffs","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Yes it is idiotic and yes it is hilarious.  Typical of cult classics, the voting histogram for this movie is bipolar indicating a huge dependency on comedic taste.  I guess this is the logical consequence for movies not trying to appeal to a broad market.  If you are one to enjoy low brow humor typical of Fletch or I'm gonna get you sucka, you'll enjoy this. Great in your face sound track. "},{"Title":"Cracked me up","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I am as big a fan of the Citizen Kanes of this world as the next movie buff, but when it comes to comedies, I am a soft target. The only expectation I have of comedies is that they make me laugh. Pootie Tang did, and that's all I can ask of it. I have to say that I would not have paid money to see it, but when it came on cable here, I was bored and there was nothing else on. I took a chance and laughed myself senseless! I am a big fan of blaxploitation films (everything from Sweet sweet back's bad ass song to superfly and Truck Turner) and of blaxploitation send-ups. Yes, the production values in Pootie Tang were amateurish, but that can be said for most cult classics. Unlike so much of the usual over-budgeted, over-produced, test-audience-sanitised Hollywood c**P, it was fresh, funny and to-the-point. My favorite scenes include the 'cleansing' of Dirty D, Biggy Shorty (every scene) and Chris Rock as the corn cob. Sa da Tay!! Ooooh Sepatown. (yes, I am easily amused- I laughed every time the word Fokker was mentioned in Meet the Parents. God help me when the sequel comes out!)  "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies ever created. Pootie Tang, a city hero for his ability to always make the right decisions and be a role model for kids, uses his magic (watch the movie for an explanation for the quotes) belt to thwart away villains trying to get him to sign a deal with a drug and junk food endorsing company that would ruin his image. All the while, he picks up friends and girlfriends (including the sometimes-but-not-in-this-film annoying Wanda Sykes and Chris Rock) while speaking a language that no one understands. Whenever Pootie whips out his belt, comedy ensues and anyone watching the movie will laugh hard. I would not be surprised to see this on AMC an TCM in a few years. Should have won Best Picture Oscar for 2001  "},{"Title":"just a funny movie","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  it's funny. what can i say. people say its stupid its not funny blah blah blah. screw them the movies hilarious. rent it. then think about how funny a sequal would be. I'm thinkin bout making a musical sequal. all out straight up musical for the screen. it be amazing. dont lie to yourself it would be amazing, youdd love it. pootie tang singing a song with all his made up words, please! that be just freakin crazy.  "},{"Title":"A cult classic!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Some folks just don't get Pootie Tang. And if you haven't seen some of the black classics it will be impossible to appreciate the humor of this wonderful film - part parody, part tribute and right on target. "},{"Title":"for all my tippy tais...wha da tay","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie..don't let the negative reviews mislead you into thinking otherwise!! A hilarious spoof on 70's blacksploitation flicks with a superb cast that will leave your sides hurting. Lance Crouther plays the super-fly Pootie Tang to campy perfection, and Wanda Sykes plays Biggie Shorty with pure comic genius! If you're a fan of movies like I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, Hollywood Shuffle, and Undercover Brother you will love this movie!! Sa Da Tay! "},{"Title":"A Required Viewing","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I was Pootie unexperienced, until I saw this on HBO. I had to see it two more times after that, and I still think it is probably the funniest movie ever made. People who don't think it is all that funny probably were not fully formed thinkers during the 80s and 90s, so in that respect you do have to have some inkling about culture to enjoy this movie. Lance Crouther is incredible, and I hope to enjoy this movie again soon. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic!!!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Either you love this movie or hate it. The writer/director deserves an Oscar or Nobel Prize or something. Its plot and subject matter is obscure and it is bizarre in its humour. Kind of like to black comedy what Monty Python was to English comedy. This movie is definitely an acquired taste. I love it and can watch it endlessly. It is definitely a cult classic. Don't Sleep! "}{"Title":"I laughed my pants off!!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much, I even laughed about it while on the way to work.  I would personally think that this is one of those movies that you either love or hate.  I loved it!  It is incredibly silly but that is almost what is so funny.  The belt that he uses as a gun, the silly lines, the dancing woman...  The kind of humour in this film wouldn't have been out of place in the Kentucky Fried movie.20% gave it a 10 and a similar amount gave it only 1 !!  Like I said, you'll love it or hate it.  I'm buying this on DVD!! "},{"Title":"Uneven, Unpolished But Very Funny.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, this movie looks as if it was filmed and directed by a first year film student but this is one funny movie if you give it a chance. Lance Crouther brings his character from THE CHRIS ROCK SHOW to the big screen. And while stretching a 5 minute TV routine into a feature film can sometimes be disastrous (most SNL spin-offs are proof of that) this is one of the few exception (the WAYNE'S WORLD and the first BLUES BROTHERS movies come to mind). So if you're looking for a good leave-your-brain-at-the-door movie, you just might enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Fall-down funny musical comedy; there is genius here","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  If only the third Austin Powers movie had been one-quarter this funny! This movie is full of the same magical musical-comedy energy that infused the Swinging London opening of the original Man of Mystery. Much of THAT magic came courtesy of 70s Funk master George Clinton. As a forty-something white guy who owns maybe one hip-hop album (Arrested Development -- I think they still count)I don't even KNOW who the artists are here. I'm definitely NOT the target audience here. Yet I found the music and choreography in POOTIE TANG just as irresistible as the physical comedy.What we have here is more than an infectiously silly comedy. It's also a damn fine musical! I've been worried about the movie musical lately (albeit I haven't yet seen CHICAGO.) The high praise heaped on last year's grooveless, graceless MOULIN ROUGE put me into a deep depression. POOTIE TANG gave me back my hope!Call me crazy, but I see a line of descent from Busby Berkeley to Astaire & Rogers to this. SINGING IN THE RAIN, PURPLE RAIN and ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS are also links in that chain. Maybe POOTIE doesn't fit the strict definition of a musical-comedy -- it's more a comedy-musical or a comedy with music. But it has the SPIRIT and MUSICALITY of my favorite musicals -- two qualities entirely lacking in Luhrmann's heartless cacaphony.Sa-da-tay, POOTIE TANG -- you have restored my will to live! Now that I know the movie musical will make it to the middle of the century, I have decided it just might be worth it to hang around. "},{"Title":"Pootie Tang's my Dayme! Sah Dah Tay.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Unpolished? Perhaps.  But funny and smart.  There's a piousness about the movie that you'll recognize from some of Chris Rock's stand-up, but it works.  It's a about a black action hero named Pootie Tang, who beats criminals and evil corporate execs with a belt, the way their daddies should've.  It's sketch comedy that wants to be a comic book but settles for a movie and is still really, REALLY funny.  Some of the editing is terrible and throws off the timing, and some of the material should've been cut, but it's STILL outrageously funny.  See this movie if only for Biggie Shorty (Wanda Sykes), and don't you dare think she's a ho!If you liked this movie, see Sandy on her Birthday (1980) if you can find it (good luck).  I saw a screening yesterday and sorry Wanda, but Sandy's got Biggie beat, any day. "},{"Title":"most underrated","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang seems to rub a few people the wrong way but there is a certain type of mind (mine and my friends among the highest on the list) who see the freshness, originality, and timeliness of this movie and just fall madly in love with it.  it's quickly becoming a huge cult thing if you travel in the right circles.  it's almost like the secret handshake when it comes up in conversation that someone else has seen it and loved it.  if you know what you're looking for and how to watch it, this is one of the smartest and most precise movies to come along in an awfully long time.  it is of a spirit which i really hope will come to define early twenty-first century filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Over the top","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  The message is cool and somehow points the finger at the way people get stupidly famous, specially in that scene where Pootie Tang releases a record. It even has its moments. But the movie is too low-rating for my taste, and its running time is just about a tad over the top. But anyhow, there is some level of achievement here, and that shouldn't be overlooked.  "},{"Title":"Somehow it is good.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Not being a fan of most modern comedies I wasn't sure what to make of Pootie Tang, but was more than happy with what I saw when the film came to an end.  Film contains a great many cameos by a great many talented, modern comedians.  Chris Rock is surprisingly hilarious, and this is his best film roll by far.  Very well directed by Mr. CK, in an indulgent sort of way, but for this particular film I don't think that it could be properly made any other way.  There were points in the film where I would get slightly bored, but then, some strangeness would come along and twist the plot once again.  Pootie Tang is a true mystery of a film character, he even has his own language!  The supporting cast and effective use of Rap and Hip Hop music also make this film much better than what it normally would have been.In an era where there are one too many Prep School snob comedies and pointless gross-out epics, it is nice to a see a little pure imagination and genuine strangeness on the screen.  This film reminds me of the Tom Green success Freddy Got Fingered, because both features offer pure artistic expression without regard to playing to a specific audience or censoring their respective projects in any way.Watch Pootie Tang at least once... "},{"Title":"I'm gonna sign your pity on the runny kind! capa-town!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  the movie was so good, i was on the floor laughing while I was waiting for the elevator. the thing is that no one knows what you're laughing about because it doesn't make any sense. sa-dah-tay! the best parts were the part in the beginning with the heartbroken women yelling at him, then tossing the bigwheel out of the window... and of course, biggie shorty is my idol. i want to groove like that. just cause a woman wants to dress up fancy and hang out by the whores doesn't mean she's hooking. *thwack!* "},{"Title":"Sa Da Tay!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I just caught this movie on cable last night.  I was expecting it to be horrible, but found myself laughing quite a bit!  There ARE some really stupid parts and jokes that just fall flat (the whole Dirty D thing was just bad), but there was plenty here that made me laugh.  Something about Pootie's nonsense talk just makes me laugh every time he opens his mouth.  Not the best comedy ever, but not too shabby! "},{"Title":"If you don't like Pootie Tang, then I feel bad for you.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  People who don't love this movie have no joy in their lives and deserve our pity.  Everything is really well done - the acting, the writing, even the editing!  Don't confuse it with some dumb Saturday Night Live spin-off movie like The Ladies' Man.  You might as well buy it since you're gonna rent it a thousand times anyway! "}{"Title":"Excellent film - but not for everyone - BEWARE of MISSY ELLIOT","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"      Reading other reviews on this site I can understand why some people may not enjoy this type of film. I personally was planning on forcing myself to watch it, just so I could say I lived through the experience. It was never a movie I wanted to see, and my friends and I actually used 'Pootie Tang' as a punch-line to many of our jokes, referring to it as an absolute piece of garbage. I was shocked at how good it was.     I am not a Chris Rock fan and went into this ready to hate it. It shattered my low expectations in the first 2 minutes - what an outstanding opening sequence! It is mindless fun, using over-exaggerated stereotypes and fun action sequences. Who cares that we can't understand a word of Pootie's dialogue? We can still interpret his message by the reaction other characters have to him. I was seriously considering giving the movie a 9/10, but the appearance of Missy Elliot lowered it to an 8. So this is a warning to everyone - MISSY ELLIOT is in this film. I was forced to look away from the screen and cover my head, as the sight of her face and the sound of her voice gives me dry heaves. She makes me physically ill. So, I still gave the movie an 8/10 DESPITE her presence in the film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Pootie Tang is my Main Damie","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is absurdist humor at its best. Nothing about it really makes any sense at all. As I can see from the comments on here, most people didn't like that, but that is the point. It is obvious that Louis CK and company did everything they could to make sure this film didnt make a lick of sense. And boy howdy did it work. This movie has broken down a room full of grown men into tears of laughter on numerous occasions, thanks to the magic of DVD. The trick to loving this movie is expecting nothing because that is what it gives you. But I am certain if you go in with that mind-set, you will die with laughter. Sepatown! "},{"Title":"I didn't know what to expect","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is very funny. I thought that it was good because it was well written and the actors were great. The person that plays Pootie Tang is very good and it starts the movie off well. The movie is about how corporate America can take over anything including a person's name. I think that this point is quite true but they seem to be able to get it across in a light-hearted manner. I gave this movie a 10 because it made me laugh and it gave me hope for movies. "},{"Title":"Fun has a new name...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  And that name is Pootie Tang.  This movie totally ruled.  It was completely ridiculous, didn't make sense at points, but it never stopped being funny. All the flashback scenes when Pootie Tang is 9 years old are unbelievable. Imagine if Buckwheat grew up to be Master P and you'll have a good idea of who Pootie Tang truly is.  Plus, you get a great soundtrack and film music by Prince Paul -- could you ask for anything more? "},{"Title":"kaboom","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang - lets face it, Pootie is too cool. The problem is, this movie is a bomb that wishes it was as funny as Blankman or Meteor Man, which were only moderately funny at best anyway. Same 'comedian writes a superhero spoof' premise, but just not enough jokes to hold the story together. If you haven't seen a one star film this year, go watch it so you'll appreciate the twos more. I'm Gonna Get You Sucka minus 50% of the jokes and the ones left are half as funny. Lance Crouther could have broken out with his performance and of course Pootie Tang's wardrobe and baby blue 'Vette, but the story just came up weak.  "},{"Title":"Why such a bomb?","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  You know with movies like The Fast And The Furious, which besides all the nifty keen effects is pretty much a waste of film making over 100 million dollars, WHY WHY WHY did this movie bomb so bad? It really surprised me since I remember overhearing, yeah did you see that commercial for Pootie tang, yeah that looks funny.. yada yada. Well I went to see this movie last night and I busted out laughing every few minutes and sometimes laughing for a few minutes. And I wasn't the only one in the theatre laughing. Yes, this movie is completely stupid and low budget, but that's what is so great about it. It doesn't try to be a multi-million dollar blockbuster, it's modern black exploitation in the line of I'm gonna git you sucka. And speaking of git you sucka, I'd rather see Pootie tang ten more times then have to sit through the it could have made a real funny 30 minute tv show scary movie 2 again.  "},{"Title":"A lot smarter than it sounds","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is a film written and directed by Louis C.K., who is one of the smartest, funniest standup comics/comedy writers working today. He's won many Emmys and Emmy nominations writing for the Chris Rock show, the Dana Carvey show and Late Night with Conan O'Brien. Pootie is  NOT  one of those dumb gross-out kid comedies. If anything, it's more like an African-American Austin Powers. This film is not perfect, but the actors and characters are great, a lot of the scenes and ideas are great, and Louis C.K. made this film from the heart. You should go to this film first because it's funny, second because we have to show studios that they should give people like Louis C.K. money to make films.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of 2001!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is one of those movies that makes you feel better after watching it. It's got everything a good comedy needs. Such as a good plot, good characters, and best of allgood acting.Pootie Tang is about an an actor/singer/martial arts star named Pootie Tang who speakshalf English and half gibberish,yet somehow everyone can understand him.The movie is based on a skit from The Chris Rock Show, and unlike other spinoff SNL movies; this is just as good as the skit itself. This year, there have been some pretty bad comedies, but Pootie Tang rises above them all. "},{"Title":"Much funnier than AI","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Louis C.K., writer and director of Pootie Tang, is a great stand-up comedian who put a lot of himself into this movie.  If you are familiar with his stand-up, his work on the Chris Rock Show, Late Night with Conan O'Brien, or the Late Show with David Letterman, you will love it.  There are also a lot of cameos in it by comedians, which are nice surprises throughout the movie. Highly recommended.  And remember, as Pootie says, Sine your pitty on the runny kine! "},{"Title":"Pootie Tang is PooTerrific!!!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The story is about Pootie Tang, a crime fighter and icon loved by both adults and children. After his defiance of the corporate world, his enemies try to bring him down by taking his special belt from his father, and stopping his positive commercials. Luckily, Pootie Tang with the help of his supporting friends gain back his belt and his power to stop evil. I personally thought that the first 10 minutes was one of the best scenes I have ever watched in a movie. I recommend this movie for anyone who needs a good laugh.  "}{"Title":"hey ya'll was popping'?!?!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I understand that this movie didn't really have a plot, but it was so hilarious that i really didn't care! Pootie was like the black super man.My favorite character in this whole movie was Wanda Sykes as Biggie Shorty.She gave hoes all over the world a new self confidence!!!The only thing in the whole movie that i really didn't understand was how Dirty Dee got out of jail? Did he wait out his time or did the unbelievably sexy froggy bail him out? Well for all you Pootie haters all i have to say is SADATAY and if you don't like it I WILL SIGN YO PITY ON DA RUNNY KIND! Pootie Tang was one of the best movies ever! For all you pootie lovers out there hit me back with your response.For everyone who hates Pootie I Don't Care!!!!  "},{"Title":"I can't stop laughing at this movie.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  When I seen the commecial's for this movie before it hit theaters it looked really stupid,but one day i was flipping through the channels on t.v. and started watching it because i could not find anything good. When i started to watch it I could not stop beacause it is so funny. They do and say so much crazy stuff that you can't help but laugh. If you are looking for a laugh you will love this movie especially the main character pootie tang.  "},{"Title":"The ultimate movie for kookie friends.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I saw Pootie Tang with friends at a local theater. Easily put...people walked out!! I couldn't believe it, because my friends and I found it to be one of the funniest movies we had ever seen. Since then, with new friends, I have shared the wonder of Pootie Tang, and we just can't seem to get enough of it!! With its one-liners constantly repeated among us and hilarious out-takes...Pootie Tang is a classic in our group. It all depends on what type of humor you have I guess, but I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Say sa da tay and feel OK!","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Let's just say this right off the bat this movie isn't a movie. It's basically just a hodgepodge of material that was cobbled together into something similar to a movie. I'd say the ratio of what's funny to what's not in it is about 31. The middle of the movie falls flat, sure but there's so much funny stuff in it that you've gotta love what's there. There's things that leave you scratching your head, wondering just why they were put in there. For instance, there's a bad guy called Dirty Dee because he's really dirty. Like dusty dirty. Like when he claps his hands, dust flies off of his coat dirty. My personal favorite moment comes during the credit sequence. Right after Pootie tells the girl in the music studio that he's gonna sine her pitty on the runny kine she screams in frenzied ecstasy. Then they show some blonde girl in a junkyard wearing a dirty white dress screaming her head off. I don't know why but every time I see this, it kills me. There's a lot of other stuff that's really funny here. I loved Wanda Sykes (Macarena big! Girls in bikini thongs, big!). Chris Rock as Pootie's father was downright hilarious (SNAP!!! Don't slurp your soup in here, boy!) David Cross is in it for like four minutes and if you blink you'll miss him. Any movie that has someone whooping ass with a belt gets a favorable review from me. If you watch the movie without looking for amazing comedy from the gods, you'll appreciate what it has to offer. I wanna write more but watch it for yourself and see. That's my panny, dee! Rating *** out of *****. (another notable scene watch for the lady screaming for Pootie with the blue shirt and the black bra underneath, which she reveals when she rips her shirt open. If she doesn't make you laugh when you see her, turn the movie off, there's no hope. Capachow!)   "},{"Title":"See this film as proof that God hates us all.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Isn't 79 minutes supposed to make a pathetically short movie?  I rented Pootie Tang, which is of that running time, and I thought The Patriot was shorter than this.  I guess it's just Einstein's theory of relativity at it's best.  Magnolia and Mulholland Drive are over in fifteen minutes while Freddy Got Fingered and *this* lump of trash last for days and days on end.Pootie Tang was made in association with Chris Rock.  This, and Down to Earth just go to show that the guy can be funny in a movie, just keep him away from the typewriter and the checkbook.  Pootie Tang is to unfunny as David Lee Roth was to leather pants.  I only laughed once during this puddle of moose vomit, and that was during a point where the incomprehensible Pootie Tang himself didn't say a word.  I thought that was his shtick.There is one extremely high point in this movie, though.  During a stock footage montage, Pootie Tang is standing next to Gwyneth Paltrow-YES, Gwyneth Paltrow.  What is she doing here?  Shouldn't she be working on something with Soderbergh, or Scorsese, or even John Landis?  She won an Oscar for Shakespeare in Love, I hardly see Pootie Tang as the next logical step.  This is a moment of surrealism that would make the ghost of Luis Bunuel himself disperse with envy.*1/2 out of 4  "},{"Title":"Wah da tay!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"     If the idea of a character that combines the talents of Buckwheat, Austin Powers, and Shaft appeals to you, then you will find something to like about Pootie Tang. Forget the fact that the movie is silly and extremely basic in plot, the story of this modern-day inner-city African-American untouchable super hero is funny, and on a elementary level, it even gets some socio-political digs in too.    The movie is only 70 minutes long, but it manages to take shots at corporate America, some black stereotypes, and society's habit of unrestrained hero worship. I was tempted to label the movie dumb, but given these little angles, it's obvious that there was some cleverness at work behind the scenes.    And I laughed. Maybe I love absurdity more than the next person (hence my dissonant 7/10 rating), but I found most of this little gem to be hilarious. Pootie's dialect, his walk/strut, his bullet-dodging, his belt whipping fighting technique, all of it was so tongue-in-cheek funny that it's hard not to get a kick out of it.     Here's a test if you're not sure about the flick Picture a man promoting his new movie called Sine Your Pitty on the Runny Kine. (What does that mean? Who knows? Who cares?) It stars Froggy, Dirty Dee, Biggy Shorty, Trucky, JB, Lacey, and... Robert Vaughn.    If you don't find this at least mildly amusing, you probably won't like the movie, it's a simple as that.    I hope you don't have to say the nay-no for this flick, because you'd be missing out on the tappy-tai in the sepatown?  "},{"Title":"Not deserving of your $8","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I personally couldn't believe people would ever make a movie like this, let alone have it be released in theaters.  With so many famous comedians in the cast such as Chris Rock, Dave Attel, and Wanda Sykes, how could a movie turn out so badly?  99% of the movie was just plain unfunny and stupid.  I sat there throughout the whole movie thinking Could this movie get any worse? And unbelievably, it would get worse!  The only redeeming quality of this movie is that it's only 80 mins.  If it were any longer I probably would've walked out.   Do not go see this movie, unless your cousin is in it or something like that.   "},{"Title":"Not good.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  For the first five minutes of the movie, I was enjoying myself.  The crime fighting of Pootie Tang was actually funny, something right out of Dolemite. As soon as that scene ended, though, the laughs came to a screeching halt. I can't really point to a single reason (or even a vague idea) as to why the movie wasn't funny.  It simply wasn't.  If the movie was only 5 minutes long, I would have enjoyed it.  In my opinion, though, it was about an hour and 15 minutes too long. "},{"Title":"Pootie is as Pootie does...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I try to avoid...no...well, Pootie Tang was honestly the last flick on my list of movies to watch (actually it wasn't even on the list...), but I did watch it when I'd seen everything else on the tube.  This is probably the only way I would recommend it because it is far from even the middle of the road for popular film.Of course Pootie Tang is not a movie that should be approached like anything other than the Three Stooges or something similar, because its just plain stupid humor, that will likely stick with you for long after the Pootie Tang experience.  If you can leave it like that, you'll likely laugh and shake your head at some of the goofy humor and be calling your friends Pootie and snickering for days (or maybe just me...), otherwise, you could regret the Pootie Tang exposure.  Just be forewarned.This isn't Memento, and from a comedic point-it isn't even close to mainstream like American Pie or Meet the Parents, but if you can just spare Pootie a moment of your time...  "},{"Title":"Great sketch, bad movie","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  In the tradition of all of the lame SNL movies, this is another in a long line of films based on short sketches that tries, and fails, to stretch about 5 minutes of good material into a (barely) full-length motion picture. It just doesn't work. The movie's first scene is hilarious, and if that is where this overdrawn bit ended, it would be an unqualified success. Unfortunately, the audience is subjected to over an hour more of this same joke over and over again until one forgets entirely about the raucous opening sequence. This should have never left the Chris Rock Show. "}{"Title":"Please shoot me in the face and rape my body!","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" First off. Sorry for my bad English, i'll do my bestThis movie was so bad that it would be more painless to die screaming from testicular cancer in a smelly cellar on a cold Monday morning than have to sit through this crap. I was sitting there, hoping that a piece of airplane debris would crash through the roof of my house and kill me. I rented it at the local Blockbuster with two friends and we were like Oh yeah, a black comedy, and it has Chris Rock in it, oh boy oh boy, we cant WAIT to see this one..... wrong.. WORNG !! Worst movie EVER! next to EPIC MOVIE, SUPERHERO MOVIE, DATE MOVIE etc. etc. Za Tah Day my ass you weird looking mother******..! "},{"Title":"Great Addition In A Small Movie !","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" That was good indeed as a sarcastic little movie where the new stars of the modern American pop culture have been smartly spoofed. Still the cleverest thing they added in that subject's history was the hero's loss of language as important evidence of the degeneration between the person and person's mind; whereas language is an intermediary which the relationship between humans and their mind differs according to the level of that intermediary. So imagine a society has no relationship of that kind at all ! Now all the people is listening to the big nothing, regarding how the most of the modern culture's production is presenting nonsense (movies, songs, sitcoms ..etc). It became all about entertainment and by the most trite, inane and vacuous ways. Therefore when somebody sunk under all of that atmosphere of decadence they'll not be able to polish at least their language - as the medium which by it they can communicate with their mind - so their thinking, behaviors.. whatever will go down ! So what a world where (Pootie Tang), who's talking in hallucination sometimes or muteness other times (his singing at the radio), became the very hero, the great artist and the perfect idol ! It's a world with no brain or trying to have one !At the same year there was (Josie and the Pussycats - 2001) which confirms so nicely that the modern pop culture aims at making us stupid petty creatures with no consciousness, no thinking but to consume only. So it's not art anymore it's how to make money fast as the ruler value of that culture or should I say that fallen culture ! (Pootie Tang) just says the same in one simple adventure which was not bad at all but only small and needed some concern (the actor of the vapid star mustn't be vapid also for instance !). Though, despite some a few low points, it's a talented amusing show with an original spoof superstar and something sharp to say which bitterly is that we live the era of (Pootie Tang) and his likes, imitators, wannabes.. So down with the brain and long live the WATTATA ! "},{"Title":"The definition of nonsense","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I would go on and on about how stupid and senseless this movie is, but it's not worth wasting my energy.  Here is the basic punchline of this one-joke comedy (if that's what you consider it)  The main character, Pootie Tang, blurts out a bunch of words and phrases that no one understands but the characters in the story.  Oh, my God!  You must be falling out your seat laughing!!!  Now, we had the character of Farmer Fran in The Waterboy who did the same routine, but it worked.  First of all, Blake Clark is a much better comic actor than Lance Crouthers--and has a barotone voice that alone makes you crack up.  And second, he wasn't the main character, so the joke wasn't played out to tedium.  Even a silly joke has to make some sort of sense.  In one scene, Pootie is in a recording studio, recording his new song.  He asks the studio executive to turn down the sound.  So what we hear is...nothing!  Literally nothing!  And everyone goes crazy over Pootie's new single!  It's the talk of the town!  A song that composes of nothing!  OK, so Seinfeld (my favorite show of all time) was a show about nothing, but it's the kind of nothing everyone can relate to.  Everyday characters in everyday situations who go through normal, everyday routines.  I try to be gentle with comedies, but if a comedy doesn't make you laugh--what do you have??  I've seen stupid comedies before that made me laugh out loud (i.e.  Dirty Work, Saving Silverman), but this is just plain stupidity!  Where's the laughs?  Damned if I know. I've never watched The Chris Rock Show (don't have premium cable), but I hope the sketches on his show is a lot funnier than this disastrous vehicle.  Louis C.K. (the writer/director) is one of the writers on Chris' show, and most of the cast composes of the regulars on the show.  Of course, Chris Rock himself has to be in it--in three roles!!  Chris is a talented comedian, but with material this lame he couldn't even milk any humor out of each scene.  And what the hell is up with Robert Vaughn??  This formerly respectable actor has only turned up in roles in campy comedies like this over the past years.  First he was in Joe's Apartment.  OK, I found that movie oddly appealing, but he still had a thankless, embarrassing role.  Then it was Baseketball.  And now Pootie Tang!  Wanda Sykes is also a regular on Chris' show and unfortunately she had to be dragged into this project, just like with Chris' other disastrous comedy Down to Earth.  I like Wanda, I've seen her stand-up acts and she is absolutely hilarious.  But even she couldn't bring out any laughs.  This is the kind of camp that doesn't even have potential to become a cult classic.  I'm sure everyone who participated in this project, twenty years from now, will probably make sure every copy of this film is burned.  I'm only giving this movie a vote of 3, because I got a few chuckles towards the end.  Nevertheless, this is still awful, awful, awful....My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Supergroovalisticprosifunksticationally good","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Pootie Tang is a music superstar, superhero, actor, farmer, and cobbler, in addition to about 50 other things. The film is set up as an extended clip that Pootie Tang shows as a guest on the Bob Costas Show of his new film, Sine Your Pity on the Runny Kine, which features Pootie Tang in superhero mode, battling corporate America.I can see how many people might not care for this film, but I enjoyed it--a lot! It ended up with a 9 out of 10 from me. Those who like the film probably enjoy absurdism, have a familiarity with various facets of African American oriented pop-culture going back to at least the early 1970s, and do not mind silly humor delivered in compact packages primarily for entertainment value.Pootie Tang is basically a spoof on various stereotypical (though rooted in reality) aspects of African American pop culture, ranging from Parliament/Funkadelic-styled goofiness and blaxploitation films to rap/hip-hop films, music videos, and other cultural items embraced by stereotypical African American pop culture, such as westerns, superhero films, and martial arts films (although the martial arts is also sourced from blaxploitation flicks). The bizarre vocabulary that Pootie Tang uses has similarities to George Clintonisms, which are found on Parliament/Funkadelic records (some of the best music you could listen to, by the way), and which have similarities to jive talking'. All of that has continued in the culture and is currently most well known with the jargon used by rappers.I mention all of this not to clue you in to how serious the film is--it's a wacky comedy, after all, but to help quell some of the criticisms that just take the film as stupid, without any basis in or relevance to the world at large. The humor in Pootie Tang works as well as it does because it's not that far removed from what it's referencing, which was often unintentionally (and sometimes intentionally) funny on its own.The plot of Pootie Tang (which in the context of the film is really the plot of Sine Your Pity on the Runny Kine) is entertaining, partially because it is intentionally campy and formulaic. The performances are good, the music excellent, and the jokes are fairly rapid-fire and usually work. In many respects, the film actually reminded me of an alternate-culture (alternate universe, maybe) version of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (1978), which may not be the best thing to mention, as many people strongly disliked Sgt. Pepper's, but both films were charmers for me.The review by messiercat noting the Christian religious analogy is also spot-on and adds another dimension to the film. "},{"Title":"Pure Objective Fact BEST CREATION BY MAN-EVER","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  How Louis C.K. and Chris Rock managed to transcend the limits of humanity and beget a film more valuable than life itself, a mortal such as myself cannot fathom.  Wah da tai my dammes, Pootie brilliantly reminds us, juxtaposing the uncertainty of life with the aplomb only Pootie possesses. Biggie Shorty's poetic gyrations inspire the soul, while Truckee's subtle narration adds innumerable dimensions to the cinematic experience.  My words fall tragically short; only a complete immersion with Pootie can fully justify this film.  Do whatever it takes, view this phenomenon immediately. "},{"Title":"Funny..for 5 minutes","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang was funny as a 5 minute sketch on the Chris Rock show.  But the movie just doesn't work to me.  It's like being stuck on a plane next to a guy who keeps telling you the same joke.  It goes from being funny to being painful.  Chris Rock even admits how bad the movie was.  And yes I know you're not supposed to understand him.  Wow everything he says sounds like gibberish Sada-Tay Tippy Tow.  You're right that just makes me change my entire opinion.  This movie was great.  *note sarcasm* The only parts that were kind of funny in the movie were at the beginning and the end.  I don't want to give any spoilers but the best thing I could probably do for you is spoil it so you aren't tempted to watch it.  I love movies and its very rare that I just completely don't like a movie.  There's only two that I can think of off the top of my head, one is House of the Dead and the other is Pootie Tang.   "},{"Title":"I seen this movie over 10 times and it just keeps getting funnier","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This movie is so funny i see it every time i get the chance. Pootie tang speaks in the strangest language that makes it kind of fun to try to figure out what he says The girls go crazy for him and the bad guys fear him cause he can whip anyones ass with just his belt. That is just funny as h*ll when a guy dances to funny music and whoops five, six, guys with guns with only his belt.This movie is the funniest movie ever. gotta see. when i first saw this movie i had to tell all my friends about it, i told my brother first and waited until it came out on HBO and told him when it was on so he could watch it, he said, that movie is stupid and i admit it, it is a stupid movie but funny as hell, so i told him but it did make you laugh and of course it did it made him laugh a lot, and then i showed it to other friends and it made all of them laugh cause its just that freaking funny "},{"Title":"Dumb, but strangely amusing","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Pootie Tang is a very stupid film. It's a stupid concept and a stupid character. It's not going to crack many people up, but I can see its humour, however dubious it may be. The main character, your aforementioned Mr Tang, is the coolest of the cool (he's actually rubbish but that's quite deliberate) and a superstar and role model to everyone. His dad used to whoop him with a belt, at 200mph. In less than a second, the belt would come off, whoop Pootie, and be back around his father's waist. It doesn't sound funny, but it's a laugh as a visual. When Pootie's dad passes, away, he hands the belt down to his son, who in turn uses it to whoop in times of trouble. Then you've got an attempt at a plot, which is really reaching but you get the feeling it's supposed to be. An evil businessman (Vaughan) wants Pootie to be the face of his underhanded operations, unbeknownst to Pootie - but Pootie won't do it. Instead he runs about saying random meaningless phrases, such as I'm gon' sine yo' pity on the runny kine and my personal favourite, Sa da tay. I haven't the foggiest idea what either of them mean, but in spite of these phrases being pointless and initially irritating, as the film progressed I found myself cracking up every time he says them, and I still do when I think about them. Then there's the woman who, every time we meet her, is dancing solo on a street corner....this is a pretty funny visual too.Yes, the film is awful, but for the brilliant over-acting of Chris Rock in about 800 different roles. That said, I found myself chuckling in spite of the film's obvious lack of quality in every area.I wouldn't recommend it - chances are you'd think it was utter tripe - but if you're easily amused, and it's on cable, persevere for 20 minutes and see what you think. Although you'll probably still hate it.  "},{"Title":"this movie sucks...","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  this movie sucks to high heaven. but its so bad that u have to giggle at its inane makings from the very start of the...film. if i can call it a film. it reminds me of the time i put 3 grand together to make a low budget short back in 1998. it was a piece of crap named the dragon fist connection and boy oh boy was it bad. but its better than pootie tang.he should have just stayed with the chris rock show because he was actually funny in it. this crap is like the black version of some really horrible saturday night live spinoff of a character who was only marginally amusing to begin with.  "},{"Title":"Sign yo' Pitty on tha Runny Kine","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever watched.  Funnier than Holy Grail, Amelie, and all of the Cohen Bros movies.  A better film than any one of those, debatable.  The difference between the aforementioned movies and Pootie Tang is budget, production values, and an audience that will accept it even if it is crap. (I am looking at Cohen Bros, you know which movie I am talking about).There are a lot of cinematic elitists here on IMDB that refuse to give credit when it is due.  These people, and you all know who they are, rail against anything they feel is unworthy.  Somehow beneath them. The point here is that comedy is not something can be effectively quantified. Something is either funny or it is not. Amelie is funny, as is Super Troopers.  Do you leave each movie having experienced the same thing? Hardly, but both were quite enjoyable.Among the complaints is that Pootie Tang cannot be understood.  This is one of the best running jokes in the movie.  A lot of the cinematic elitists loved the communication between Forrest Whitaker and Isaach De Bankolé in Ghost Dog.  Yeah, it was funny and it added to the texture of the movie's characters while commenting on the value of language and communication. But is that what you are thinking about when you are watching a movie? Pootie Tang is a comedy that is void of the pretense that is saddled with the Amelie's and Cohen Bros comedies.  (Not that these directors are pretentious, just that many of their fans are.)Bottom line.  Pootie Tang is a laugh out loud comedy classic that will have you stomach hurting.  You will repeat the lines to friends and you will be taken away by the warmth and good nature of the film.  The movie does have depth and contains a social comment that is not shoved down your throat. Pootie focus on humor first and the message it delivers third, (there is a whole bunch of satire in there takin up spot number two).Papa Pootie You have to give respect, to get respect! "}{"Title":"Uhh","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Stars * out of ***** Uhh. Haven't we had enough of useless stupid films that make absolutely no sense? Pootie Tang, even the title gives it away. The movie was terrible. I mean ya Wanda Sykes was cute and gave a fairly good performance,same with Lance. But it just wasn't enough. The story was about a 70 min clip of Pootie's movie, Sign Your Pitty On The Runny Kind or something like that. I love Wanda so she was good. It was my first time seeing Lance so he was okay. But don't wast your time unless you are a useless bum who sits on his/her couch all day watching tv and movies or if you love the actors. The MPAA Rated This Film PG13 for sex related material, language and drug content I Feel This Film Should Have Been Rated R for constant strong sexual content and humor, and for language and drug use "},{"Title":"I thought I'd hate this movie but....","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  After several pleas from my best friend to rent this movie, I finally broke down and rented it. I haven't laughed as much since. I loved it so much that I went out the very next day and bought it! Not only is it a positive movie but actually quite funny. I usually wouldn't rent something rated PG-13 however, Pootie Tang is the best one I've seen since Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. The entire film has a great style similar to good flashy music videos. I really don't remember this one hitting the theaters but I wish I did. If you rent it on DVD make sure to watch the trailer and entire film even through the credits. You will see an extra music video featuring 702, deleted scenes, bloopers, and a teaser for Pootie's next adventure- Cole Me Down On the Panny Sty! I personally can't wait! "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Nonsense","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Pootie Tang comes to us from Chris Rock's HBO show. The movie seems to be a blaxploitation spoof on one level. But on another level, it comes off as something too avant garde. Lance Crouther plays the title character, a black hero with a powerful belt and a language all his own. His incomprehensible dialogue makes it hard to tell if his acting is any good. The movie has few truly funny moments. I did enjoy the bit with Dirty Dee going through the car wash. And Pootie's silent hit single did have a slightly clever edge to it. But, on the whole, I just didn't get Pootie Tang. If you want a funny blaxploitation spoof, you should see I'm Gonna Git You, Sucka. "},{"Title":"Bootie, Murder my time Movie","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I paid $9 for this movie and only got 10 minutes of humor.  I guess humor is worth a buck and some cents these days.  Or is it??  The rest of the movie is something duct taped together to make us seem like it was a movie.  "},{"Title":"Occasionally Sipi-Tai (but mostly not even Wadata)","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  	Pootie Tang, based on a sketch character from The Chris Rock Show, is another piece of evidence to add to the fact that sketch characters usually don't work for long periods of time &#150; look at most Saturday Night Live movies, and to a lesser extent Jay and Silent Bob.  While the film is fun at parts and stays true to its audience, it's not a very enjoyable or memorable experience.	The film's main draw for me was Chris Rock; unfortunately, he was greatly limited by his weak supporting roles and this wasn't one of his best performances (and it wasn't one of his best performances either).  Lance Crouther was pretty slick as Pootie Tang, a new-age blaxploitation superhero, but the gimmick of his own language without subtitles or anything went downhill really fast, especially since the same words seemed to have multiple meanings throughout the picture depending on the situation (though I'm no linguist, it could've just been misinterpretation).  The villains, a generic evil white corporate geezer and decidedly less generic brother/dirty street dealer, served their purpose, the latter being more memorable only because of his obsession with staying literally dirty.  All other characters (most of which are urban culture stereotypes, with the exception of a couple backwoods/redneck culture stereotypes) are introduced, serve no real purpose other than to fill space towards their one (or two) gag(s), do their gag(s), and then exit all the same without leaving a lasting impression (or, in the case of a bad gag, any laughter).	The problem with Pootie Tang was that the vast majority of the characters and gags just don't leave any lasting impression.  Some of them were worth a chuckle, but the rest of it just seemed like Chris Rock light, toned down and lacking his signature edge (maybe I just expected too much as a Chris Rock fan who saw his name on this).  It's quite possible that I'm just not the right audience, as it's quite apparent that the film knows its limits and caters exclusively to a specific type of cynical urban audience mind-set (as evidence for this, a friend told me when he saw it in the theatre that he, along with the rest of the audience, was rolling in the aisles with laughter).	One admirable and interesting thing to note is the film's soundtrack.  Unlike most urban soundtracks, where seemingly random songs plucked together and marketed to push units with few connections to the film, songs in this film are lyrically linked to and played in connection with characters and events.  This gives the songs the feel of a literal soundtrack, serving the same purpose as the score in other movies, and brings a welcome freshness that the rest of the film should have shared.	Part of the film's plot centers on Pootie Tang selling out and going from a street hero to just another image.  In real life, this will never be an issue, because the film makes the effort but is just not funny or original enough to turn into the fun movie necessary for a worthy new franchise.  The aforementioned soundtrack was rather clever though, along with the ending, but that was really it. "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  About halfway through this incomprehensible film, I had an urge to pop the tape out of my VCR and throw it out my third story apartment window. Yes folks, this movie is that bad AND incomprehensible. When i mean incomprehensible, I MEAN incomprehensible. The said title character in this film is as comprehensible as a haiku written by a semi-literate man with a cerebral palsy. AVOID THIS TURKEY AT ALL COST! "},{"Title":"Pretty funny movie, but i'll tell you why it bombed..","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Paramount only released this movie only 712 screens (that's nothing) and did next to nothing to promote it. People that really hated this movie had no idea what they were getting into. Part of that should be blamed on the lack of promotion. People were thinking it was a Chris Rock Movie. It isn't. Rock just has some small roles and he was on of the many producers of this film. Pootie originated on the Chris Rock show, but the character was all Louis CK's idea(the writer and director of the movie). IM pretty sure Paramount actually came to Chris Rock and Co. and asked if they wanted to make a Pootie Movie. Anyway, i thought this movie was pretty funny. Some of the Pootie Speak was great and there are a lot of funny parts in this movie. Not the best movie you'll ever see, but it made me laugh. That's all i expected it to do. "},{"Title":"It puts the 'poo' in Pootie Tang","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" Everyone loves a film which is so bad it's good. However, I have to say - somewhat predictably - this film is just plain bad. I usually like these kind of ridiculous comedies. For example Hollywood Shuffle and I'm Gonna Git You Sucka are both classics in my mind. However, like someone else said on this forum, Pootie Tang really only has one joke and it isn't funny. Throughout the film Pootie speaks in a nonsense language which is because he's too cool for words. Mmmmm... how very funny.I think there was one thing that made me laugh, but to be honest I can't even remember what it was. This film was just a massive disappointment. Controversial as it may be to say this, Chris Rock is rubbish. He seems to have become a parody of himself. I used to think he was great but now I'd prefer to watch Chris Tucker and dare I say it, Martin Lawrence. "},{"Title":"More like Black Ishtar","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I would give it a zero if IMDB allowed it.  Not classic enough to be the worst movie ever, but certainly, might be one of the most unforgettable.  It's hard to imagine that Chris Rock could stoop so low.  A pure piece of trash, it's not even good for the novelty or cult value.  It's an overly produced piece of garbage that is not even a quarter as good as what it tries to spoof.  The irony of black humour is not even bad, it's just terrible.  I could never imagine that I would not laugh to urban humour, but this was so whiteboy, it was sick.  Chris Rock is not black.  He is a Uncle Tom cashing in on laughing at black people.  But hello! Chris Rock, most black exploitation movies are patronized by black people.  No, you will not get rich tricking the white trash alone.  Pathetic imitations of Eddie Murphy and Mike Myers, this does not even come within three thousand light years from those two SNL alum.  What was probably pitched as a black Austin Powers, this insult to retarded school IQ is about as down wit da ghetto as Christopher Reeves in Street Smarts.  Watch it at your own peril. "},{"Title":"complete waste of time!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I was forced to watch this piece of steaming #### while visiting a friend. He and the other guests thought this movie was the funniest movie the have ever seen. I sat through this trite excuse for a film and while my friends were laughing I sat motionless not even a smile at what according to my friends were the funniest moments of the movie. The radio chart topper which was nothing but silence??? What the hell was that? Who thought that would be funny. This film does not even fall under the category of it's so bad it's good. I hope studio executives were fired for approving this film. I urge any reading this to avoid it at all costs! "}{"Title":"relatively funny,  but got old quickly","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" The film started off pretty hilarious, but it got annoying over time constantly hearing pootie speak. Perhaps the creators thought that the same shtick run over and over would keep getting laughs, but I tend to think comedy needs variety and spontaneity. The PSA's done by Pootie were pretty funny I thought.This film got a 3 because of the redundancy of the humour and the fact that it was shown too many times on cinemax last summer. It's a movie to see just to say you've seen it, but it will be forgotten over time for certain. It's in a league of quickly forgotten movies such as CB-4, They Live, and Brotherhood of Justice. "},{"Title":"WORST FILM (Not sure if it is one) EVER","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this film because one of my friends begged me. I should have hit him then. Anyway, I dont have much to say about it, because it is really, insanely bad!! The only comment I have about this film isTHE MAIN CHARACTER SPEAKS A LANGUAGE THAT NO ONE UNDERSTANDS!!!!!!!!!!I mean come on, how am I going to understand him? Through he's body language?  "},{"Title":"Top 3 WORST movies","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I suggest you do NOT see this movie. It has entered my top 3 of worst movies I have ever seen! Haven't laughed a single time.I thought it would be nice with Chris Rock, but I was wrong.Never see Pootie Tang unless you want to really waste your time. "},{"Title":"When ratings go to 0 (read it zero)...","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  What is happening these days to the movie industry ? Whoever made this considered they make a movie ? Well, yeah, nice chicks, nice soundtrack (or not so nice), nice cars (specially that dirty one), everything is nice... just, it has no value. Go buy and icecream and feel better then wasting money on this huge POS! "},{"Title":"truly,truly deserves a one (less if it were possible)","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Ok so it was nowhere near as annoying as Scary Movie or Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back but certainly as stupid and for the mostpart less funny than the former titles. If I ever needed (anymore) evidence of why Chris Rock is a waste of a paycheck,THIS IS IT! I can't believe he's not begging for change and eating garbage after this flop. Here's the rundown The main guy Pootie Tang,is a crimefighting super-cool martial artist/actor who ends up selling a song that has NO SOUND OR LYRICS. This is somewhat worthy of a chuckle...for maybe five seconds tops (remember I said chuckle,not laugh). When he speaks,he's got entirely his own vocabulary(Words like 'cappatau')but this is about as funny as watching the Teletubbies and having everyone laugh at it because they feel as though they're 'supposed to' because well,it's supposedly cool! After 45 minutes of this tripe,I finally shut it off. I felt somewhat violated after having seen the commercial last summer and was very anxious to see this movie. Couldn't figure out why it never made it to a theatre near me......now I know. "},{"Title":"Worst Kind of Garbage--just plain BAD!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Ridiculous waste of time.  No evidence of writing, acting, directing or editing talent.  Could be in the Plan 9 From Outer Space category, except this isn't that good.  Spare yourself--and your friends and family (after you watch this, you'll be a lesser person--it's a brain destroyer) "},{"Title":"i have had more fun drinking whiskey in a closet","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I usually try to be constructive whenever i criticize, however, i doubt the readers of this comment will care. I actually had high expectations for this movie, but they were all shattered after a few seconds of watching. Nothing really made sense, everything was very uneven, i almost didn't realize i was watching movie because it is quite similar to a bad commercial trying to be funny. The only part i did appreciate, don't ask me why, was when we were first introduced to the belt. The scenes where Biggie Shortie bounces up and down in a poor attempt to be, i'm guessing, are just embarrassing, what was she thinking? When they see this, they will give me serious wellpaid roles. I won't bore you with more of my opinions, it is quite obvious i did not enjoy this piece of work.  "},{"Title":"Oh my god...it is full of stars...I mean there's...let's see...Chris Rock...wow!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Ok there are three reasons why I didn't like this movie at all.One English isn't my mother tongue so I guess I couldn't possibly get the humor connected with the way Pootie talks (I assume he's trying to express something although I couldn't understand a single word he was saying). Zada Tee...HAHAHA Damn that's funny...on second thought though...uhm what the heck does that mean and is this sort of stuff supposed to make me laugh? Well, at least as for me it didn't...not one tiny bit.Two I'm not into rap or hip hop or any of the values connected with that sort of noise ;) Unfortunately as the movie is solely based on black music I couldn't identify with any of the protagonists, not at all. Plus the jokes are so lame you can hardly take it without having to go to the bathroom at least twice an hour (breaks are needed in order to cope with the idea of having to sit through another bunch of painful not even remotely funny pranks).Three and most important of all POOTIE TANG SUCKS...HARD. To be completely honest that's the only thing that came to my mind while watching this utter c**p. If you even consider watching Pootie Tang please do yourself a favor and bang your head against a concrete wall until you've knocked yourself unconcious. That way you've tortured yourself equally merciless...for free.Thanks for your time... "},{"Title":"The story of our planet!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" This movie is entirely a metaphor for the history of planet Earth/America. The Anunnaki, and our early early start on this planet. The corporation take over is the evil negative take over of our planet by negative aliens. Biggie Shorty is a metaphor for the positive aliens who help us. We learned about everything and the ones who know are off creating beautiful things, and when they return, they'll come back with the positive aliens (aliens aren't really aliens, we all our aliens, so no one is)and vanquish the evil controlling empire on this planet. Making this one of the greatest movie's ever. He was trying to inform us about the truth of what is going on, on our planet. "},{"Title":"May Very Well Be One Of the Worst Films Ever Made","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Actualy, I don't think one could even call this a film. It stands on it'sown and there are laughs to be had mostly because all Pootiedoes is talk funny. It stands on it's own as a collection of skits, kindof like how a Monty Python movie would, but the fact is that it wearsout its welcome long before you realize that the movie hasabsloutely no point at all. It's headscratchingly bad and one beginsto wonder why Paramount would ever release a film in thiscondition. A lot more work should have been put into this, but sadlywasn't. It should be noted, however, that the fault of this moviebeing in this condition rests solely on the shoulders of the studiothat released it. The director was not allowed in the editing roomwhile the film was being cut, and was also not allowed to see themovie before it's release. In the end, it explains quite a lot. "}{"Title":"This movie is like a vacuum...","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  because it really sucks.   It wasn't funny. I don't know why I sat through it all. I did fast forward through parts. At least this is the shortest movie I have ever seen.  And, I still have no idea what the point or plot of this movie was supposed to be.FINAL VERDICT Dumb. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"What's Up?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Usually I'm a big fan of Chris Rock.  So, I decided to give this a try in spite of the sophomoric title.  What a rip off.  This was worth about 3 minutes in a stand up comedy bit. That's all.  Don't waste your time.  I was embarrassed for Chris Rock.  Maybe his popularity has finally gone to his head and he thinks anything he touches will turn to gold.  Think again, Chris..... "},{"Title":"I hope Lance Crouther never acts again","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I hate this movie, since the first couple of minutes time went slower and slower. Acting is awful even from Mr. Rock, I don't know has he ever acted good, but not in this movie anyway. Script is the most stupidest I'v ever seen. When I borrowed this movie I thought Hey this might be some low-brain-activity-movie but it turned out to be waste-of-my-money-and-never-getting-that-time-back-movie. I hope no one else does this horrible mistake of borrowing or buying this movie. I tell you all, this movie sucks and it doesn't suck in a normal teenage-comedy kind a way but a plain-stupid kind a way.Thanks a lot Mr. Rock and MTV for wrecking my life. "},{"Title":"And they thought Plan 9 from Outer Space was bad.....","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Louis C.K is the African-American version of Ed Wood.This movie was a waste of good film.  And to think, they could have filmed Barney the purple dinosaur with this film; that's just how bad it is.When I saw Chris Rock and Wanda Sykes was in this movie, I thought it would be funny, but even THEY don't do enough to make you crack a smile.Luckily, this movie is only 70mins. long!  But that is 71 mins. too long...... "},{"Title":"STUPID STUPID STUPID!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  probably one of the WORST movies i've ever seen! you cant understand one word he is saying and the funniest part lasts for 2 seconds! the ONLY funny part! I hated it! Don't waste your time. HONEST TO GOD My Friends and I went out to the theater to see Pootie Tang and we didn't stay for 10 minutes. We walked out of the theater while my Girlfriend screamed out POOTIE TANG SUCKS! All the other people in the theater started clapping! We walked to the front and asked for our money back. We got free passes to a movie. Thats how much I liked Pootie Tang. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks!!!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  Chris Rock needs to be ashamed of himself.  The first ten minutes of the movie was stupid!  Pootie Tang's language may have been funny for the Chris Rock Show but it's not enough to carry an entire movie.  After thirty minutes I left to go sit in Tomb Raider.  I like silly humor but this was thirty minutes of my life that I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"the most horrid two hours of my life","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  the movie was just crap i expected so much more from chris rock it was point less he can't ever talk hes to cool for words   that is just plan stupid it makes no sence at all.....................................pootie tang is the biggest load of crap i thing im going to try to get my money back or kill my self etheir or "},{"Title":"A crap version of CB4","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":" I usually love comedies which gets bashed by the reviewers but this time I agree with them. This movie was so bad that it even wasn't funny to laugh at how lousy it is. I didn't pay for it but I still regret that I saw it because I wasted time on crap.In 1993 Chris Rock did a movie called CB4 which also was about superstars rise and fall. That movie was pure genius. But this movie had a script which even a 10 year old kid could do better. There was some characters which were lovable but a disadvantage was that the main character didn't have any charm at all. I didn't have any feelings for him. He wasn't funny, interesting or likable. The jokes in this movie was all the same over and over again which just was annoying.I think Chris Rock is a hilarious comedian and I even love his movies which flopped but this one... it sure was crap. "},{"Title":"Waste of my time","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  I saw Pootie Tang for free on my University's movie channel, and even though it was free I STILL want a refund.  I was seriously considering shutting the stupid thing off less than halfway through it, but then I decided to suffer long enough to be able to write a deserving, scathing review.First of all, I'm not a Chris Rock fan.  When I was younger I thought he was funny, but later on I realized that he really isn't.  Seriously, none of his movies have been all that humorous.Secondly, I can't for the life of me figure out what genre this movie is in. Is it a drama?  Not really, it's too satirical for that.  So is it a Satire?  No, it tries to be too serious for that.  Is it a plain comedy? Well, if that's the case it is a rather disappointing one.Pootie Tang is the title character.  But beyond that, I don't know what he is.  This film starts with him doing an interview about a movie that he's putting out.  And for the most part, the Real Movie is the clip shown in the interview.  That leaves you all but totally unable to figure out what's really going on.  Is Pootie a crime fighter, or is that just in the interview movie?  Does he really have a magic belt or is that just in the interview movie?  Regardless, he IS still a moron that doesn't make any sense at all.  One of the running attempts at humor is that Pootie speaks so much meaningless jive that nobody can comprehend him, although the actors seem to be able to somehow get his meaning.  Trust me, it's not funny.The characters other than Pootie are also totally unbelieveable.  The gangster who can't stand to not be dirty.  As in literally dirty; covered in mud.  Riiiiiggghhht...  And Pootie's father who constantly whips his son or anyone else with his belt to get them to do whatever it is that he wants. (He later bestows the belt to Pootie.)  But the lashings never leave a mark, and when Pootie is a boy he never cries after he's been hit - it just got his attention.  Sure.  Ask a friend to whip you with a leather belt sometime - even just lightly.  Go ahead, I dare you.  Or the sheriff who threatens to shoot people if they don't marry his daughter.  Or any other poorly written character stuck in a badly written plot they're all bad.There's no music score to speak of, no special effects to amaze you, no storyline to impress you, and no morals to teach you anything.  It's like a porno without the nudity.  I feel dumber for having watched it.  Save yourself the time, and save yourself the money - avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"If you like the Chris Rock show on HBO do not watch this","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  All I can say is this is an attempt to make a Gonna get you Sucka type movie which fails miserably.Chis Rock is a very funny and creative comic, but really missed the boat on this one. This movie may have been pulled off as a 10 min sketch but anything past that is redundant and very annoying. For Example Wanda is one of his funniest characters on his variety show but in Pootie Tang she is relegated to a short verbal leash due to the PG-13 rating..a total waste of her sharp tongue and F*** you style. This movie tries to come off as a lampoon of black exploitation meets spike lee with a dash of three stooges and kentucky fried movie and may have been able to pull it off if it could have been as raw and untethered as a Chris Rock Standup routine. "}{"Title":"God awful","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Musical, Adventure","Review":"  As I sit here with Pootie Tang going on the TV screen, all I can think of is that Hollywood has reached a new low. How in gods name did this movie not go direct to MTV, only a MTV junkie with no real self thought could enjoy this. I tried to give this a chance, but I cannot take it any longer. I am a fan of Chris Rock, but having his name on this movie has drastically lowered my respect of him. I am a fan of such other senseless movies such as dumb and dumber, and Freddy got fingered, but this movie is just pathetic. The only part I thought was humorous was when he was in the recording booth and sang absouletly nothing, and it became a hit, I find this funny because it pretty much represents the Recording industry of today allowing such crap like Rap to be popularized. Rap requires no skill, as obviously this movie did not either. To sum it up, DO NOT spend a dollar on this movie, it is not worth any monetary value, heck, I wouldnt even spend a penny on this rubbish. "}]