[{"Title":"Refreshing & Inspiring","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The thing that makes this movie so - I have to say it - lovely & amazing is what it doesn't do it doesn't attempt in any shape or form to be commercial, it doesn't compromise its integrity or the integrity of its characters in any way, and it doesn't try to be cute or clever or witty or deep. It simply invites us into the characters' lives and lets us share them for a couple of hours. No judgment, no big overblown speeches, no hystrionics. No car crashes, no dead bodies, no funerals. No artifice, no heavy-handedness, no contrivances. Nicole Holofcener achieved the same effect in Walking & Talking, which had the same 'effortless' feel to it, and the always-wonderful Catherine Keener is in both, as well. The cast also includes Brenda Blethyn, Emily Mortimer and Jake Gyllenhaal (Donnie Darko himself!) and everyone is superb, creating beautifully nuanced and subtle characterizations that ring entirely true.I trust Holofcener (even though I can't pronounce her name yet) - she doesn't seem like she's going to sell out and make anything remotely commercial anytime in the future, her vision is far too pure for that, which makes her lovely & amazing in my book. "},{"Title":"My A-Lifetime-Ago Girlfriend Was Right","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  whenever she launched into one of her favorite themes, American women hate their bodies.  Lovely & Amazing takes us into the appearance-based self-image of females from eight to slightly past mid-age whose concern about their bodies is one major part of their complex, sometimes wacky and always interdependent lives.Lovely and Amazing takes its place along Kissing Jessica Stein as a sharp, inspired view of women's lives as seen through a female director's vision brought to life by an outstanding cast.Director Nicole Holofcener, who also wrote the script, projects a sense of balance that brings each character's life into sharp and absorbing focus.  Jane, (Brenda Blethyn) the long-divorced matriarch, adopted a young black girl, Annie (Raven Goodwin). No reason given and...none needed.  Jane is both wise and vulnerable, warm and vain.Her two grown-up (entirely chronologically and partially emotionally) daughters, Michelle (Catherine Keener) and Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer) lead different lives but express much mutual love for each other and with Annie. No sibling rivalry and repressed anger from a pantheon of past slights in this flick.  Michelle is a caring mother of a little girl married to a guy who obviously is tired of the union but Michelle can't figure out why.  Her husband may be bored and disposed to philandering but she never figures out that his complaint that she won't work but only devotes herself to creating odd objets d'art that no one wants to buy has some merit.Elizabeth is a stray pooch-collecting film actress teetering on the edge of dwindling starletdom.  Described as neurotic, she really has a basis for her career insecurity which is exacerbated by a boyfriend whose unsupportive manner borders on clinical anhedonism.  Woody Allen's frequent neurotic film persona is unbounded joy compared to this guy.Weaving through the sisters' and mom's various dilemmas is a constant concern about body contours.  The rigors of liposuction (the mom's expensive treat for herself) are realistically shown - no sugar-coated subliminal push for surgical sculpting here.  The scene where a naked Elizabeth demands a post-coital appendage-by-appendage evaluation by her cautious lover wryly comes close to a truth many women admit to but only amongst themselves (I assert that Upon Information and Belief, a useful lawyer's escape).Annie, born a crack baby, now has to deal with baby fat as her important life issue. Whether she wants to or not.  She's sharp and funny and the genuine ease by which her two siblings refer to her as their sister does not displace references to the reality of growing up black in an affluent white family but it does put that dimension in perspective.  This is a very lucky, loved kid and the affection between the three sisters is believable. Also welcome.  And just plain nice.All four share the trait of being able to hurl four-letter expletives at the drop of a slight.  It's very funny.The men in the movie aren't so much irrelevant as they are accessories useful, often annoying, sometimes immature but never dangerous. Or even worth looking at too closely.Catherine Keener and Emily Mortimer shine as complex characters not wholly aware of why their lives play out as they do.  Neither can repress a refreshing optimism that surfaces time and again.  Ms. Keener is an amazing actress!Director Nicole Holefcener has a lot to say and I'm look forward to her next film. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Lovely","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few directors have a firm grip on creating comic works which while making us laugh or smile, also move us deeply.  Chaplin's genius was founded on this blend of emotions. When Time magazine's cover labeled Wood Allen comic genius it was this same principle they were commending, though his films over the past 20 years would largely disprove this assumption.Nicole Holofcener's small output prevents making any kind of assumption as yet, but in Lovely and Amazing she displays remarkable ability in dealing with the pain people (mostly female) experience in grappling with the issue of self esteem. Throughout the movie and without any lapse, she reveals the comic side of human frailty. We laugh at the characters with compassion rather than derision. It's a feat of great skill and much promise.Holofcener clearly works well with actors, Brenda Blethyn, Catherine Keener, Dermot Mulroney, Emily Mortimer and Jake Gyllenhaal, all are spot on with their characters. She also elicits a lovely underplayed performance from inexperienced child actor Raven Goodwin.Holofcener has produced a genuinely lovely film; one that portends amazing things yet to come. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Subtle","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Walking and Talking, Nicole Holofcener's previous film, I didn't realize at first what a brilliant piece of work it was.  My experience with Lovely and Amazing was exactly the same.  It is only later that it becomes clear how expertly the relationships between the characters are illuminated and with what originality she has constructed a story.  Lovely and Amazing is an examination of a family of women and their complex relationships with themselves and the men in their lives. The women in Lovely and Amazing are real people.  They are frequently horrible to each other and sabotage themselves just like real women.  They are also capable, like real women, of moments of intimacy and insight with each other.I believe Nicole Holofcener is the most talented indie filmmaker out there at the moment.  Walking and Talking is one of my all time favorite films, and Lovely and Amazing just confirmed her status in my eyes as an insightful storyteller.   Audiences deserve more films that achieve this level of excellence, and I hope Nicole Holofcener has the chance to deliver them. "},{"Title":"Real, but not interesting","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanley Kubrick's line, to me, sums my impression of this movie up completely.It was real, but it wasn't interesting.In all fairness, all of the lead actresses in the movie engaged me at one point or another, at least briefly.  But the integral thing about their characters was that they were shallow, and remained shallow at the end.Which is real, there are certainly people in the world who are shallow and remain shallow.But it isn't especially interesting. "},{"Title":"Not your typical chick flick","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really impressed with this film.  It manages to avoid all of the cliches you frequently see in Hollywood films about women and present an honest and often amusing picture of the characters' lives.Catherine Keener is a real stand-out and I can't say enough about Raven Goodwin's performance.This film isn't just about women.  It's about the way we all see ourselves. "},{"Title":"Emotionally deep drama of a dysfunctional family","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about the daily struggles for happiness of a mother and her 3 daughters.The story is captivating from the start. The mother, played by Brenda Blethlyn, is insecure and wanted a liposuction. The eldest daughter, played by Catherine Keener, has a painfully distant husband. The middle daughter, played by Emily Mortimer, is a struggling actress with high levels of insecurity. The youngest daughter is an adopted daughter of African heritage, and she is spoilt to bits.The dysfunction between the family is portrayed very well, due to excellent character developments. I get to understand every character's thoughts and feelings. Catherine Keener and Emily Mortimer act well, and brings the characters to life. There are few films that can make the characters so vivid and alive. "},{"Title":"Lovely?  Sure.  Amazing?  Not so much.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blah.There's just not much to this movie.  I really enjoy Catherine Keener and Jake Gyllenhall normally, and this film was no different.  Other than them, there's really nothing remarkable about this film.One major grumble- the plot is stretched so thin as to be nonexistent.  In fact, I might even go so far as to say that this film has no plot.  No character development, no resolution of conflict, no nothing.  I would say it's nihilistic but I think that a film has to at least _try_ in order to be considered nihilistic.  It's like watching a weird kind of reality show that gets sentimental about its subjects.  Maybe that's the tone the movie was trying for.  Even if that's the case, I'm wildly unimpressed.I will say that the trailers before this film were extraordinary, though. "},{"Title":"Story goes no where but sharp dialogue save film","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was enjoying this film thoroughly until the ending when some very important plot developments are left unresolved! The acting is excellent and the dialogue sharp and even though I recommend this film to everyone, I think everyone will have the same reaction as I did. It can't end now! I don't want to give the ending away (Or the lack of an ending)but Catherine Keener's character is about to lose her marriage and has a statutory rape charge hanging over her head and her husband is threatening to take away her daughter! Then the movie ends? I don't hate this film. I liked it. But it leaves the viewer in an unsatisfying way. These are not loose threads, but empty holes! Anyway, go see it! "},{"Title":"Solid film","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really impressed by the solid characterizations and the comfort Holofcener has with the story and the script, even among the uncomfortable issues it raises.   Finally, a feminine anti-hero film that does not attempt to make any statements about Women or Men, but just gives roles to women that are refreshingly human.  The characters are often unsympathetic, but that makes it work so much the better.  Shooting in HD video is the best choice over regular DV, and it is almost believable to be film.  A solid film and worth seeing! "}{"Title":"Slight","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watchable and inoffensive but hardly likely to arouse intense debate about anything, really. The performances are neat and unshowy, with Catherine Keener reliable as ever as (another) wayward hard-ass, Mulroney playing the roguish fool and Jake Gyllenhaal practising for the role he plays in The Good Girl. But Brenda Blethyn's matriarch isn't given any real depth which has got to go down as a missed opportunity. And since the story is an irrelevance, there aren't enough revelations (in fact, none) amongst the introspective musings and general angst to set this apart from any other female-orientated slice-of-life indie. It all feels a bit like Soderbergh's Full Frontal, only less constipated. "},{"Title":"Meet the Marks Sisters","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know the Marx brothers, now meet the Marks sisters, Michelle, Elizabeth, and Annie. Their mother is Jane, played by Brenda Blethyn. Michelle is trapped in a loveless, sexless marraige.   Elizabeth is hooked up with a guy whose logical  approach to life rivals that of Mr. Spock. And Annie  is a very young black girl (I know this sounds like something out of a Steve Martin movie, but it's true), who is very attached to her adoptive mom. Lovely & Amazing is an entertaining movie about this crazy family.  It has everything,    liposuction, statutory rape, fast food, show business, and possibly rabies.  If you're tired of all the adolescent piffle that's out there, you should give this movie a look-see. "},{"Title":"Why should I care?","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My first question in evaluating a movie is, Why should I care about these characters? There was no reason to care about any of these characters, and if a film doesn't start out hooking me into caring, I get irritated with it. These women were annoying, self-absorbed, unlikeable, and demandingly selfish. I tried to care, but was glad that I had kitchen work to do while I watched it or I'd have given up on it as a waste of time. The only reason I give it a 3 is that the acting was OK.Why do women's movies think that we want to see real-life to the point that there is little redeeming value to what the characters are portrayed as going through? This movie reminded me of a person I work with who comes in every day assuming I'll be thrilled to hear about the boring details of her life and relationships. "},{"Title":"Fine Character Study","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a well-made character study about a neurotic family, consisting of a mother and her three daughters, two grown and one adopted eight-year-old. Keener is terrific as the eldest daughter, who is basically angry with the world because her life is going nowhere. Mortimer is equally good as the middle daughter, a sweetly vulnerable actress coming to grips with failure in her profession. Blyth is fine as the mother and the good supporting cast features some familiar faces. Nothing much happens but it's a good to spend some time getting to know these characters. Kudos to Holofcener, who wrote and directed this comedy-drama. "},{"Title":"taking the fun out of dysfunctional","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had very mixed feelings about this film. It is well-acted and reasonably well-crafted, but there wasn't a single character with whom I could empathize. This unhappy gaggle of needy, whiney and self-adsorbed women belongs together...in therapy. "},{"Title":"not just for ladies","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know what this movie was going to be about when i walked into the theatre. If I had I would have stayed away - on paper it's your class chick flick - three sisters working out their problem and a neurotic mother facing a health crisis. However, I'm really glad I saw it because this was a not a manipulative tearjerker Not at all  I felt like I spent time with four real human beings (the mom + 3 sisters). Catherine Keener was great in this - she was in turns immature (she loves cartoons -)) , likable, maybe sometimes not so likeable, maybe lazy, the kind of actress for whatever reason you can't take your eyes off of. The actress daughter played by Emily Mortimer hit just the right notes of insecurity and authenticity - when the guy she sleeps with tells her not to get a boob job because she's an original I felt like Yeah, she really is!. Anyways I really thought this was a good character driven movie - the director obviously had an affection for her characters and I did to - I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"lazy filmmaking","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's some chain I can't remember the name of that makes a low calorie ice cream substitute.  Some people like it, but to me it just tastes like whipped air.  Lovely and Amazing is the same sort of confection, a forgettable, insubstantial facsimile of a touching drama.  An estrogen-fueled flick about a bunch of related women, the movie has few ideas and in spite of very occasional good moments is generally poorly conceived and bland.  There is something very lazy about this movie.  Characters are not fully drawn, but are more like stick figures designed to make a point.  While the main characters are given at least a semblance of depth, minor characters are invariably automatons programmed to do a specific task that will get a specific reaction from a main character; none are full people in their own right.  For the most part, nothing happens of note in the film, but a few unlikely, ridiculously over-the-top events are tossed in to, I suppose, try and goose up the dramatic tension.  Poor script, bland direction, unpleasant characters.  Decent performances by Keener and Mortimer can't save it.   "},{"Title":"Perfect Take on Borderline Personality Disorder","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this is a good film in that it is character driven, a bit like Happiness with its three sisters story (which is far superior). The worst of it--Emily Mortimer doing full frontal nudity, totallly gratuitous and robbing us of character development. Her character asks the man she's slept with to critique her body. Hey, instead of showing us the whole thing, which makes his critique invalid and distracts us from the extreme masochism of the request, how about just showing us her facial reactions to his butt not round enough, tit too droopy? Wouldn't that be a more powerful way to go? This is not a daring move; it's ineffective and takes away from the story. HOWEVER, the good part is, if you're unlucky enough to have a borderline female in you life, Catherine Keener gives a dead-on portrait of this perpetually unhappy, toxic species. Something therapists can point to and victims can learn from. I'd recommend seeing this film just for that particular educational value, as well as some of the strongest writing.  "},{"Title":"It's neither, sorry folks","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This tedious bit of filmmaking received some very strong publicity and film festivals but one wonders what those folks were smoking...It is boring and unispired, phony, and nothing is lovely at all, not even the ladies starring in it. Maybe it is amazing that the director found financing for her film, but that's about it. Women's films usually are over-emotional and melodramatic, this one is just a bunch of ladies with nothing to do or say. "},{"Title":"HBO Should Pick This Up","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, but thought that 90 minutes did not do it justice.  Though a good movie, this could be a GREAT series.  The character development reminds me of that in Six Feet Under.  Each character has her own issues and insecurities, but that's what makes us grow attached to her. I would love to see the next 15 episodes to find out what happens to them. HBO - IS ANYONE OUT THERE LISTENING??? "}{"Title":"A rare honest portrayal of women.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lovely & Amazing is one of those rare films about women that does the gender justice.  I must admit to a pet peeve about the portrayal of women in movies.  I find far too often that women are used as the mechanism for the downfall of men.  It has been this way since Eve allegedly tempted Adam to taste the forbidden fruit, or Samson entrusted his hair to Delilah and so on.  A shining example is Martin Scorcese's Casino where drugged-out Ginger, portrayed by Sharon Stone, leads Sam, portrayed by Robert DeNiro, into ruin.  I hate that.  I think it's misogynistic.More recent depictions of groups of women have taken on a Sex in the City flair, case in point is the Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood.  I find these depictions uninteresting popular fantasies that attempt to empower women by shooting them full of testosterone, creating in them the lasciviousness of men.  Yes, it empowers women by tearing down traditional sexual roles, but ignores a serious multi-dimensional look of women's lives in total.Lovely & Amazing portrayed women in total.  It is the story of a Mother and her two daughters at a time of growth and change in their lives.One important symbolic scene depicts one of the daughters, Elizabeth (portrayed by Emily Mortimer), naked asking to be told the truth about her body.  She hears that one breast is slightly larger than the other, that her pubic hair needs to be trimmed, that one eye is larger than the other, that her upper arms are a little flabby, and her teeth are a little yellow.  She also hears that her breast look beautifully natural, that her hips are wonderful and that she is well proportioned.  Through this scene we realize that Elizabeth is beautiful because of her imperfections.  We remember why the statue of the Venus De Milo with her missing arms and legs is so beautiful.  This one scene is the essence of the film and what I seek in these types of films.  The entire film reaches for truth and honesty in the depiction of the main characters.  The mother, Jane Marks (portrayed by Brendy Blethyn), daughter Michelle (portrayed by Catherien Keener) and Elizabeth genuinely depict the lives of these women and their inner turmoil.Jake Gyllinhaal and Dermot Mulroney turn in some fine work as the love interests that truly appreciated the Keener and Mortimer characters.My one small problem with the film was that watching it made me feel a little like listening to Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings (used often, most famously perhaps at JFK's funeral and in Oliver Stone's village burning scene in Platoon) where the music reaches mournfully higher and higher, never consumating the notes or the emotions until the very end.  I love that music and this film, but it would have been nice if the film provided some resting points along the way.My score is 9 out of 10 or ***3/4* out of ****. "},{"Title":"Depressing & Ridiculous","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lovely & Amazing has to be one of the worst movies of the year.  The acting was terrible (and I normally love Brenda Blethyn and Catherine Keener), the script was poorly written, and so many of the scenes were simply not believable at all.  And why did all the characters in the movie have to be such losers?  I wanted to leave halfway through, but against my better judgement I stayed hoping it would get better.  It didn't! "},{"Title":"Even the little black kid has some serious white-girl problems&#x85;","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We boosted L&A to the top of our Netflix queue because we wanted to see more of Emily Mortimer after the second season of Doll & Em, though quite honestly I never expected to see this much&#x85; In one of her first US roles, she plays Elizabeth Marks, an aspiring actress with body-image issues; her sister Michelle (Catherine Keener) has impulse-control issues and stubbornly clings to the fantasy of being an artist, though no one wants to buy her work. Their adopted sister Annie (Raven Goodwin), thought she's only eight, is working on some issues of her own&#x97;floating face down in the pool until someone makes a fuss, for example&#x85; This one isn't recommended for those who don't like films with flawed or unlikable characters, but w/d Nicole Holofcener does a fine job of showing how these little tics and compulsions can take over our lives Elizabeth's fetish for physical perfection isn't a good fit with her habit of picking up (or kidnapping) lost dogs, as it turns out, and Michelle's sullen and vindictive approach to life leads, step by step, to a disastrous indiscretion with jailbait Jake Gyllenhaal (then barely out of his teens). Great performances, believable characters (none of the standard quirky indie stuff), ingenious script (the parallels between the two older sisters' subplots are very nicely worked out, Seinfeld style) and a fine 360° view of a jaybird-naked Emily Mortimer&#x85; "},{"Title":"complicated women movie","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Marks (Brenda Blethyn) is going through cosmetic surgery for her vanity. She has three daughters. Michelle Marks (Catherine Keener) is a former homecoming queen afraid of falling behind. She's unable to sell her craft projects and has no job. Her husband Bill (Clark Gregg) is cheating on her. Elizabeth Marks (Emily Mortimer) is an insecure minor actress who may be on her way up. Annie Marks (Raven Goodwin) is their black adopted little sister and Lorraine (Aunjanue Ellis) is from the Big Sister program. Elizabeth gets involved with actor Kevin McCabe (Dermot Mulroney) and Michelle gets involved with young co-worker Jordan (Jake Gyllenhaal).These are complicated women, all with their own inner fears. I started to wonder whether there is anything more than that. There are a lot of first world problems going on here. It's not until Jake Gyllenhaal at half hour in before I get the first laugh. This movie is in need of a lot more humor. Brenda Blethyn falls down and can't get up. I'm not sure if that was suppose to be funny. It spends its time wading through their awkward inner pains with some weird awkward scenes. They are interesting but not funny or compelling. "},{"Title":"A slice of life about 3 sisters and their mother living an upper middle class life in New York - but a life full of shadows and nuances.","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, this movie was authentic. But that was the problem. I don't look for escapism at the movies - not at all. But I do look for an intensification of regular humdrum life. If being authentic means being humdrum - well, to me that isn't art. Everything was so understated; what was missing was real drama or conflict. We were supposed to feel some sort of redemption at the end, but it didn't happen because the audience just wasn't emotionally engaged. I mean the protagonists were recognizable, but elicited no strong feelings in this viewer. Well, at least it was a cautionary tale about liposuction. I really have nothing more to say, but the guidelines require a 10-line review, so yada yada yada.... "},{"Title":"Friends with Money","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What's the worst possible thing you can call a woman? You're probably thinking of words like s**t, w***e, b***h, c**t, s**k. Okay, now, what are the worst things you can call a guy? F**, girl, b***h, p***y. I've even heard the term 'm*****a'. Notice anything? The worst thing you can call a girl is a girl. The worst thing you can call a guy is a girl. Being a woman is the ultimate insult. Now tell me that's not royally f****d up. - Jessica ValentiWomen are nothing but machines for producing children. - Napoleon There aren't many female directors who manage to command a global film release. Kathryn Bigelow does, but then she essentially makes big action movies. Meanwhile, smaller female directors like Jane Campion, Claire Denis and Kelly Reichardt go unknown. Recent polls even suggest a sharp decline in the number of working female film directors over the past 20 years, at least in Hollywood. In Europe, the opposite seems to be true, though again few flock to see their films. Catherine Breillat's stopped scaring audiences and started scaring financiers.So Nicole Holofcener is a bit of an anomaly. She's not necessary a good director, but she's a woman, and her films, which are almost all romantic dramedies and/or light satires, do enough to differentiate her from other genre film-makers. Perhaps Holofcener's best film, though perhaps also her most unintentionally sinister, Lovely and Amazing tracks the lives of several women (a mother, 2 daughters and an adopted daughter), all of whom suffer from various inferiority complexes. Most of these self-esteem issues stem from anxieties regarding self image, masculine expectations, and racial or class based insecurities. So one character feels shameful for being black, another for being overweight, another for ageing, another for not being sexy, another for not having a job etc. Some characters, as is typical of Holofcener's films, are even guilty/insecure because they're better than others, either financially or physically. The film does well to present real women, complete with desires, insecurities, hangups and neuroses. Holofcener's cast eschew flattering lighting and make up, her script is consistently funny and/or riveting, and the film contains a number of powerful moments, like one incident in which a woman's body is frankly judged by her lover, and another in which we learn that a depressed kid has been secretly drowning her sorrows at a local fast food joint. Unfortunately things take a dubious turn in Lovely and Amazing's final act. The film initially portrays its men in a quite cynical light &#x96; they're all judgemental, distant and aloof - and recognises that its female characters are anxious precisely because they define themselves via the gaze of the Male Other, or, in some cases, even other women. But when our female characters then assert their independence, break free from a certain patriarchal thumb or even claim the Male Gaze for themselves, they're swiftly and severely punished (physical disfigurements, rape charges, desexualization etc) by Holofcener. To demand power and the transaction of the gaze is to risk destruction. The film then suggests that the only way to successfully remove oneself from the gaze, from being forced to define oneself in the eyes of another's desires, is to remove oneself totally from all sexuality. In this regard the film ends with our women secluded, asexual, disfigured and back in their ancestral home; 3 lost, desexualised daughters under the eye of a matriarch. Whether Holofcener's being unintentionally reactionary or intentionally critical, is unknown.More conventional is Holofcener's Friends With Money, which plays like a sprawling, inferior version of her later film, Please Give. Here the plot centres on several loosely connected friends, all with their own foibles. One subplot involves a woman going through an angry midlife crisis, another involves a husband who may or may not be gay, another involves several women who are either jealous of their own wealth or ashamed of their poverty, whilst another involves a woman struggling with her increasingly distant husband. As with most of Holofcener's film, two themes are given prominence. The first is the question of how one is able to be an agent of compassion in a social system in which individual self interest is given primacy, the second is a subplot in which a woman's artistic passions are repeatedly crushed by financial necessities. The radiant Catherine Keener stars in both films. Emiley Mortimer gives a brave performance in Lovely and Amazing. Despite being about women, both films are resoundingly male-centric, womanhood defined entirely by one's relationship to men.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, funny and lovely film about one thing that never dies people's insecurities.","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Janie's a pretty typical teenager. Angry, insecure, confused. I wish I could tell her that's all going to pass, but I don't want to lie to her. . Such quote from American Beauty perfectly matches with what the characters of Lovely and Amazing has to deal while living their lives. Insecurity is the key word here and from what we get it never goes away. It follows you since childhood and goes through the adulthood and old age, again and again. Meet Marks family. The matriarch (Brenda Blethyn) and her three daughters Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer), an actress with ongoing problems while trying to be star of a new movie while dealing with appearance issues, after all that's what Hollywood is all about. She's pretty but she doesn't believe much in that and having an audition along with a hot male star (Dermot Mulroney) doesn't seem to be appropriate for her who is a nervous wreck. The artist Michelle (Catherine Keener) who fails at living from her artsy objects, trying to sell things she believes are good and well-made but she doesn't have the skills to promoting in shops, whispering insults to whoever turns her down and her work. Another fear of her is not being attractive to her husband (Clark Gregg) who seems to be tired of her art and her physics but he doesn't say that. And at last we have the young Annie (Raven Goodwin), dealing with many childhood issues. She is a African American girl who was adopted by this white family and her problems have to do a little with that because she wants to be like her new sisters and mother are rather than being the daughter of a crack addict, the only thing she know her real mother was. Annie express her insecurities by trying to call attention to what she's doing, most of the time it involves pretending to be drown in a pool or make out loud remarks about being bored. And we can forget about the matriarch who's having an surgery to lose weight that caused some complications to worry everyone in the family. Once again, insecurity's striking again. She simply wants to be thinner.Not everything leads to desperation. Even with all those problems, the sisters seem to attract some genuine reactions from people around here but sometimes that's not enough to take them out of their worrying state. Jane has the friendship of a teacher (Aunjanue Ellis) who is very helpful to her, partly because she understands Annie, they're similar in a way putting aside she's the only black person she knows; Elizabeth dumps her boyfriend (James LeGros) and starts to get real involved with the actor she acted along on the audition, however she's too fragile and frightened with such relation; and Michelle quits her art, get a job working at a one hour photo place where her boss is the young Jordan (Jake Gyllenhaal, so funny!) who's deeply attracted to her despite she's being a little old for him. What appeals in Lovely and Amazing is the humorous approach given by director/writer Nicole Holofcner on a theme that is fairly depressive. I mean, who wants to see a film that deals with people's problems? We all have our own to take care but no, she makes it something to be seen, to admire, to make us think and see that things, sometimes, are not bad as we think they are. It's a funny and light film, but it only touches the skin of the problem, it's not excessively dramatic nor doesn't go too deep in its chorus, presenting some reflections on why we're all chaotic and can't escape the chaos but it never goes in a horrid and scary way. It's funny because she isn't mocking stereotypes, she's concerned with those issues yet she can see through them and see something funny in them, or at least in the situations she presents. There's some morbid parts involving Annie who keeps teasing people with her pool joke but that's the far the movie goes to make us feel alarmed. One of the most surprising films of 2001, Lovely and Amazing is also one of the greatest indie films ever made, far from so many pretentious works around. So sad it isn't more known. I thought it was going to be another Friends with Money (also directed by Holofcner) but it turned out to be quite superior in its storytelling, which is funnier and more intelligent. Forget the aspect of this being a chick flick, I really think men should watch it regardless of that. It would make them a little more comprehensive towards women. Or maybe more aware of they go through. Or even more scared of them. They would think twice before saying anything mean to them about their looks and their internal aspects as well. I can only hope Holofcner one day make a similar film dealing with male insecurities. Women would be shocked and laugh real hard at that. Just something to think about. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Aren't you going to give me a smile or something?","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holofcener has got an eye for telling stories about modern-day relationships, particularly the relationships women have with others. Her films are insightful and they even depict an uncomfortable truth about human behaviour and how mean and even cruel people can be without even realizing. 'Lovely and Amazing' focuses on the family Marks, a family of women that include Jane mother of three eager to get liposuction to lose weight, Michelle, the obnoxious, self-involved mean older daughter who has a dysfunctional relationship with everyone, the insecure younger daughter Elizabeth who is a struggling actress and the youngest is ten-year-old Annie, who wants to look like her mother and sisters. These dysfunctional sisters, though never overtly hostile or aggressive with each other, they merely seem to just get along. However, Jane's hospitalization brings them close to each other but in an unexpected way.Director Holofcener very subtly portrays the tenderness of each character and the intimacy in their relationships. There are no sugarcoated melodramatic spoonfeeding for the viewer. The relationship with the mother is also a key element and the viewer witnesses that each sister has a different bond with her.I only thought that the portrayal of the men was a bit one sided as all of them are shown to be inconsiderate jerks. However, this is clearly a film about women and Brenda Blethyn, Catherine Keener and Emily Mortimer do a wonderful job. Raven Goodwin does a brilliant job too. Her Annie is perhaps the sum of the personality of her sisters. Of the supporting cast, Aunjanue Ellis and Clark Gregg do a fine job.In terms of execution, thankfully there's nothing too flashy. The lighting, cinematography, score and editing are fine. Product placement is quite obvious in places. 'Lovely & Amazing' is an insightful look at the relationship between modern day women. The stars of this film are Nicole Holofcener and her actresses. "},{"Title":"real characters","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the few movies that will forever be ingrained in my memory, for it's depiction of real life women, neurosis and all. Although, entirely too short and with too abrupt an ending, it packs many a subtle clue to the makeup of each character. Not one of which  is left without its soft belly revealed and not one glamorous cliche hiding their human condition. This movie is as real as it gets. Rather than give you a blow by blow account of the plot, I would rather just say it's more than worth renting. Especially to those who are bored with hollywood formula films or hollywood films that attempt to have an independent edge. This movie is true to itself and the viewer, through and through.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining and thought-provoking film; original and moving.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the Sydney Film Festival recently (June, 2002) and enjoyed it very much.  I am not a regular at the festival (second time in 9 years), and I rarely go to see films outside of the mainstream.  But I am glad I was taken to see Lovely & Amazing with friends.I found the film to be refreshing and thought-provoking.  It was a very accessible storyline, simple, yet meaningful.  I admired all the performances, especially Catherine Keener.I liked the honesty of the film.  The film is about the relationships between three sisters and their mother, and explores the relationships they have with men and (especially in the case of the youngest girl) with other women.I'd also say that the film has a very feminine perspective, which, for me, was very refreshing and also very balanced.  There are several male characters in the story, each seen through the eyes of the women.  While some men treat the women with contempt, others enrich their lives.  In my own simple terms, I thought this was a refreshing change from the usual depiction of male/female relationships in movies today.I also appreciated the careful handling of the youngest girl's weight problem.  By 'careful', I mean that it was made clear how this young girl develops her self-esteem based on adult perceptions and opinions.  This complex issue was delicately handled and treated with honesty.The only aspect I did not like about the film was a technical one - the film was photographed on HD video and although it is well-lit and nicely composed, the image is noticeably fuzzy in many scenes.  Film would have looked a lot better.Sean Ellis. "}{"Title":"Lovely & Amazingly Skinny.","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 5 minutes into the movie no Jake Gyllenhaal. So far so good.15 minutes into the movie. L&A is clearly not gearing up to be a classic. But at least there is still no Gyllenhaal in sight.30 minutes into the movie. The movie is nothing special, with relatively interesting but slightly to very annoying characters, to the most part. But Jake hasn't made his appearance yet, so I am not complaining.37 minutes. There he is, and not a moment too late. With funny hair, that annoying drowsy gaze, a perpetual grin that replaces any acting he might have to do, and a voice gentler than a mermaid's the male movie star of this new, demented age. The scene in which Keener gets arrested is when his nepotistic acting method hits its absolute low.I am quite satisfied with L&A's (adult) casting, apart from Jake who sticks out among these names like a sore thumb Mulroney, Keener, Mortimer, Blethyn, Le Gros&#x85; Gyllenhaal. See what I mean? A very sore thumb indeed. Soft-voiced as ever, the prototype of the spoiled, effeminate, silver-spoon-fed, metrosexual Beverly-Hills-bred nepotistic preppie brat, Jake is about as welcome in a movie as a dead rat in a cheeseburger proof that nowadays literally A-N-Y-O-N-E can be manufactured into a Hollywood star, provided they have strong financial backing and even stronger family connections. A few strings get pulled, and voila you get your own movie career, without even having to go through all that hassle in those bothersome, needless auditions. Mama and Papa Gyllenhaal needed a favour from a long-time friend, and a favour is what they got and so the turdavalanche started rolling. (Now they even cast this dweeb in historic hero roles! But you the viewer are to blame; you fuel garbage by purchasing tickets to any old filmic crap they serve you.) Gyllenhaal is such a dork that we viewers have trouble understanding why a 36 year-old married woman such as Keener (even though no beauty) would get involved with such a milk-faced, apathetic, gamma-male nerd. Still, compliments will get you far; perhaps that's how this is supposed to work. (I'm referring to his character showering Keener with adulation.) Or perhaps we're actually meant to accept Jake as a sexy hunk who sweeps women off their feet. Sort of like Adrien Brody is supposed to be a macho killing-machine in the cretinous remake of Predator? Yes, that sort of bloody casting nonsense.Well, I sure am glad the movie's title refers to the only lovely person in the movie, Emily Mortimer. I'm not sure about amazing, but she's got half the title covered &#x96; which is more than can be said about the other female characters here. Brenda Blethyn has never been this annoying; I don't know if it's because she plays a dumb lipo-suction-happy yenta or because they made her do an American accent. Did the director Holofcener think it implausible for an English woman to live in the States and have kids that spoke with an American accent? But it's all the (moronic) rage these days, hiring British and American actors to do each other's accents. That annoys me even more than Blethyn's stupidity. (I mean the character she plays.)As for Mortimer asking Mulroney to give her an assessment of her physical flaws &#x96; may I volunteer, please? OK, first of all, you're too skinny, bordering on all-out anorexic. What about my arms? Too skinny. Your breasts are nice, perfect from the front. No, Emily; Dermot is lying. Your breasts WERE nice, back when you had some actual flesh on your bones; your boobs in that daft Ewan McGregor drama were larger back then the good old times when you actual inserted some food into your mouth now and again. In Holofcener's defense, Mortimer's character does in fact get picked on slightly for not eating. Keener is too skinny also. These two women would look a lot better if they hadn't succumbed to the pressures of modern standards of beauty (dictated to us by fashion designers and other fashion-world/movie-world non-heterosexuals). I would have preferred though if Holofcener had made a stronger, clearer stand against anorexia and cosmetic surgery. Still, at least she brought it up.The black girl is first given refreshingly realistic lines, sounding like an actual child &#x96; a rarity in American movies. However, that first impression was soon ruined when she gradually started speaking more like an adult, or at least a teenager. Remember, she's only 8 here; she should have been picking her nose and eating boogers instead of sarcastically quipping on people's lack of humour when she tells her racial jokes.Speaking of which, the girl ruins the Jews-and-blacks joke by mumbling the punchline. I only understood the second part of the sentence &#x85; or should I steal it. Still, it seemed like a good joke, a bit of un-PC fun, just a minute after that annoying statement by the black woman about how she has it tougher than anyone in her family because you are black. I hope this is not Holofcener's own view, because if it is then she must be a bloody brainwashed moron, yet another deluded liberal reciting the official party line (the donkey party is referred to, of course). There are other instances of the black girl flubbing lines by making them utterly incomprehensible. Out of thousands of fat black girls available for movie roles, Holofcener casts one that can't even speak properly nice.In fact, I'm not even sure what Holofcener was hoping to achieve with the black girl's character. Either that girl can't act at all, or she was supposed to look as if she didn't care about Blethyn (her adoptive mother) recovering in the hospital. Perhaps both she can't act AND she isn't supposed to care.Certainly this director had much more success with Walking & Talking, a funny, well-written indie film. L&A is merely OK. "},{"Title":"Someone Give Emily Mortimer Some Love Already!","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film's certainly not amazing, but it is rather lovely.Catherine Keener, Emily Mortimer and Brenda Blethyn play two sisters and their mom, respectively, all struggling with insecurity and self-image problems that interfere with their ability to have healthy relationships with others. Blethyn's character goes for cosmetic surgery, while Keener's lashes out rudely at people who don't want to buy her art. But the film's heart and soul is Emily Mortimer, a fantastic actress who's gone under-appreciated for far too long. The film's most memorable and heartbreaking scene is the one in which she stands naked in front of her boyfriend and demands that he point out all of her physical flaws, prodding him so aggressively that he transforms from reluctant to enthusiastic about the little project before our very eyes.Not groundbreaking, but full of terrific acting and touching moments.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this in a women's studies film series. It is a very complex, but amazing movie. It covers so many issues that plague our society, from body image, racism, and sexism, to adoption and relationships. Basically, it's the story of a mother and her three daughters who are all broken in one way or another and how they are able to come to terms with the reality of their lives. There's no hero in this movie, no true voice of reason, and that's what makes it more believable, as it emulates reality in so many ways. It's impossible not to empathize with at least one of the characters and the film poses some interesting questions about how we view ourselves and others.It's definitely a must-see for mothers and daughters. "},{"Title":"Nice enough","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clearly a chick flick, but grows on you and certainly more heartfelt and sincere than other films of its genre.  I was pleasantly surprised.  Particularly, the performances of the lead actresses is what carried the movie. "},{"Title":"Jake Gyllenhaal will be typecast!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER  Here Jake Gyllenhaal reprises his role as the adolescent roue who somehow ends up bedding the lead (and much older actress) as he does here with Catherine Keener and with Jennifer Aniston in The Good Girl.  He is perfectly cast, though, with his dark sultry looks and scary wild eyes.That distracting fact aside, this movie was wonderful! The real life connection between Catherine Keener and Dermot Mulroney (real life marrieds) could have been exploited, but wasn't.  Disappointing!The only criticism I have is that the movie has no ending.  SPOILER  You don't know if Ms. Keener will have to go to jail, or how her relationship with her husband ends up.  The other actors' stories have missing endings as well.   I guess that is the arty thing to do, but still, that was quite annoying to me!!Brenda Blethyn isn't on camera enough and Emily Mortimer was fresh and truly lovely and amazing.  I always love Catherine Keener's quirkiness, too.  Brenda Blethyn really wasn't old enough (only 14 years her senior) to be the mother of Catherine, though, which really confused me at the outset of the movie when they were establishing the characters.  But all in all, I rated this movie a 7 out of 10.  I recommend The Good Girl, too!!  "},{"Title":"3 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about Jane Marks (Brenda Blethyn) and her three daughters. Jane is reasonably well off but is getting older and heavier, and, hoping to improve her love life, decides to undergo liposuction. Besides herself, she also obsesses about how *other* things look, buying so many pillows to put on her bed that one of her daughters remarks that there is nowhere to sleep. And Jane is also very particular about how they are arranged.Jane's oldest daughter is Michelle (Catherine Keener). Michelle was the high school homecoming queen, continuing the image obsession pattern, but that seems to have been the high point of her life. She is married with one daughter, but the marriage is far from a happy one. She makes crafts, exemplified by some overdone miniature chairs, and tries unsuccessfully to sell them. She is a very angry woman, using the F-word frequently and wondering why other people don't do the same. She hasn't ever had a real job.The next daughter is Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer), who is an actress with some small level of success but is very insecure. She is unmarried and has no children, although she is unable to resist bringing home stray dogs. Her nature journalist boyfriend is no help in the self esteem department, seemingly having infinite disdain for everything she does. When we first see Elizabeth, she is posing for a photo for a fashion magazine to promote a film she has a small part in. She is uncomfortable with the clothes and with the heavy makeup, but reluctantly goes along with the shoot anyway because she doesn't feel she has a choice.The final daughter is much younger. Annie (first time actress Raven Goodwin) is an 8 year old adopted black girl who is close to her mother but not her two much older sisters. She is overweight, but her image issues also involve her skin color and her hair. She freely tells anyone who asks that her birth mother was a crack addict.The men in the film have smaller roles because this is a film about (but not exclusively for) women. They include Jane's cosmetic surgeon, Michelle's husband, Elizabeth's boyfriend, Kevin McCabe (a star who Elizabeth reads for a part with, played by Dermot Mulroney), and one more I won't mention since to explain his role would give away a small plot point.Okay, if you insist. If you want to avoid learning more about the plot, *skip the rest of this paragraph and all of the next one...*  Michelle does eventually decide to take a real job, although she just takes the first job she sees, developing snapshots at a one hour photo place. Despite the fact that Michelle reminds her 17 year old boss (Jake Gyllenhaal) of his mother, he is attracted to her (he does comment that his mother is cute).*keep skipping* The scene that is most talked about is one in which Elizabeth stands naked in front of Kevin McCabe and insists that he critique her body with complete honesty. He agrees only under extreme duress. She is particularly self conscious about her arms, which she believes are flabby but which he does not mention until she asks.This is the second film that writer/director Nicole Holofcener has made, and I think that she has succeeded very well in making a highly original film with very interesting characters. Some people feel that the dialog is very good, although on occasion it felt a bit off to me. The story doesn't really go much of anywhere, but that's not really the point of a film like this. The acting was uniformly very good among the adult Marks women. I thought Raven Goodwin was also very good as Annie, which is slightly surprising since the only other child in the film was Michelle's daughter, who may not even have had any lines (I can't remember any).I did not learn until after the film had ended that it had been shot on 24 frame/second high definition video and later transferred to film. While the look is not that of a highly polished Hollywood film, the quality of the picture was fine throughout.I saw the film at the Camera Cinema Club in San Jose, CA on 7/14/2002. It is recommended to anyone who likes original independent films.  "},{"Title":"Insecure & Wretched","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is hardly an uplifting story.  The characters are wretched, and encounter nothing but bad luck.  But while Holofcener's women are not perfect, they're sympathetic.  They all want to be something lovely and amazing (or at least, what they think is Lovely and Amazing).Brenda Blethyn's Jane wants to be a loving virgin mother archetype.  She only ends up acting selfish and lonely.  Catherine Keener's Michelle wants to be a honest, smart-ass artist.  But she's only timid and rather witless. And her homemade chairs suck.  Emily Mortimer's Elizabeth wants to rise above the shallow pseudo-prostitution of an acting career, but she's just as narcissistic as the rest.  And it the best role for a child in years, not to mention an engaging treatment on race, Raven Goodwin's Annie wants to be a beautiful little white girl, but she's really a fat black girl.  This is a sensitive subject, obviously, but Holofcener handles it with depth and tact - especially with Annie's black Big Sister Lorraine (Aunjanue Ellis of Undercover Brother).The men have a harder time than the women.  They all act just as horrible, of course - but they don't have noble, tragically unfulfilled motives. The one exception is Photo Clerk Jordan, and that's thanks to Jake Gyllenhaal's superb job more than Holocefners' job.But however bleak and tragic the story, Holocefner is still a superbly talented women, in a town where there are too few female directors - she deserves accolades.  And a 'No Boob Job Required' pass to success. "},{"Title":"Raven Goodwin makes it all worth watching","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The adorable young actress Raven Goodwin made this film worth watching to me, perfect in her role as a black girl adopted into a white family of very insecure women who can learn a thing or two from her.This movie was mostly a delight to watch, though for me it was ruined by a completely un-called-for anti-gay slur by the mother in the film.  There I was completely involved in the lives of these people, trying to empathize with them, when out of the blue I get slapped with this bizarre insult against gays.  I have no idea how the director felt it appropriate to have this in the film.  I would have rented the film and watched it again - or taken others to see the film - if this insult had not popped up in it.  It made me dislike the main character and lose interest in her well-being.The movie does have some very unexpected turns of events, best of which is when one of the neurotic older sisters has an affair with a high school student - very beautifully played by Jake Gyllenhaal.  And there is some suspence... until the very end you won't know if it is going to have a happy ending or sad ending.  That's good.  But gay moviegoers should be forewarned that you will be slapped in the face with an insult about half-way through the film.  "},{"Title":"interesting view into a family of women","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  if you are expecting a light and airy feel-good movie, please do not go to see lovely and amazing.  however, if you are in the mood to pull down the curtain on the lives of three sisters and a mother who seems more friend than parent, than go to see this film.the acting is first-rate and you feel as though you are a fly on the wall going through the days with these women.  all of the men, save the sweet seventeen-year old, are scoundrels or worse.pay careful attention to the dialogue or you will miss some intriguing bits of information. "},{"Title":"It's an interesting, truthful, and thought-provoking story that has a lot of wit and charm.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"          Disillusionment is the name of the game for three sisters and their mother in the film `Lovely & Amazing.' From a mediocre artist, an unrecognized actress, and an adopted sister and a mother who are obsessed with improving their looks, `Lovely & Amazing' is about four women who are each a little obsessive and compulsive in their own way. It's an interesting, truthful, and thought-provoking story that has a lot of wit and charm, but never really seems to have any resolve for its characters. However, that's the central idea-people are who they are and some of them, regardless of the events in their lives, don't change.	`Lovely & Amazing' tells the story about a woman named Jane (Brenda Blethyn) and her three daughters, an aspiring actress named Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer), a less than average artist named Michelle (Catherine Keener), and her adopted black daughter named Annie (Raven Goodwin). The film follows the exploits of the three daughters as their mother is in the hospital for liposuction.  As their mother is in recovery, Elizabeth finds herself going to an audition and not being able to live up to the expectations of the filmmakers-ultimately affecting her own personality as she suffers from neurotic behavior on improving herself. Michelle tries to sell her run of the mill artwork with no luck and ends up taking a job in a one-hour photo store. And Annie tries to improve her looks, as she wishes she had white skin like her adopted mother, and wants to be a thinner, better looking girl.  	The quality of the film rests in the idea that it presents its characters with a great deal of truth. People are flawed and those flaws come out through our attitudes, expressions, and the like. Although these women all find themselves in situations where they should learn something better about themselves, it seems as if they abandon the possibility of change and stick with the norm-with the exception of one of the girls, Annie. Annie is different from the other three women, not so much because of her race, but for the simple matter that she has different birth parents. What's more, although her birth mother was a `crack head,' as Annie describes her, her mother undoubtedly had talents and abilities that she couldn't see or master because of her drug addiction. Those traits carried on into Annie, unlike the other two women, Michelle and Emily, who seem just as obsessive and compulsive as their natural mother, Jane.  	The writing and direction by Nicole Holofcener was great. Her writing reflects the notion that each of these women is imperfect, but they are all somewhat beautiful in their own ways. Each possesses a quality that no other has. Michelle has the ability to be forthright and frank with people, while Emily has the ability to care for things that are abandoned, such as her collection of stray dogs. While Annie is still young, only 8, she possesses the abilities, like Michelle, to be candid with people and she's a good swimmer. Jane suffers from loneliness in her life and wants to care for someone, so she adopts Annie, even though Jane is a middle-aged woman.	All in all, `Lovely & Amazing' is a good movie, generally geared towards a female audience. However, some guys will have the ability to appreciate it for its superb direction, writing, acting, and flat out honesty. ***  "}{"Title":"Wretched & Depressing","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning Maybe a spoiler, but I don't think so.Lovely & Amazing sketches/illustrates/illuminates a slice of life of several  intertwined characters. It falls into that category of films (what I think of as the  Short Cut class) that assumes completely erroneously that (1) presentingpainfully intimate, detailed vignettes of characters whose lives are completely out  of control, who are rendered nearly immobile with despair, and who have no clue  whatsoever how or even whether to save themselves, (2) building these vignettes  to a crisis climax of sorts, (3) having the cast collectively smile wanly at a partial  resolution of a major plot point, then gamely move on, and (4) ending abruptly on  that note without the faintest attempt at explaining or resolving the characters'  primal crises--that 1+2+3+4 equals cinematic profundity. This is so not true it  makes my skin crawl. Cheat me, trick me, jerk my tears, but don't EVER leave me  with less than I came in with. And especially don't ever expect me to believe you  know more than you're telling, 'cause all the evidence is against you.I didn't even realize the darn thing was over until the credits came up. For a  moment I actually thought they'd cut the closing scene from the dvd.What makes my assessment all the more painful is that the cast gave it everything  they had. Keener, Blethyn, and Mortimer were all very good, as were thesupporters, notably Raven Goodwin in a performance of supremely nonchalantnihilism. Doggone it, this movie shoulda gone somewhere! But, sad to say,director/writer Holofcener couldn't think of anywhere to go.To paraphrase in closing There are more things in heaven and earth, Holofcener,  than are dreamt of in your filmosophy . . . "},{"Title":"Neither Lovely, nor Amazing","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***CONTAINS SPOILERS*** This is an art-house chick-flick that is admittedly very funny in terms of some dialogue, but mostly annoying for its contrived, unrealistic characters, and insulting for its negative treatment of men. The plot concerns a woman (Brenda Blethyn who is very fine and looks better than her daughters, even though she undergoes liposuction due to low self-esteem) and her two daughters. All three are major whiners, but at least the mother has a purposeful life, raising an adopted child. One daughter (Catherine Keener) is a whining bitch, who never gives anybody else a break, but is incensed at being treated badly by others. Many of her scenes are funny for their outrageousness. Unemployed, she makes 'artsy-craftsy' ugly things that no one will buy. In more than one scene, she enters a trendy boutique with a boxful of art objects and an attitude. Ugly confrontations with shopowners ensue. She ends up having an affair with a teenage guy (very good Jake Gylenhaal) who gives her a job in a one-hour photo because she reminds him of his 'cute' mother(ugh!). Their affair is aborted by Keener's arrest after the kid's mother calls the police. Her somewhat prettier sister (Emily Mortimer) is an emaciated whiner who wants to be an actress, but has no talent or personal charisma. Her boyfriend (handsome James Le Gros) becomes so exasperated that he breaks up with her by saying you don't want a boyfriend, you want a girlfriend. It's true, these women all depend on men for their self-esteem, but they have contempt for men, and only really want to whine to their friends and siblings.The men, in the meantime are treated stereotypically and unfairly. The teenager is a manufactured storybook character. Is it 'charming' that Keener reminds him of his mother? The movie star (sexy Dermot Mulroney who in one scene sports swimming trunks) is a not very bright jerk, who has a 'magical' turnaround when the skinny actress asks him to critique her nude body (a service she is unfortunately not asked to perform for him). This review session supposedly humanizes both characters and the movie star falls for her.While Keener has a nice-guy husband (Clark Gregg) who is so tired of her complaining, nastiness and refusal to work that he has an affair with one of her friends. His character is barely there. Underwritten and two-dimensional, he is only allowed to react to her actions.The emotional sounding board for all this angst is an 8-yr old black girl (Raven Goodwin in an impressive turn) who was adopted by Blethyn. So, this kid is the younger 'sister' of the neurotic older ones. She is self-possessed about being black and chubby and obviously meant to contrast with the three neurotic older women. This infuriates Keener, who constantly tries to alter the kid's diet, while another African-American character unsuccessfully tries to instill the child with 'black anger'. In the end, through utter contrivance, bitch and kid are reconciled, the mother's botched liposuction-lesson-in-life is over, and skinny has some scarred self-esteem. It's all so schematic and so very clever. As an antidote, watch YOU CAN COUNT ON ME. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since there are so many decent movies dealing with the subject very ordinary people having very severe problems to manage their lives there are not too many reasons for watching this one (which is not decent at all, not even good, and certainly neigher lovely nor amazing).I do not think that there is anything like a story, otherwise I would say the story is insipid. A featureless plot does of course not necessarily mean a movie's ruin, but if in addition the acting is so poor and lethargic as it is the case in Lovely and Amazing (Catherine Keener being the only bright spot)...As for the character of Annie - I must have missed the point. For me she was the most digusting character of the whole stupid movie. A fat, spoiled, very US-American little girl who happens to be black. So what?Sorry, but I could not take a fancy to this one. For me it was rather a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"The Three Sisters (Not Chekhov's...)","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This comedy directed and written by Nicole Holofcener is a refreshing detour into territory never touched by the powers that be in the main studios. Ms. Holofcener is to be congratulated by her light touch of the story and the whimsical approach to go behind the lives of these  different sisters and a mother that's just as nutty as well.Catherine Keener strikes the right note in this film. She's a very intelligent actress who always rings true no matter what the situation she's in, or whatever character she's portraying. It's incredible that this actress is not more widely known since she deserves a lot of credit by staying in films that don't have that great distribution.Emily Mortimer is a free soul that always gets involved with the wrong guy. She's resilient enough to keep on going on to the next relationship or role with the same eagerness to please that makes her such a welcome presence.There are two very nice surprises in the film. First of all, Brenda Blethyn is incredible as the mother of these women. She's a typical California matron of a certain age and she captures the essence of her character to perfection. Then, there is young Raven Goodwin, who is the youngest one of the 3 sisters with a lot of problems of her own, but who can hold herself against such accomplished actresses. The cast, which includes James LeGros, Dermot Mulroney and Jake Gyllenhaal work very well together. The scene of the party after the premiere of the film where Ms. Mortimer's best work is cut to almost nothing is an acerb look at all the phoniness of that world, very well captured, specially the agent, who comes across as a monster. There's not a phoney line of dialogue in this film. Let's hope that Ms. Holofcener will not have to wait for her next picture and that she'll stay a free spirit to tell it as she sees fit, without any interference of the big guys in the major studios. "},{"Title":"B/W Errors","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why is it that the worst movies require the most time to write about after pondering and pondering the memories of the screening?This film needs lots of help -- or I need to wear magic glasses while viewing.  I don't know where to begin, but I must try.This film is too long for its meager content and fractured development. There is too much dialogue that is inane &#150; perhaps insane -- and not connective to the flow of the film.  This film is not a comedy as advertised -- but in its execution it is a tragedy of bad writing and directing and editing.  And mostly, too long in length.Being too long, there is a cure(1) eliminate the voices of every character and make it a silent movie; (2) eliminate the cozy-comfy black child unless we jump to item (5); (3) eliminate the mother and her liposuction fantasy; (4) eliminate all men; (5) add silent film banners of dialogue, like in Our Gang films; (6) set a limit of 20 minutes total time &#150; opening entry to final credits -- such as in a Student Film suitable for any undergraduate school; (7) animate whatever is left with digital tools that would capture all other characters not otherwise eliminated.   And do this animation digitally and with flowing, fleeting brush strokes that move us from character to character, scene to scene, moment to moment.  Rely mostly on the skill of the animator to convey substance and content; otherwise, add a textual banner to assist transition.The END RESULTSomething that would be an interesting flash in the pan that would keep theattention of the audience; andSomething that could be nominated and awarded recognition at the year 2002 Academy of Motion Arts and Sciences award for Student Films.  (hey, I recently attended the 2001 AMPAS Student Film screenings in Beverly Hill, CA, USA at no cost! and was in AWE OF THE STUDENT PRODUCTION TEAM and ITS STELLAR TALENT!!!)Hmm...I must have left something out of this commentary.Oh well. "},{"Title":"Not Lovely, Not Amazing","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains spoiler The genre of chick flick has its most recent entry in Nicole Holofcener's Lovely and Amazing. Like many of its predecessors, this film succeeds in presenting a world where men are either marginalised or eliminated. Where it does not succeed is making us empathise with any of these women, or the total mess that they make of their lives. Although indeed originals, Holofcener's women seem derived from some mish-mash of Oprah, post-feminist angst and All My Children.This mess begins with the appearance of Jane Marks (Brenda Blethyn, here playing a well-fed Californian with her customary skill), a divorced mother of three very different daughters, preparing for Lipo. Two of the daughters are physical (if not mental) adults, Michelle (Catherine Keener) and Elizabeth (the fine Emily Mortimer). Bringing up the rear is Annie, Jane's newly adopted black daughter, whose biological mother is/was a crack addict, and who is eight years old. The liposuction proves complicated, and while Jane recuperates the drama centres on how the adult daughters fare without their mother, with the prosect of losing her, and with caring for their younger, troubled sister.Michelle is an artist who spends her time creating meaningless knick-knacks to fill LA's myriad gift shops. Several vendors wisely reject her (for example) hand-painted wallpaper, and she often storms out in foul-mouthed rages. Her increasingly alienated and ignored husband, Bill (Clark Gregg), who installs top-end personal sound systems, is furious at her refusal to contribute to their family income or get some grip on reality.They have a young daughter whose delivery, by a painful natural childbirth, has provided Michelle - the fallen Homecoming Queen, incidentally - with her principal topic of self-obsession. She eventually takes a job in a one hour photo shop, and screws that up by responding to the adolescent libido of her boss, gangly 17-year-old Jordan (Jake Gyllenhaal).  She is vulnerable enough to his flattery and angry enough at her husband and life to respond.Elizabeth Marks is an actress, or someone attempting to get cast. The film opens with a photo shoot, showing her in a louche dress exposing her nipples, revealing her insecurities in the opening lines. Later, rejected for lack of sex appeal for a part in a soap with the handsome, vain Kevin McCabe (Dermot Mulroney) Elizabeth allows him to seduce her. Afterward, in the films most interesting scene, she demands to pose nude so he can deliver a tooth to toe rap sheet on her physical imperfections.The scene is superbly played and almost painful to watch. Where he wants to praise her modest charms and looks, Elizabeth cajoles him to find greater and greater flaws. Drained, he responds that he too is unhappy with his body, his trainer has encouraged bulk instead of lean hard muscle. These two deserve each other! (I'll be interested to see what post-post feminist film critics make of this scene one generation from now.)As the film plods along, Michelle gets herself into an ugly mess with her boss, Elizabeth breaks with her steady boyfriend Paul, and Annie, clearly absorbing more and more of the Mark's neuroses, grows fatter and fatter. Sassy, smart and dry, Ms Goodwin's performance here is one of the few joys of the pic; one hopes we see more of this talented young actress.Nicole Holofcener has directed many episodes of the cannonical Sex and the City. This is a challenge to credulity, as nearly all of the energy, verve, wit, polish and insight signifying that show are absent here. The dialogue is indeed intelligent, and it is well-tuned to the banter of women's relationships, but more profound issues affecting women seem to be addressed in a half hour episode of SATC than in this ninety-minute chunk of cinema. Although at times smart, observant and candid, plot lines soon thin out, smaller characters are reduced to gross caricature, and the overall feel of the film seems, at times, downright amateurish.Lovely and Amazing is neither.  "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was neither lovely nor amazing... more like Boring & Mediocre. The characters are tired stereotypes. The movie doesn't explain enough about any characters' life for you to care, or even feel a passing interest. Surely you can find something better to do with the 80 minutes in which you would watch this movie. Clean the bathroom or something. That way you will feel at least a little gratification afterward.  "},{"Title":"This movie was Ugly and Hateful. . .I walked out of the theatre!!!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a visceral reaction after seeing this movie  I became ill; terribly nauseaus, for hours.  Admittedly, I did not see the entire movie; after about 45 minutes I walked out of the theatre.  I could not bear to watch any more of what I can only judge to be THE worst movie that I have ever had the displeasure of paying for and viewing!  Actually, I was ready to walk out on this movie sooner (about 20 minutes into it), but I thought. . .was hoping that it would go somewhere. . .anywhere!The movie was boring.  The two older daughters were extremely ugly human beings.  The dialogue was empty.  Brenda Blethyn's performance was the only good thing about the movie.  That woman could make anything look good, but alas, she was unable to do that for this picture, because its terribleness was just so much greater than her greatness.Lastly, not only was it a bad, terrible, awful, and boring flick, it was incredibly offensive--racist.  In all my encounters with black (American) children, I have never come across one who hated their blackness.  The child in this movie was written with such incredibly racial self-loathing, that I could not stand to sit through any more of it  I walked out. "},{"Title":"Amazing and Annoying","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Look into nearly any family, and you can find dysfunction. If I'm going to spend 90 minutes watching a movie about a neurotic, middle-class white mother, her two neurotic, middle-class daughters, and an adopted black girl with self-esteem issues and an eating disorder, I want there to be a story related to their dysfunction, not simply a slice of their exasperating lives. I want people to change, mature, transform. I want interesting things to happen to justify watching unaware, immature, self-absorbed, self-destructive behavior for an hour and a half. But that's all this film gives, unless you count the reminder that all men are unsupportive, insensitive, philandering pigs.Clearly, I'm not in the target demographic. "},{"Title":"A study of self-loathing does not make for a sympathetic movie","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had read two glowing reviews of this movie - but this is the sort of movie that requires you to be in sympathy with the characters. And it's a failure. I liked only one of the characters (the mother), simply pitied another (the eight year old girl), found one tiresome (the middle sister) and another (the eldest) hateful.One of the most striking things about this movie is how easily some without any struggle for life can find ways to make themselves miserable by cursing strangers, committing rape, behaving abominably toward their family, agonizing over a slight setback in a career -- or loathing their race or body.What a study of self-obsession this movie is - and it makes it impossible to care about these characters. When one character is arrested by the police, of course our feeling is relief, we feel throw the book at her - make her serve decades in prison and yet I'm not sure the director wanted the audience to experience such loathing of a character whose awful conduct we've been forced to watch for so long.There's absolutely no consideration of others shown by these characters - whether it is a woman fornicating with a stranger just after she has supposedly had a difficult break-up (so we assume that she is lying that she ever cared for the person - particularly since we aren't shown at all she cared - but why IS she lying?)-- or a wife raping a young boy --or another calling a complete stranger a pig.In fact, one of the striking things about these characters is how frequently these well-off people call strangers names - bitch and bastard and pig and repulsive.If one index of whether a character is likable is that they care for others, it is only the older woman (and to some extent the 8 year old) who appear to give any thought at all to making others happier. From the others, we see only lust and vanity and self-loathing, anger and ambition. I'd never want to run into any member of the younger generation of these characters. They're just loathsome. Yet if a viewer reacts this way to them, it feels that he or she won't like the movie.In fact, I find it a quite depressing thing that some reviewers do feel the characters represent them!It's also terribly tedious and slow.I had happily anticipated this - and hated it. "}{"Title":"Amazing and Lovely- The Plot Thickens ***","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brenda Blethyn does an American accent in this quirky film about a woman who has complications following cosmetic surgery. Blethyn plays a divorcée with two daughters in addition to an 8 year old black girl that she has adopted.While Blethyn worsens in the hospital, the story really takes off. Daughter Emily Mortimer is an unmarried aspiring actress who has been in a film in exactly 2 scenes. She loses a part after trying out for another role since the screen chemistry is not there between her and Dermot Mulroney. She later meets him after breaking up with her boyfriend 2 days earlier. Catherine Keener is the other daughter who really has problems. She is trying to sell items that she has made. She is married with a child and her husband is routinely cheating on her with her best friend. She gets a job at a photo store and is attracted to the 17 year old running the place. His mom eventually calls the police and she is arrested for statutory rape.Just in time that Blethyn begins to get better. The 8 year old precocious daughter is becoming too obnoxious to take.While the film is interesting, there are far too many problems presented here. We can't thank the screenwriters for this. "},{"Title":"a very unique, independent drama.","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film to be very just plain interesting.  The story mainly circles around this mother and her daughters, and the unique life they all have.  I'm not sure if this movie is considered indie, but in my opinion it is.. it reminds me of a classic Sundance film, or some kind of film fest thing, which it might have been.  I loved the acting and the overall story and plot.  I found this movie to be kind of controversial because of it's content, such as the 30 or 40 year old woman having an interest in the 17 year old, the lady standing naked and having the guy point out the weak areas of her body.  That was interesting content.  I definately recommend this film to anyone that wants to relax and watch a film where they can think, laugh, and think some more.  "},{"Title":"Nothing","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every artistic endeavor tries to say something, but I couldn't figureout what this movie was trying to say. If it can be termed a chickflick, then women's filmmaking is in deep trouble.  There's no realstory line, no development of characters and absolutely nodramatic tension. There's really nothing to this move. Nada. See itif you're curious.  But you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and One of a Kind","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very real. Nicole Holofcener did a bang-on job creating these head strong albeit troubled women. I lived in the neighborhood where they did alot of the filming and as a person who worked in trendy W3rd St. shops I recognized many of the characters. This is also the first film that I've ever seen depict the trials and triumphs of interracial adoption with honesty and a sense of humor.Brenda Blethyn is a brilliant and versatile actor (as she has shown in Pumpkin and Little Voice). Catherine Keener is also good in her role as a person who I didn't know whether to love or hate. And as an actor, I totally understood the dilema that befell Emily Mortimer's character.The child actor Raven Goodwin is very talented(are child actors getting better or is it that Ms. Holofcener is just very in tone with what chidren think or both). Aunjanue Ellis is one of the most underrated African-American females on the screen today (she needs to have bigger parts to show off what she can do). I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Fresh, fun, and female.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lovely & Amazing is a slice-of-life dialogue-intensive comedy/drama-lite examination of a mother and her two adult daughters stumbling through life one day at a time.  Holofcener paints an insightful portrait of the three women with delicate brushstrokes, sufficiently colorful to be interesting and sufficiently real to engender empathy, as the they face their daily vicissitudes with a the usual mix of insecurity, courage, self-doubt, and certainty.  A critically lauded, delightful, easy to watch, and entertaining little chick flick for today's woman. (B+) "},{"Title":"Sometimes a Movie can just be Really Good","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look, this movie was really enjoyable.  It was like watching through the window of someone's house, which I like to do.  If you don't like doing that and you need formulaic movies as prescribed by Syd Fields, then this isn't gonna be your cup of tea.  But, honestly, so it's no f-ing masterpiece, that doesn't mean it's a piece of crap.  It was GOOD.  And these days, that should be reward enough.  You can't drink $500 bordeaux every day, but that doesn't mean that a really good $20 bottle of wine is a horror.  Just enjoy. "},{"Title":"Lovely and Amazing","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am disappointed at the tone of so many of the comments I read--are people just trying to be nasty or cool or what?I thought this was a sweet and poignant movie. Emily Mortimer was charming as can be, Raven Goodwin was a marvel--possessed of the wisdom of Methuselah though too young to articulate it--and Holofcener's direction was gentle, intelligent, lilting and magical. The chemistry between the three sisters was palpable when it came together--their eddies of lonely confusion prevented their tender understanding of each other and themselves until very late in the film. The final scene of Annie and the pillows--truly lovely. The fact that the daughters and the mother do not actually reunite at the end (textually they do but they in fact do not in the script) is a quite thoughtful touch. Thanks for the opportunity to throw in my 2 cents. "},{"Title":"A Really Great Movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lovely and Amazing was suprisingly a great film. I went to see it for Jake Gyllenhaal , who played the guy that Catherine Keener was having the affair with. I love Jake , he's awesome. But I found something OTHER than just him , I found a truly real , fantastic , touching story of a family that just can't get it together. But by the end they realize that there no good apart from eachother. Catherine Keener , Brenda Blethyn , Emily Mortimer , & Jake Gyllenhaal all give wonderful preformances. The screenplay is awesome. The filming of the movie was cool. And the big screen debut of Raven Goodwin (Annie) was outstanding. She's only 9 years old and she's an incredible actress. Expect to see alot of her in Hollywood. So PLEASE go see this movie. Because it really does live up to it's name....Lovely and Amazing "},{"Title":"A good film.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I initially hesitated to see this film, fearing it would be just another chick flick, a la Divine Secrets Of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood (I'm male).  Not so.I really enjoyed this movie.  I liked its intelligence, the realism of the relationships between the characters, and its true-to-life dialogue.  The director coaxed very understated performances from all the actors, giving the film the feel of a humorous episode of Law And Order.Go out and see this movie if you have not yet done so.  "},{"Title":"A must see film as an alternative to big blockbusters of the summer.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie truly entertains, but unlike most other summer fare, you're also not embarrassed to have paid $10 to see it.  I saw Lovely and Amazing this weekend and fell in love with it.  It's a relationship based, slice of life film about a family of women trying to get along with each other and themselves as they fight their insecurities.  While it might sound like a familiar story line, it's fresher and smarter than anything I've seen in ages.  Lovely and Amazing feels like the female contemporary response to Woody Allen's vision of the world and his sense of humor (though that's not a strict parallel).  It's a great little story, but made even better with the fun and quirky characters that are so well drawn by their actors.  I'm a huge fan of Catherine Keener already and she was so fun to watch in this film. Emily Mortimer was a welcomed new actress to me and Brenda Blythn was amazing as always.  The little girl who plays Annie, is just awesome.  Jake Gyllenhaal was cute and endearing which really made his relationship with Keener work and Dermot Mulroney was very believable as the superficial star. Definitely see this movie. While not something I'd suggest for a teenage boy slumber party, I think every other group of persons will relate to it in someway and laugh at themselves as well as the movie because of it. "}{"Title":"More California Malaise","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yet another domestic melodrama about the not-so-young and clueless in Southern California. Its difficult to tell in most of these whether the target is vapid, superficial lives (see SAFE, also with James LaGro) or whether the creator is deluded enough to think he/she has found something profound (See MAGNOLIA). Exposing the banal narcissism in LA life can make good drama or comedy. Suggesting there's something more at work, however, makes the film's creator guilty of the same pretensions afflicting the characters.Holofcener and her LAA are firmly in the deluded category. Jane, Elizabeth and Michelle garner no sympathy and seem unable to grasp the simplest of life's truths. With time and money on their hands, they appear incapable of thinking about anyone except themselves. Holofcener has created a mom and her daughters whose sole motivation is to make them and their efforts arousing and desirable to others. Indeed, the supporting cast are mere props to measure Jane, Elizabeth and Michelle's success or failure.This film won tons of critical acclaim. I found it offensive. As you may have guessed, I hated MAGNOLIA where, like LAA, everyday human fragility, shortcomings, regrets, etc., come packaged as profound concepts insightfully perceived by wise, virtuous Southern Californians.As wealthy, beautiful and dazzling as their lives may appear, someone needs to tell them to get a life.PS/The acting in LAA is top notch and wasted. "},{"Title":"Another delightful people movie...one of my favorites!","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I see reviews calling films like these boring or who cares? I just want to tell them to quit watching these quiet, meditative people-focused films and just go line up for FAST AND FURIOUS already!LOVELY AND AMAZING is one of my favorite little indie films, starring Emily Mortimer (one of my favorites since she gave that courageous and intense performance in YOUNG ADAM), Catherine Keener and Brenda Blethyn, about a dysfunctional family. Like many of my favorite people films, this one doesn't have a concrete plot, which some people absolutely demand anymore, or a nice, neat little ending tied in ribbons. It simply lets you follow the characters around and get a look at their screwed-up lives.Mortimer plays a young actress who frets over her bodily imperfections and is beginning to lose hope that she'll ever get that big part that will break her out in Hollywood. Keener plays the older married sister, whose marriage is crappy to say the least, and who somehow has never grown up enough to go out and land a steady job. Blethyn plays their mother, whose husband has long since left the family, and whose slight belly bulge has her going for liposuction. There is an adopted daughter too, a young girl who tries to hide her own identity crisis and insecurities behind an outspoken and iron-willed personality. A very interesting assortment of characters. The actress ends up being dumped by her steady boyfriend and she ends up in a semi-relationship with a popular actor she auditioned with once. The married sister and her husband fight constantly, about everything, and she ends up in a fling with a teenaged boy who is also her new boss at the job she dragged herself out to get. Mother ends up with a post-operative infection and has to stay in the hospital longer than planned, and the younger adopted sister acts out, plays manipulative games for attention, and continues to wish she was white. The cast includes Clark Gregg, James LeGros, Jake Gyllenhaal, and Dermot Mulroney as the men in these womens' lives.The way I've described this film, it doesn't even sound interesting! It sounds like a movie that goes nowhere. But the thing is, I like movies like this. It's like meeting new neighbors and spending a few hours or days with them and learning that their lives are no better than yours. I'm not going to even recommend it to anyone. It will either work for you or it won't. If this is not your kind of film, go watch what you do like. I don't even know if I know WHY I like these films. I just do. If you are like me and enjoyed films like IN MEMORY OF MY FATHER or GARDEN STATE, you will most likely enjoy LOVELY AND AMAZING. "},{"Title":"good but....","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent movie all around, good acting, good direction. But what a depressing film. One has to experience some sort of satisfaction from viewing a film in order to consider it a 'good' film. While it is excellent in many ways, one is left with quite an unhappy experience.  "},{"Title":"Charming and Bewildering","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The little girl, Annie, had played a very good part in this movie. She was a scene stealer every time she appeared. Her comments and reactions were adorable. She was Lovely and Amazing.A realistic tale that makes you appreciate the little struggles in life. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't need to `go any place' It's simply a slice of life film involving 3 sisters and their mother. All of them with faults and problems and all of them with endearing qualities and strengths. You know, human beings. This movie simply takes an honest look at them and if any thing, appreciates them as examples of the human condition. The film is like what the character Kevin says after he at first reluctantly but then very honestly and evenly evaluates  Elizabeth's naked body and is not recriminated for it `That was kind of refreshing.'    "},{"Title":"Can't speak highly enough....","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Catherine Keener? She's so friggin good, I can't stand it. I loved this movie. It does something that was hard for me to put my finger on, but I think I've got it now--It shows that we can't always hope for a lot in the world, in terms of validation or support, but we always have our humor. That seems really slight, but it means a lot. These people were really not happy in most moments, but they could manage to still be clever or witty. Sometimes, if you can't laugh at life, you'd never stop crying. Emily Mortimer was great- the scene everyone talked about is as good as they said.And Catherine Keener. She's such an original. I almost hate, her she's so perfect. "},{"Title":"an honest movie about passive-aggressive behavior","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like some other viewers, I was disappointed that some key plot elements were left unresolved at the end of an otherwise well-made movie. But I still had a sense of the film being essentially whole. It's not just about self-absorption or about body image problems. Probably the most important thematic thread is that the main characters relate to other people only in a passive-aggressive mode, and must learn the importance of more direct and less manipulative ways of interacting, whether by assertion or by acceptance of others' frankness. Each of the three sisters learns in one way or another, to one degree or another, that it's possible and productive to do so. It doesn't make for a big feel-good finale, but it provides a sense that happiness may be possible for these characters who at the beginning are incapable of straightforward conversation. That's the importance of the much-discussed and much-derided scene in which the young actress demands a frank appraisal of her nude body--her reaction shows us the beginning of an effort to achieve honesty.The movie's dialog at first seems rather strained, and off, but that's because it's different from standard-model Hollywood dialog. It's dialog in which the style is true to its content--no zingers and clever phrasing, just the kind of talk that passes between people who are trying to avoid responsibility for their own feelings. I thought it was rigorously true and authentically brilliant rather than artificially polished. All the actors made it seem thoroughly real. It's worth watching over and over because it tells us an important truth about our culture. "},{"Title":"Parts","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" TeeVee does this to us all, and I am saddened by it. Drama has a simple legacy Tragedy where the mechanics of the story are in the world of the story, and Comedy where the mechanics are in the world of the audience. One is used to transport, the other to entertainingly affirm. Shakespeare's last work (with Fletcher) was likely the first attempt to merge these at the root in the first so-called tragicomedy.When done well, this has little to do with humor and everything to do with diverting attention from the profound in order to allow it inveigle itself further into our minds. TeeVee demands that we pretend to be profound while refining and polishing the form, but in a way that leaves the core vacant. Sweetened meat without the meat.So we have a continuous parade of projects that devise ever new lightnesses,unchallenging wise humor over human pathos. The most striking in recent memory was 'Secretary.' In this case, we have a great example absolute competence, thorough coordination of all concerned, including attuned, skilled actors -- even a notable score. And empty -- no whole, just parts.In fact, the story -- such as it is -- recognizes this fact. The family is portrayed not as a family, but as parts. One part in particular (the black girl) is incongruously placed. One sister makes models of a functional item (a chair) with incongruous parts. She later moves into being a cog producing casual images.The mother is unhappy about her parts, and this seems to be the rubberband engine of the project.In the one scene that surely will remain in my memory, the surprising Emily Mortimer asks to have her parts evaluated. The wonderful self-reference is that she is an actress playing an actress judged by an actor playing an actor. It was a deft, breathtaking moment.My heart breaks when I see such finely orchestrated talent used to such effect for such trivial ends. Give me Hal Hartley, or even one of Tilda Swinton's excesses. We need nourishment.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"The digital camerawoman's script","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One objection to digital video is that it's ugly. Another is that it requires the use of digital video cameras - which are small, light, and easy to use. Good news if you want to shoot a film, bad news if you want to watch one. Just as word processing encourages people who can write well to write less well and people who cannot write well to write at all, digital cameras encourage films like this one.Place a digital video camera in someone's hand and he or she will forget all about framing, allow us see things properly, weighing the relative merits of close-ups and long shots, the difference between zooming and dollying, and so forth; instead, he or she will just point at the actors and follow them around.The camerawork and even the frame-by-frame ugliness aren't so bad in Lovely and Amazing as they are in other would-be films, but this is compensated for by the script anticipating a camera that unthinkingly and uninformatively follows the actors around, Nicole Holofcener unthinkingly and uninformatively follows the characters around. Whatever they happen to be doing or saying at the moment is not just good enough to show us, but serves as the basis for the plot ... lots and lots of tedious, everything-that-could-possibly-happen-is-relevant-to-it plot.I don't know. It's not really a bad movie in the standard sense. I think I even sort of liked most of it. The dialogue is good. The material is not worthless. I don't think Holofcener's characters are INHERENTLY annoying, or that their neurotic navel-gazing is trying to watch in itself. One gets the impression that a good film about these very people at this very time was in fact made - by someone else - while Holofcener simply followed everyone around. "},{"Title":"Worst Film I've Seen in Many Years!","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is simply the worst film I've seen in more years than I can remember. The plot is incoherent and the characters are lost in scenes with no sense of direction; as if the film was made up from scene-to-scene. There is no sense of story structure. The characters, even though related, are not connected to each other emotionally so there is no connection to the audience. They shout, argue and even beg BUT don't connect! They just speak over-written dialog. Especially insulting is the scene where the male lover gives advice to the young girl after sex regarding her body. This was just an excuse to show full-frontal nudity; pointless and stupid. An insult to women!!!!! I felt no interest in the characters at all even the mother who was ill in the hospital.Here is my biggest complaint, the cast is filled with excellent actresses capable of better work, and more importantly, better selection of material.This is how terrible films get made when excellent actors lower their standards and make horrible choices. In this case, I suspect it was due to this being a woman's film. It's not fit for women, men or pets.There isn't anything new or different that is said in this film. A huge waste of time and especially talent. This makes any episode of Sex and the City look like Shakespeare. "}{"Title":"Get A Life","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've noticed something a trend perhaps in Indie Cinema, it's all about the Upper Middle Class. Are the writers, directors, of these pictures of this group? After all, even an Indie production costs millions to produce. Your average middle classer has a hard time comprehending his rent, forget getting a picture funded.In Lovely and Amazing, the women seemed to live in a plush world of decorator pillows and jeans. Big houses or snazzy apartments are the norm, trendy villages to shop too. Emily the actress, she's not waiting on tables while she's in between lovers or parts. Nor is her older sister, ex-prom queen, Catherine in the work world post-college and kids. Her hubby has his semi-glamorous office world and mistress, and plenty of time away from the family. Little black orphan child has issues in this white comfy world, too much food perhaps? The cars are smooth and leathery without pretension, the clubbing's and veranda angst is so Bloomingdale.In the end we suggest all these ladies get a life. "},{"Title":"Decent Acting POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not my kind of movie the story about 2 sisters one of whom is very hard to get along with the other who is trying to become an actress it reminds me of a Lifetime drama however Catherine Keener is pretty good same goes for the rest of the cast but I did not care so much for this movie overall but if you want a decent drama with good acting then I can reccomend it 6\10 RATED R FOR SEXUAL CONTENT AND PROFANITY "},{"Title":"Suburban drama at its best - spoilers","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Suburbia can be a jungle-especially when you're a woman struggling with image.`Lovely and Amazing' frankly and honestly follows the lives of three sisters with their mother. It's a superbly directed film with realistic characters and humorous situations sure to entertain, if not teach.If image isn't everything, then Jane Marks (Brenda Blethyn) has it all wrong. She feels the claws of age grab hold of her and she decides to put a little distance from them with a trip to the plastic surgeon. At the same time, her daughter Michelle (Catherine Keener) struggles with an unhappy marriage and zero career. Her other daughter, actress Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer), can't seem to manage to find a decent role, no thanks to her sickeningly superficial manager. Jane's youngest daughter Annie-a ripe candidate for Jenny Craig at the mere age of 8-deals with being the adopted black girl in a family of whites.Alas, as Jane's trip under the knife goes awry landing her in a coma, her bad luck rubs off on her daughters. Michelle takes a lowbrow job in a one-hour photo shop when her art doesn't sell and Elizabeth is rejected for a part after a steamy audition with the soap-opera swooner Kevin-who she later ends up sleeping with. Michelle's gig at the shop lands her in trouble when she gets involved with her 17-year-old boss Jordan (Jake Gyllenhaal). Through the experience with Jane, the two eldest try to look after Annie, but her angst manages to grow as fast as her waistline. Finally, she runs away but gets no further than the neighborhood McDonald's.This story can relate to anyone who's dealt with self-image. Each of the characters battle demons be it lacking sex from a husband, desiring to stand naked for a bodily critique or loving your plastic surgeon. However, some questions remain. What becomes of Michelle's illicit relationship? Will she stay married? Will they all go back to life as usual, or have they been changed by this experience? Subtle holes in the plot abound, but detract little from the film.Acting, as you would expect, would have to be a knockout. And it is. Michelle's character strikes as most distasteful for her sour attitude and salty tongue. Elizabeth's part is equally as engaging; she's loveable but shy and self-conscious. However, many extras conjure up the west-coast stereotype for superficiality. Elizabeth's manager is equally as stomach turning in her purposefully chic forgetfulness.Nicole Holofcener does double duty as both writer and director. She effectively recruits personal experience, as her 12-year-old brother was a black adoptee. At any rate, her direction brings the storyline and characters to life in a way that most women, and even some men, will undoubtedly relate to. Her story and direction conjure up remembrances from the suburban post-noire `American Beauty' in its attack on ostentation, albeit not nearly as dramatic.It's unclear whether `Lovely and Amazing' attempts to amplify any message. If it did, it would subtly drive it home with realistic characters and minimal amounts of self-righteousness.  "},{"Title":"I can appreciate a chick flick; however, I cannot for this film.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a 38-year old man, I usually enjoy seeing chick flicks.  Unfortunately, I could not relate to this mother-daughters relationship.  Honestly, I only saw this film because of Jake Gyllenhaal and Dermot MulroneyTo producers, writers and director of this film, good luck on your next artistic endeavor. "},{"Title":"Lives up to half of its name.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning lots of spoilers here. Originally, I picked up the film in hopes of momentarily curbing my craving for a Jake Gyllenhaal film, but it did far more than the mentioned.   Lovely and Amazing documents a few days in the life of a mother and her three daughters.  The mother, Jane (Brenda Blethyn), is in the midst of a mid-life crisis and decides to  service herself through a liposuction treatment.  As she is going through with the procedure, she asks her daughter Michelle (Catherine Keener) to take care of her younger, adopted sister Annie (Raven Goodwin).  Michelle is a house-wife/artist who becomes so enthralled in her work of home-made miniature chairs that she asks ridiculous prices for them before storming out of stores at their disapproval.Meanwhile, the third sister, Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer), is rescuing homeless dogs in between visits to her agent.  Having just completed her roll in a Hollywood film, Elizabeth does her best to stay a humanitarian en route to what she wants to be success.  Eventually, all four women's problems are projected in full effect.  Jane's plastic surgery goes wrong and she has to stay in the hospital extra days on her own dollar.  Between painful sleep-induced states, she lusts over her doctor until cursing when she discovers he is wed.   Annie has trouble coming to grips with being the younger, adopted, black sister, feeling rather distant from her siblings.  She ends up faking several drowning incidents in swimming class, lying in order to get her frizzy hair straightened, and scares off her swimming teacher/Big Sister from the Big Brother/Sister Program.  Michelle ends up frustrated by her husband, and does as he says.  After several failed art sale attempts of homemade wallpaper, she is taken in at a one-hour photo shop, where Jordan (Gyllenhaal) takes her in, eyeing down the older woman.  Eventually, Elizabeth flunks an audition for not being sexy enough, but then goes on to sleep with the co-star whose movie she was cast away from.  She takes both of her sisters to her movie premiere, and leaves early with Annie, both leaving Michelle at the after-party alone, and later on getting attacked by a dog she tries to rescue.  Michelle has a brief fling with 17-year-old Jordan, but it ends fast when his mother calls the police, arresting Michelle for statutory rape.  On her way home from prison, she stops at a McDonald's to find Annie over-indulging in fast food treats after straying from Elizabeth's care.The end of the film wraps up quite nicely, as Elizabeth recovers healthily, and minus ten pounds of fat.  The three daughters go together to pick their mother up, and the credits roll to a close. Lovely and Amazing turned out not to be a Jake Gyllenhaal-ogle fest, but a great chance to see some new faces and view a plotline worth thinking about.  The struggle of four female characters was easily defined, with each being so diverse but not too eerie to be tangled in one another.  The film was moderately easy to follow, but not so much that I felt bored.  A lot of creative force was used, and this film truly shone.  It really was a beautiful and Lovely piece to watch, but the Amazing may be going a tad far.  It's not too often, however, that you get a chance to view a man picking apart his lover's body as she stands modeling it at her own discretion. "},{"Title":"It was both.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  And I haven't enjoyed a little girl's performance so much since seeing Jodhi May in A World Apart.  AT LAST a new gem that doesn't rub right off as a product of the Hollywood Machine.If you haven't seen Walking and Talking rent it today.  And then rent this gem of a film that is truly befitting of its title.  "},{"Title":"Lovely but not Amazing","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Lovely & Amazing' was a bit lovely, but was not quite that amazing as some critics have praised it to be. This ultimate `chic flick' is about a neurotic sister who is unhappy in her insipid marriage so she has an affair with a teenager; another neurotic sister who is unhappy about her looks & acting career so she bears herself to the men she sleeps with and ask them what is iniquitous about her vanity; a black adopted child sister who is unhappy about her color so she decides to turn her curly follicles into a straight du. Let's not forget the mother who passed on these genital & psychological chemical imbalances who herself is unhappy about her weight so she goes for the `lippo' treatment. Catherine Keener was once again amazing as the `cradle rocker' sister, Emily Mortimer was a bit lovely as the vanity neurotic, and Brenda Blethyn did not `suc' as the liposuction mother. However, what was not quite so lovely & amazing of `Lovely & Amazing' was the neurosis overload the film transpired which made a Woody Allen film look like a melodrama. I still do think it is lovely enough for one to view `Lovely & Amazing'. *** Average  "},{"Title":"Not lovely and certainly not amazing","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After about twenty minutes of viewing, my wife suggested we leave.  I said, let's wait, I think that they are just setting up the stage, it will get better probably.We waited and waited and waited.  Then after what seemed an eternity, and to our relief, the credits started mercifully rolling.  One consolation it is a relatively short film; we had wasted less than two hours.How a film like this can be well rated by reviewers is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Loony and Annoying","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was the only man at my viewing of this film. Yes, it is really a chick flick. This is actually summarized by the character, Paul, played by James LeGros, who breaks up with one of the female characters and tells her that she needs a girlfriend, not a boyfriend. And these women do need a female audience, I'm afraid. I have to admit the performances were interesting, with the exception of the child acting, which was really overdone. There was no plot. No transformation. Just the endless muddling of borderline personalities. Loony and annoying. Oh, yes, the film also does its best to remind us once again that all men are pigs. If you're female, you'll just love it. If you're a marginalized male, like me, you'll probably understand it, but you may also realize that some women actually do like men.   "},{"Title":"Emily Mortimer excellent","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. It's character driven, but the characters don't seem like feminist  archetypes for academic droning. They also don't feel souped-up for entertainment purposes.  The characters'  struggles did not fit any standard-issue plot rhythms. It takes good acting to make something like this work. Fortunately, the movie has great acting.  You expect Catherine Keener & Blethyn to be good, but it was Emily Mortimer who really impressed me. The scene where she asks a boyfriend to evaluate her body was very effective. Mortimer conveyed her character's insecurity & humanity so well. The viewer can't help but feel vulnerable right along with her.  "}{"Title":"Lovely and Delightful!","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lovely and Amazing is lovely and delightful. While not amazing, the characters are 100% believable, with completely natural funny and poignant dialog about women's and girls' insecurities and neuroses, particularly about their abilities, their bodies and their male/female and mother/daughter relationships. I've been a fan of writer/director Nicole Holofcener and Catherine Keener since their first collaboration, Walking and Talking, which was charming about the dating game. The siblings (Emily Mortimer and young Raven Goodwin as a literal little sister) and mother Brenda Blythen all flounder around like a real family, with no powerful epiphanies to really rescue them; at least they have each other to sympathize.Mortimer's painfully self-conscious actress gets to satirize media's obsessions with sexiness that is pointed to as a prime suspect in driving women crazy.The guys are good-naturedly typical types, from wide-eyed Jake Gyllenhaal, to impatient boyfriend James Le Gros and self-centered Dermot Mulroney; only the husband is a bland cypher of a stereotype. Women might drag men to see this to say See, this is what I mean. Maybe they'll even get it. (originally written 8/11/2002) "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is good,not great,not fantastic just good. It's quite pointless but the the fact that there is humorous bits and good acting makes up for that. The films about 3 sisters and there Mother and about there life.There all different and all have there own problems. The main sister Michelle played by Catherine Keener is trying to sell her art, but has no luck and takes a job in a photography, where she ends up having a fling with her young boss, Jorden played by Jake Gyllenhaal. The other sister Elizabeth, played by Emily Mortimer is making it into the movie business, already appearing in a film,but has her confidence set back when she doesn't feel as if she's sexy. The youngest sister Annie(Raven Goodwin)was adopted and is dark skinned, so she finds it hard sometimes being bought up in a family with a different race. The mother Jane(Brenda Blethyn)is quite lonely despite having 3 daughters and tries to flirt with her doctor while having surgery that has some bad Side effects. To be honest I only saw this film because of Jake Gyllenhaal and I wasn't disappointed, he wasn't in it for long though,which I wasn't to pleased about, but when he was he looked very good looking and acted really well, along with all the other actors and I think thats what also saves the film. I thought at the end it left too many Untied knots and there were a few things that I didn't really like about it, but aside from that it was an OK film, but like I said before a bit unnecessary, but I quite enjoyed it and if your a fan of any of the actors in this, then I would recommend this chick flick! "},{"Title":"The title says it all.","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  LOVELY & AMAZING is director/writer Nicole Holefcener's brilliant follow-up to WALKING & TALKING.This film is a beautiful, touching, and realistic portrayal of three young women who are in desperate need to find something good about their lives. These characters are detailed and flawed (just like the rest of us).This cast is exceptional! Catherine Keener, Emily Mortimer, Brenda Blethyn, Jake Gyllenhaal, Dermot Mulroney, and young Raven Goodwin give terrific performances.This is, undoubtedly, one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"Junk food or just junk","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read the pretentious mumblings of the director for this work of total junk. She's a feminist, she thinks that worrying about her fat ass is not superficial... and if you think THAT is bad - go and see her film. It is an insult to women, an insult to feminists - and an insult to the intelligence of its supposed audience. There is not one single redeeming feature about this film; badly acted, badly written, badly filmed. Completely unbelievable. And not one shred of charm. The director has a Black brother so she thinks she can write a film with a Black adopted kid in it and make it interesting. She can't. In fact, the only thing I noticed about the Black kid is that she was a total brat and that no-one - I mean NO-ONE - tries to teach her either manners or responsibility for any of her actions. She gets away with everything she does and gets hugged for being bad. Yeah, right! Just what we need. another Black kid with attitude... (don't blame me for that last crass comment - it's the director who wrote the kid the way she is and also wrote the women who supposedly take care of her by NOT teaching her anything worthwhile. (By the way, the Black kid is about the best thing in the film - she's the only one who I actually believed. All the other actors are sleepwalking through their roles. But I don't blame them. There isn't a single person in this film that I would want to know - they are all completely self-involved and tiresome.) Which is the real problem here. You don't care about anyone. One of the sisters tries to make art - little cutesy miniature chairs and wallpaper. They are not particularly good, and no-one wants to buy them; she in fact has no real talent at all. This sister is obviously an allusion to the director - and the film shouldn't have been able to be sold any more than the chairs were. This is truly one of the worst films I have ever seen. God knows how she ever managed to get it made. She must have friends in very high places - who also don't dare tell her the truth about herself... and even more extraordinary is the number of people on this site that actually seem to have found something positive to say about it. Well, hell, America voted twice for George Bush, too. This film is even a greater flop than he is. Avoid it like the plague. "}]