[{"Title":"Not as Dumb as it Looks","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"102 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I rented it, I was expecting to be disappointed. What a shock! An awesome film with a delightfully goofy plot. I did not find it offensive in any reagrd. In fact, I disagree with those who have called the film stupid or dumb or void of any real social commentary. In a nutshell, Almost everyone Jimmy encounters on his adventure is trapped in their own self imposed bubble. Truth is, we all find ways to insulate ourselves from the world, and impose Bubbles to convince ourselves of non-existent limitations that prevent us from being and doing what we want. The film's irony and beauty lies in the fact that while Jimmy's bubble is the most obvious, he is the free-est character in the film. He refuses to accept the limitations of his bubble, and will follow his heart no matter what the cost. How many of us can look in the mirror and say the same about ourselves? Well worth the cost of rental. One of the least recognized film jewels of the century so far. "},{"Title":"Roller-coaster freakshow of John Waters-ish fun","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's obvious reading the comments here that the people who got this film completely got it and those who didn't did not understand it at all.  I griped about how dumb this looked when it was released (the ad campaign was a joke) and never had any intention of seeing it.  But Gylenhaal bowled me over in `The Good Girl,' so I decided I had to see his other films.The film's certainly not for all tastes, but will appeal to people who've liked John Waters' films from the past decade.  Yes, it's politically incorrect.  But that's a big part of the fun!  Most of the jokes are delivered with a dry sense of irony (case in point, the guy in the ticket booth).  The entire cast gives hilarious performances from Swoosie Kurtz in an outrageous psycho-mother performance to `Working's Arden Myrin as head-Lorraine, the psycho cult-follower.  A big part of the fun is that all of the characters ARE psycho and off-kilter.  Much like the TV-series `The Oblongs,' the psychos in this film aren't scarred by their shortcomings, they revel in them...  Which is why it isn't offensive unless you're politically correct and easily offended.It feels like this movie should have been made 20 years ago.  It has a real '80s feel to it, and the multiple `Land of the Lost' references (the spoof scene is hysterical) feel about 15 years out of place.  There's no gross-out sexual humor, which is both refreshing and unusual in this post-`There's Something About Mary' age of films.  It just has a twisted-wholesome 80s sense about it.My one and only complaint is the running time.  At 83 mins, it left me wanting more.  Many of the scenes seem choppy, as if big parts of the scenes are missing (Bubble Boy's confrontation with Dr. Phreak for one).  The entire opening sequence seems as if it should have gone on longer, and instead they compensated with voice-overs and musical overdubs to push it forward faster.  It wouldn't bother me if there were a `deleted scenes' section on the DVD, but like most of Touchstone's DVD releases, there's little for extras.All in all, a great little underrated film!  "},{"Title":"Perfect Modern Day Farce","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, I admit it. I was a child of the 80's. I distinctly remember sitting in elementary school and reading about the boy who lived in a bubble in my Weekly Reader. Naturally, when I saw the trailer for this movie, I asked myself, Hey, whatever happened to that boy that lived in a bubble? I knew I had to watch this to satisfy my curiosity. You've got the perfect character...an odd teenage boy that lives in a bubble. Write up an adventurous plot and throw in a cameo by Fabio and some M. C. Hammer on the soundtrack, and you've got yourself a movie that no Gen-X'er can resist.I was fully expecting this film to be along the lines of Wayne's World or A Night at the Roxbury. The characters are hilarious and exaggerated, but the non-existent plot drags on like a 10 minute skit that has gone 80 minutes too long. To my surprise, Bubble Boy has a fast-moving plot. OK, it is somewhat of an overused plot Boy falls in love with girl; Girl gets engaged to someone else; Boy interrupts the wedding to get the girl back. You've watched enough movies like this to know how it is going to end, but, as always, it's the journey that Bubble Boy takes to get there that makes this movie interesting and redeeming. Just when you think Jimmy is finally on his way to Niagara Falls, and the movie is going to start dragging, BAM! The ice cream truck hits a cow! After mud wrestling two women while Japanese male spectators cheer him on, Jimmy is back on his way. Just when you think it can't get any more crazy, it does. That bubble plastic must be some tough stuff.There is an important lesson can be learned from this movie. It is best expressed by Jimmy's dad who is really the only normal character, and only speaks once in the entire movie. He asks, What if Neil Armstrong flew to the moon, but never set foot on it? This movie is about taking chances...breaking out of our so-called bubbles, and experiencing life...not just sitting around watching it pass us by.The dialogue and the jokes can be lame sometimes, but the humor really comes from the absurdity of the characters and the improbable situations the main character runs into. I have to give the writers an A+ for imagination. The movie is sanitized for younger viewers, but gives a wink and a nod to more mature viewers. This is a perfect modern day farce if you are looking for a light and uplifting comedy at the rental store.FYI, in case you wondered, the original bubble boy, David, died at the age of 13 back in 1984 after an unsuccessful bone marrow transplant. Today, infants born without immunity to disease undergo the transplant procedure at a young age, so they don't have to live the rest of their lives in a bubble. "},{"Title":"What A Bloody GREAT Movie","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I caught this movie by mistake after it was broadcast on BBC1 at midnight last night, I just had to go straight out and get the DVD. It only had a one star rating in my television magazine which I think is terrible. It was a highly entertaining film which myself at 26, my 24 year old girlfriend, my 53 year old mother and even my very young daughter highly enjoyed - A really entertaining, pleasant family movie and obviously VERY under-rated in the UK. It was just one laugh after another, a really uplifting, funny story with a not-too over the top ending (although it was a little predictable). I would, however, like to send my respect to the family & friends of Matthew McGrory, as he always played great characters in all of his movies - I was very shocked and upset to hear that he passed away earlier this year, he will be immortalised by all of the great roles that he entertained the world with. "},{"Title":"Woulda, Coulda, Shoulda been a hit.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've just discovered BUBBLE BOY and didn't realize what I'd been missing all these years. One of the few real laugh out loud films. It started off amusingly, then about a quarter of an hour into the film I was creased up on the floor, and stayed that way till the credits rolled. And as for all the critics who apparently complained about the film being cruel and tasteless - don't they understand the concept of humour. Comedy has always been about laughing at other peoples misfortune - whether it's Oliver Hardy accidentally hitting Stan Laurel around the head with a plank of wood, or Frasier Crane trying to hook up with the beautiful woman down the hall and striking out yet again - that's just how it works. However, anyone who has actually watched the film would surely also see that besides being riotously funny, it has a great message. The eponymous character is adventurous and heroic, and Jake Gyllenhaal plays the wide-eyed innocence and enthusiasm with such passion that you can't help but admire both the actor and the character as he makes his journey through life. The underlying message of the film is to not give up on your dreams. To live life to the full. It's about facing the world, and overcoming the obstacles to achieve true happiness. The fact that it has you crying with laughter whilst communicating that message is a bonus. It's now in my top ten of comedy and feel-good movies and I'd recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"I wish my mom was like bubble boy's...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  well, NOT really.  The mom is what made this movie very funny.  Her character was great, especially with all the not so nice things she did and said, but then in the next sentence she would praise Jesus.  I also got a kick out of all the weird characters bubble boy meets on his trip to Niagra Falls.This movie was so much better than a lot of other comedies.  I guess all the controversy over the fact this movie makes fun of people who really live in bubbles is what killed it at the theater.  If I'd known this was actually worth watching, I would have seen it a lot sooner.FINAL VERDICT  Remember this is a comedy. Don't take it so seriously.  This movie is silly; it is not trying to be offensive.  Just take it for what it is worth and you will laugh and have a good time.  This is definitely worth the 90 minutes it takes to watch it. "},{"Title":"Fun Pee Wee like movie","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you liked PEE WEE HERMAN'S BIG ADVENTURE, you'll like BUBBLE BOY. Some rude humor but overall a sweet film that was wrongfully maligned by the protests from parents with kids in actual bubbles. The movie wasn't about that - the bubble was obviously a symbol for overprotection. Jake Gyllenhaal is very funny as the wide-eyed innocent. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE HAD ME ROLLIN!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some say this movie was offensive, but if so, it was offensive to at least a dozen different demographics equally. This movie owes it to Jake Gyllenhaal. He was hilarious!!! I mean I can't believe he was able to suspend the energy level from the very beginning. You also have to give it up to Swoosie Kurtz. She played her character so well and not to take anything away from her, just looking at her face cracks me up. The funniest moment was when the Indian ice cream truck driver was shooing the big rig to get out of the way!!!HAHAHAHAHA....just thinking about it. "},{"Title":"light hearted and funny","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When watching movies late at night this one is a funny one to check out. It adds amusing scenes with naive love. Jimmy is a boy stuck in a bubble since childbirth and becomes friends with the girl next door. His mother who is over bearing calls the girl dirty names but allows their relationship because of his bubble. When the girl leaves the town to get married to the wrong guy Jimmy must find a way to get to Niagra Falls to stop the marriage.This movie is a series of incidents in which Jimmy happens to bump into the right person at the right time to get to the next stage in his journey. With the culmination of all the parties getting to the wedding when he gets there, finding out he's (gasp) got *immunities* all along, and his exit with Pappy, Pippy, and Poonanny makes Bubble Boy a hilarious comedy that is great for you late nighters. "},{"Title":"Hard to categorize","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most disagreed-about movies in the IMDB.  Depending on how this movie struck you, you either love it or hate it.  Or you think it's pretty good.  I've never seen a jury so divided.I think the key to this movie is watching it with low expectations.  It's a silly movie.  Don't look for high comedy.  It's the kind of movie that makes you chuckle in spite of yourself.And it has one of the truly memorable lines in filmdom.  I'm referring to the kids chasing the Ice Cream and Curry truck.I give this movie a 6 out of 10, which is about what the user ratings would average out to, if you threw out the people who loved it and hated it to the extreme. "}{"Title":"The wait for a decent summer movie is over!!!!!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A few months ago I had the opportunity to see Bubble Boy at one of those free screenings where they ask you to rate and analyze it (@ Thousand Oaks Janns Marketplace, CA).  It was a rough cut at the time but it was enough to convince me now, that it could be one of the best movies of the summer.  Let me explain.  You see, at the beggining of the season I was hyped for the big stuff (AI, Jurrasic 3, Apes, Pearl Harbor,American Pie 2), so when I saw this little known movie called Bubble Boy, I really liked it and moved on, looking now for the real big name/budget films.  A few months pass... I've seen all the supposed good films (Except AP2) and my final conclusion is that Bubble Boy is better than all of them.  It doesn't try to make a huge statement, it doesn't try to razzle/dazzle the audience, and it doesn't try to gross us out even more than recent and current comedies.  It simply focuses on some very likeable characters who offer more than just name recognition and crude jokes.  The characters all have heart, they all are positive role models, and they have great chemistry together. Is it possible that Hollywood has actually put out a decent story with decent values and developed characters???  YES they have, and Bubble Boy is it! OK, so the plot is very basic.  Boy is born w/o immunities, lives in bubble, falls in love with neighbor girl, journeys across the country to stop her marriage and declare his love for her. The story works and sets a perfect framework to learn with him about the real world as he influences the lives of some very diverse people.  The ending is simply great.  I was a litle worried how this was going to wrap up, but it did just fine.Jake Gyllenhaal plays the Bubble Boy and plays him well.  He's innocent, thoughtful, and humorously naive with the ways of the world.  The girl he falls in love with is Marley Shelton, who is very different from the  typical Hollywood bimbo.  She can actually act, and she portrays the love of Jimmy's (the Bubble Boy) with more than just good looks.I'm not going to undermine how hot she is, because she is, but there is so much more to her character.  The mom played by (Swoosie Kurtz) also does a great job being the fanatical, protective mother.  There are other great supporting characters that all add something to the Bubble Boy's journey. Two of my favorite characters were Pippy and Pappy, brothers who haven't spoken to each in over 86 years.  They just add more subtle humor to all the physical comedy that is plentiful.  That's what is truly great about this movie.  It has the slapstick, the subtle witty humor, developed characters, and a touching finale.  This is one well-rounded Bubble, and it deserves to be hit. "},{"Title":"Gyllenhaals best performance A profound and neglected gem!","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the best films of the last ten years. Gyllenhaal has never equaled this film - his performance is quite sublime. As is every one of the supporting cast. With Danny Trejo and Swoozie Kurtz both stand-outs. The film is an excellently written smart/stupid comedy. As an indictment of organized religion it works beautifully as the hapless Christ figure of Jimmy almost falls pray to gangs, cults, religion, vice and Fabio! 'Dude Where's My Car?' it most certainly is not... There may be juvenilia in this movie but in reality it is smart as a whip. I don't believe Blair Haynes has made any films since this and that is a loss. "},{"Title":"Lighten up!","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think most of the people who have rated this movie take it way too seriously. It's not a serious movie, guys! It's not putting anything down, it's just.. poking fun. It's pretty much a live-action, satirical, cartoon. It's one of those movies that if you don't just go along with it.. well....you're not with it.I love that this movie isn't so concerned with being so politically correct. It's one of the few movies I've seen that will actually do that. I think you should stop trying to be righteous all the time, and just let yourself laugh. Maybe you might be offending somebody, but who cares? It seems like everyone today is so easily offended. I'll bet some people are getting pretty hacked off at me right now, but I can state my opinions. It's a free country. People should start taking advantage of the fact that they have freedom of speech and won't be punished for what you say (except if it's against the president, but that's another story..)I love this movie. I love it, I love it, I love it.. It always makes me laugh no matter how depressed I am. And, ah, Jake Gyllenhaal is so sweet in it, so nice and so innocent. His mother is hilarious. She can go from really dramatic to really funny in an instant.If you haven't seen this movie, see it. If you've seen this movie and love it.. go see it again. If you've seen this movie and think it's an immature load of crap.. well, go find yourself some so-called mature comedy.. "},{"Title":"Offbeat humor that apparently a lot of folks didn't get.","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" As of this writing, this movie only has a 5.4 star average, which is a real shame. Bubble Boy is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, one of the rare films where I literally laugh uncontrollably several times while watching it. The humor is very unique though (and as many others have pointed out, not particularly politically correct most of the time), so I can see why a lot of people would give it 1 star and say it wasn't funny. Humor is a very subjective thing. That said, those people are just flat out wrong - this is easily one of the best comedies I've come across. If you like farcical, offbeat humor, you need to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Last great Camp movie!","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was actually one of the few who saw this movie in the theaters 10 years ago. I thank Seinfeld for spawning this movie. If he hadn't broke the ice with HIS bubble boy, we would have never been able to enjoy this one. First off, this movie offends EVERYBODY! Its great, all stereotypes are represented here. But its all done in a tasteful way. Hey! Its camp, that's what they do! If your one of those uptight, politically correct types who doesn't know how to laugh at yourself or others, you probably will be offended. But honestly, you were going to get offended by anything anyhow. Glad to see it on TV today. We need more people in this country affected by this courageous BUBBLE BOY! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I have ever seen!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been on IMDb for awhile, but this is the first movie that I commented on. And I did so because I simply could not believe that this movie got such low ratings! This has got to be one of the near perfect comedies that I have ever seen. It is fresh and exciting. Jake Gyllenhaal is infectiously innocent, energetic and silly. The movie is a cross between Pee Wee's Big Adventure and almost any John Waters film. I just watched it again and my face and sides are still hurting from laughing so hard. What I really liked about this movie was its perfect coordination of silly with smart humor. And as a few commenters here have mentioned, there is a lot of symbolism going on in this movie, so watch it once for the pure silly joy of it, then watch it again for the deeper meaning. "},{"Title":"Comedic spectacle that doesn't need sex-driven teens","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" A fine comedy movie that was sadly overshadowed by overly sexual films of its time.Gyllenhaal is surprisingly charming in a young boyish kinda way (what a throwback from Prince of Persia) but the real strong point of this film is that it takes risks as well as incorporating clichéd film sequences.It is politically incorrect, some might even say racist (The Indian and the cow, the FIVE HUNDRED DOWLAAAHHH!) but these are the artistic risks and it does pay dividends as it works concurrently with templated sequences (when all the freaks congregate for a massive climax at the wedding).Its creative plot is somewhat downwatered by the shallow twist, but at least he doesn't die.Overall, enjoyable and supremely good for a comedy movie at 2001. Outdoes many comedies around right now. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" So I was expecting for me to think this was the dumbest movie ever, but I was pleasantly surprised with how entertained I was. While incredibly ridiculous and unbelievable, it was pretty funny and interesting. Jake Gyllenhaal was slightly miscast in my opinion, but still delivered a quirky and charming performance as the Bubble boy. Really, all the supporting characters were hilarious as well. Perhaps some of the humor is a bit too out there for everyone, but I think some people will appreciate the film's creativity and originality. While still following the rom-com formula, this movie is still a step above and a breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"If you didn't like this movie you like Napoleon Dynamite","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie along with several Cohen Brothers, Marx Brothers, and Mel Brooks and Woody Allen movies rank as the funniest movies ever to be produced. How anyone could not laugh all the way through this (and be touched by the wonderful ending) is not comprehensible. You must see this movie is you like to laugh. If you laughed at Napoleon Dynamite please do not even try to understand any other movie. Jake G. did Donnie Darko in the same year (2001). I like both these movies. But Darko will leave you depressed and wondering what the heck did I see during these 2 hours? However, in Bubble boy you will be uplifted by his spirit and accomplishments and the great ending. Try both, but I suggest seeing Darko FIRST then watch Bubble boy to get your spirits back up. ENJOY BOTH! "},{"Title":"in the same vein as Pee Wee's Big Adventure and Rat Race","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" You have to be in a certain mood and have a little bit of a skewed sense of humor to enjoy this diamond in the rough. If you liked Pee Wee's Big Adventure then you'll like this movie too. Rat Race tried hard to capture the inane and superfluous humor of Bubble Boy and Pee Wee #1 but couldn't pull it off. Bubble Boy succeeds because it never takes itself too seriously. How can it? A movie based around a guy who crosses the US trying to stop his girl friend's wedding... in a plastic bubble. If you want something quirky, funny, and silly, but kinda clever, give this movie a try. Yes, it is very stupid, but it's also fun. Lighten up and enjoy. You'll be glad you did. There's more than a few chuckles and a couple of outright laughs, and a few places where you'll be scratching you head and thinking who could come up with this and how could they make it into a move?. Not because it's bad, but because it's so weird. Ice cream and curry? Who'd a thunk it?Don't let the low score on IMDb fool you. This movie is only for certain tastes, but if your funny bone is a little bent, then I'm sure you'll enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oh my goodness. How can people give this an F? I thought it was pretty good. It was SO funny. Extremely creative and a lot of laughs.No Gyllenhaal fan can give Bubble Boy an F. I'm a huge Gyllenhaal fan. He did such a great job with the facial expressions and all. I never thought I would see Jake Gyllenhaal be funny... but he really was. I'd like to see him do some more comedies. I like this goofy stuff of his. He pulls of the wacky hair-do wonderfully. Nobody else could have played the role better.The story got just slightly confusing with Pappy and Poonanny.But I still absolutely love Bubble Boy. I would have put exclamation marks && more capitalization in this but it's considered 'shouting'. I love this movie.  "},{"Title":"What can i say?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" basically this...brilliant. I have never seen such a film with the most pointless and weird plot but its laughs and brilliant humour makes it above average. Its basically about this boy who has been told he has no immunities so lives in a bubble. One day the girl next door visits and their loves blossoms however, his inability to declare his love leaves her getting married to an idiot at Niagara falls. Bubble boy has to rescue his one true love...his adventure is full of laughs, bikers, bright n shiny people and pippy and pappy...and don't forget poonani...he then rescues Chloe and finds out he's had immunities since he was 4 but all ends well...if you haven't seen it, what are you waiting for? trust me its fantastic! "},{"Title":"Nothing bad to say; an interesting combo of laffy taffy jokes..","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like I said, nothing bad to say about this movie... It's one of those that you can watch over and over again and still not catch every joke, or catch- OK, maybe after the 5th or 6th time you will. Depending on what you like. If you like quirky stuff and you think laffy taffy jokes are funny, you will love this movie!!! Jake is great in this flick. He goes along with his crazy mom until his love moves away to get married, then he must go search for her- from the comforts of his bubble suit- How romantic!!! Also, you will love the cameo appearances. If you want to waste an hour and a half of your life, but still laugh the whole time, go see it!!!  "},{"Title":"Taken WAY too seriously","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Bubble Boy is a comedy about a boy who is born with a rare condition-no immunities. To be able to survive, he must live in a huge bubble. But when his life-long crush(the girl next door) is getting married to the wrong guy, he creates a small bubble so he can go out and stop the wedding in niagra falls.  Right there a flag pops up. This is going to be a stupid slapstick comedy, like corky romano, another highly under rated comedy. People just take bubble boy too seriously. If you ever watch this movie, just remember to have fun, and not think of it as a serious comedy. If you take it seriously, you'll find yourself hating this movie, and turning into Richard Roeper. Just think of bubble boy, as the kind of movie that isn't supposed to be watched with a heavy heart. Maybe then you'll enjoy it like I did. 3/5 stars "},{"Title":"Good fun little movie to kill some time with.","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Make no illusions about it, this by no means is a great movie but it at least really knows how to be fun and entertain.Key to this movie is not to take it serious at all. It actually is being one crazy and silly movie, that really doesn't feature that much story and the little story that it does feature is incredibly flawed and badly written once you start to analyze it too seriously, which you really just shouldn't do.As a comedy this movie certainly does not fail. It made me laugh and I enjoyed watching the movie throughout. You might think this is being just a one joke movie about a boy living in a bubble but the movie manages to come up with plenty of fun and original stuff. As bad as the script and story are, the comical situations and dialog are all still well written and executed. Seems weird that director Blair Hayes never had a career after this movie, since he seems far more talented than the majority of modern comedy directors these days.It's basically a movie in which often a lot of random crazy stuff is happening. And this is also one of the more bad things about the movie I think. The movie is really hanging together from its coincidences and decides to simply go along with it all, purely in the interest of its comedy but it instead more comes across as some lazy and very simplistic film-making. The movie still works out well for most part but at others it just becomes too silly and even somewhat embarrassing to watch. But luckily it never really starts to annoy, or anything like that because the movie is just simply being too short for that.It's also a movie that is hanging together from its lots of random cameos. But I actually sort of like that about this movie and actually seems to fit the style of the movie. Probably reason why I like the cameos is because the movie doesn't feature any cameos from well known comedians but more from cult figures, such as Beetlejuice and Fabio and some up and rising comedians, such as Zach Galifianakis, who at the time still was pretty much an unknown in the film industry.But also the main characters and actors are being really good and enjoyable in this movie. Jake Gyllenhaal is actually genuinely good and fun in this early comical role by him and in contrast with the movies he wants to be associated with these days. I'm secretly hoping he'll someday return to silly comedies.Despite all of the complaints, this still remains a perfectly watchable and fun little comedy.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Goofy, fun spoof","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not academy award winning material here. This is not a film for you to think and analyze too deeply. This is a goofy, silly movie that is a spoof of the TV movie The Boy in the Plastic Bubble, and spoofs quite a few other things as well.Jake Gyllenhaall plays the main character - a boy who was born without a working immune system. He spends his life in the house with this piously religious, over protective mother played by Swoosie Kurtz and his quite father played by John Carroll Lynch. One of his only friends is his next door neighbor played by Marlie Shelton who decides to get married to the worst guy ever played by Dave Sheridan - and this is where Bubble boys decides to take he and his Bubble on the road to stop the wedding which is to be held in Niagra Falls. This is where the adventure begins. Bubble Boy hasn't had any other contact with humans except for in his room and once out in the world, he meets the most craziest of characters and experiences things he never had before as he is on his quest to Niagra Falls to stop the wedding of the girl he loves.Fun, very silly, lampoons and goofy as all get up - this is a film for those days you feel like that type of entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is offensive??","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a world we live in. Throughout the history of our great land and especially in arts and cinema, depicting people who are not considered normal is something so taboo that we have gone to great lengths to debase these forms.Granted, Bubble Boy isn't necessarily something we should defend to the death (unlike Freaks or something to that matter), but it presents the great problem of depicting people with disabilities. I will say this the movie did have its moments. While the overall structure of the film was pretty silly to begin with, the filmmakers at least showed they had a good time making this film. To me, I found it more inspirational to the fact people like Beetlejuice, Matthew McGrory (RIP) and Verne Troyer actually had roles in this film. Top it off with a multi-ethnic cast and you have yourself a rather watchable movie. Jake Gyllenhaal was also good as the sweet and naive protagonist, giving a great homage to John Travolta's Boy in the Plastic Bubble. But the funniest moment in the movie had to be the Fabio-led cult that was like an evil version of Up with PeopleThe Political Correctness Mafia will most likely try to strike this movie from the lexicon of America, I'll at least say I watched it. I'm not saying this is a great film, but at least it didn't make me fall asleep. "},{"Title":"lovable","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love Bubble Boy i think it is a really great film full of silly humour which always makes me laugh. I think Jake Gyllenhaal is great in it and plays jimmy really well also swoozie Kurts is fabulous as his mother. I love the journey that jimmy takes just to get the girl he loves and make her marry him instead of her idiot boyfriend. All the people that jimmy meets are fantastic and in all the ways they help him and all the different advice that they give him is great but also very funny at times. I love the character Jimmy he is so sweat and innocent and very gullible at times, but he is also very brave in the story leaving the only world he knows to go into one he has only seen from his window. I think the characters are all great and the story is very funny bubble boy is one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"I LAUGHED....A lot!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, maybe this is not one of Jake Gyllenhaals better movies, but it had me in stitches. Jake's madness in his acting in this film adds to the appeal. It's one of those refreshing films you can watch, laugh at, maybe shed a tear of joy but not have to think about it after. Yes, it maybe a stereotypical American love story, but it takes the idea and adds a twist of humour. Jake is a guy who has been bought up in a bubble as he has no immune system, so any germs he comes into contact with may kill him. As he grows older he starts to experience things in life that we in our every day lives are used to...particularly girls. There are some really funny moments in this film. If you're looking for a giggle, a bit of Jake cuteness and a night in i recommend this highly! "},{"Title":"Sweet silly fun with a message","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have just sat up until 1.30 am to watch this film and enjoyed every minute of it. I have not enjoyed so much a late-night movie that has been new to me for ages.And to think I was going to avoid this, due to bad reviews. Jake Gyllenhaal is brilliant as the naive and frustrated lad discovering himself and the world out there. It is a story for everyone. Soosie Kwirtz ( sorry if I misspelled that) is great as the mad possessive mother and a wonderful character-full cast with weird and wacky but quite believable crazy happenings. The dad is wonderfully underplayed. I just feel so glad I saw this, and will enjoy watching it again. I love movies true to their purpose (All About Eve , Grapes of Wrath etc) This is not in their league as a great movie but it's heart and soul is in the film as much as any other great movie. This could so be a cult film. "}{"Title":"Soooooooooo Cute!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was so UNBELIEVABLY cute! Jake really did play the wide-eyed innocent guy with boyish looks and such an optimistic outlook! My favorite lines Chloe Mark and I have been dating on and off for a while now, and . . . well, he asked, me, he asked me . . .  Jimmy To go fishing? (*lol I especially like this line because in the upcoming film Brokeback Mountain Jake and Ledger's excuse for going off together is we was fishing buddies ;)p!* back to Bubble Boy . . .) Chloe No! Jimmy To go to the movies? Chloe Noooo! *Here comes the CUTEST voice crack ever* Jimmy To get mar-*VOICE CRACK!!*ried? awwwwww poor Jimmy! I cried right there! Oh and then the other great line I'd rather hold you in my arms for one moment than live my life knowing I never could. Oh and then no one can forget 500 DOLLA! I think it's REALLY funny seeing Jimmy/Jake imitate a Chinese guy =)) "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well here you go, you saw Donnie darko and now you want to see more so you're considering seeing this one.....................Well, you should. It succeeds at being clever, funny and sarcastic. It also features the biggest collection of..... well I guess I'll call them cliche character actors people who are always cast as the same type of role like little person latino gangster ambiguously Eastern guy and Stiffler type jock. Watch for them it's really interesting and rather amusing. The movie seems to have been promoted as a teen romp. It really isn't, think Pee Wee's big adventure meets...........................Edward Scissorhands.Trust me, after all I'm a web bunny and a cool chick! "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that the trailer for this movie made it seem rather unappealing.  I only began watching it, expecting to find it uninteresting and turning it off in a few minutes.  However, this turned out not to be the case.  I found the humor relatively original and funny.  I laughed out loud on several occasions, and though the ending was a piece of necessary cheese, I was overall satisfied by the movie.  It's worth seeing if it comes on TV and you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"not as bad as you would think.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read many reviews of this movie, all of which said it sucked.  One I read said that a commercial director directed it, and that he couldn't direct for crap.  I don't think it's true at all. I saw this movie this past weekend and I actually thought it was allot of fun.  Seeing jay and silent bob strike back the previous night still didn't make this movie seem stupid to me (and my friends). Anyway, This movie is good if you're a teenager and wanting to see something more comical.  I know us teens laugh at sexual humor and when people cuss, but this movie doesn't have allot of that, but it does have its share, and the plot and silliness of the movie itself just makes it fun.  Overall I would say this is a fun movie, and if you're stuck with younger family members or friends, it's still okay to see (parents wouldn't complain about it) so go out and see it! (At least give it a chance) because it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"May sound weird but it is 1 of the funniest films i have seen","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" At first you may think what a lame title for a movie but actually it is very clever. The story is complete different and one of the most random story going. Jake Gyllenhaal plays bubble boy really well and produces many laughs. It has many really funny moments which you will laugh at. His mum is so evil in the film and is really annoying but the character is played well.In some parts during the film there is some bad acting but that doesn't really occur a lot. It is a comedy and is made to make you laugh and it does.Every time i have watch this film i always find something new to laugh about. If you see it on the TV or a friend has got it watch it. "},{"Title":"Sorry all Republican Religious freaks you won't like this movie!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  But to the normally sane world (the part WITH a sense of humor) this movie has more funny lines and sight gags than 200 Hugh Grant so-called comedies (with the exception of SMALL TIME CROOKS, which is a Woody Allen movie anyway).WATCH THIS MOVIE if you have a sense of humor and an IQ above 100... "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny! A definite watch","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For the longest time I passed the movie over because of all of the negative press it continued to receive.  However I finally did see it, and it is amazingly funny.I watched some of the interviews that I could find with the actors and really those who are against the movie really haven't gone to see it.Yes, there are some parts that some people may find to be a little offensive, but if you can laugh at yourself, or your religion then I think you should see it.  It's not like they try to pick on just one group of people.Really I can't stress enough how much you should see this movie.  Don't pass by it any longer.  Be ready to laugh really hard. "},{"Title":"Too smart for the suburbs?","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one slipped through the cracks. This is Jake Gyllenhall's best performance (including Donnie Darko) by far. Deft, sassy, and smart! No wonder it died at the multi-plexes! It works as a hysterically funny film, and as so much more... The only people who accept Bubble Boy are 'outsiders', he is hunted by zealots and is willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for love... does that ring any bells? A classic! "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it--I loved it","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film's got what Joe Vs. The Volcano has...sweet, lovable characters in completely impossible circumstances. A slapstick black comedy with a touch of good-natured cynicism, wrapped around a fractured fairy tale.If you're not a fan of the offbeat--if guilty pleasure is something you'd never admit to enjoying--then by all means, you should avoid this film.I went into the viewing experience with no expectations and laughed so hard my abdominal muscles ached for three days. It was absolutely, delightfully offbeat. Not for the mainstream movie fan. DEFINITELY a must-see for folks who can appreciate something that isn't cut from sensitive cloth, though.It's There's Something About Mary for fans of 70s kitsch, with Jake Gyllenhaal, who deserves a level of stardom nobody's achieved since Tom Cruise thundered into the 80's. Yeah. He's that good. "},{"Title":"creative and fun","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I admit, when my dad brought it back from the video store I rolled my eyes. But I promised to watch the first 5 minutes and then decide. I got hooked. I thought this movie was great. There is a lot of underlying humor that you will understand maybe the third time around. It makes fun of society and humans in general in a way i think we can all laugh at. Don't take this movie seriously. Its great for brainless fun, but is even more enjoyed when you notice the hidden humor. "}{"Title":"I loved It!!!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would have to say that this movie was more then I thought it was going to be.  I liked the movie because of the funny characters it provided and also the morals that were presented in the movie.  All around I would just have to say that this movie is great and that I loved it!!!! "},{"Title":"Is it Shakespeare?  No.  Is it worth watching?  Yes.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People who say this is the worst movie ever must not have seen many movies.  Folks, this ain't supposed to be Love Story.  It has a likeable cast (which makes all the difference), and a nice pace.  You also can't go wrong with Stacy Keibler and Midajah mud wrestling a boy in a bubble. There's chemistry between the talented two leads, with a genuine sweetness at the core. It's an equal opportunity offender, and there is no gross-out humor (as opposed to many alleged comedies that have come out lately). Is it the movie of the year?  By all means no.  Does it get a bad rap?  I think so.  You could do a lot worse.  I was entertained, and in the end that's all that matters to me.  Though Beetlejuice might want to stick to his day job.  "},{"Title":"Lighten UP!!!  Fun movie not UTTER GARBAGE like some want you to believe","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For the guy who said UTTER GARBAGE thanks for your OPINION....  I do not agree however.I just got through watching Bubble Boy for the second time.  For those of you who liked Scorpion King do not watch this movie... It is not action packed nor is it designed for the fifteen year old WWF fan to appreciate or even understand.  OH yeah if you stake claim to any religions.... I.E. Cristian, Taoist, Buddist, Muslum, Indian, Jewish, or just a cult member do not watch this movie!!! You will probably be offended....The movie is basically about a boy who doesn't have the nerve to tell a girl he likes her.  She goes off to get married.  He chases after her to stop the wedding.   Very typical story.  EXCEPT this boy has spent his hole life with his overbearing Lying Christian mother who has kept him inside a plastic bubble...  When he decides to leave she goes looking for him and he meets a variety of people along the way.  Of course their destinies get intertwined. Just in time for the grand ending.  I understand that not everyone will like this movie.. for obvious reasons.  BUT it was a good movie and it does require more than 10 active braincells to appreciate! "},{"Title":"Not As Bad as you Think??","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People Said it looked stupid because of the Trailor, i myself said this looks so Good and it Was better than Expected.  Jake Gyllenhaal was amazing aside from Doing October Sky which he is best known for, this was a major career step that some of the best actors take years to do, he did it quick and Nailed the role amazingly.  In the Majority of the Movie you can see that when he wants to step out in the world, or him doesn't know something or bluntly puts something to someone its so real its like he doesn't know the Consquences or anything this is what he knows and he tells the person what he knows if the have it, Such as Religion or a person in general.  The mom is a very God Loving Person and she tells him the bad and good but not all of it.  When Bubble Bo First stepped out into the world you could see that it was like he was actually first stepping out, He made it so Realistic like all this was bad new.  It was amazing you were Looking through his eyes and seeing it for the first time to and the ending talk about superb.  All in all it was a very good movie hilarious, great acting, and just alot of fun the people who were in it, As for the Bubble why it didn't pop Doctors probably came up with some type of great plastic or something that's basically unbreakable under certain Circumstances. In Conclusion a Highly Recommended must see for those who love a Good Laugh and a Good cast  "},{"Title":"an unexpected pleasure","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" you know, when this film came out after donnie darko i really wondered what jake gyllenhaal was thinking. it took me years to view it, and i just wandered back upon it after another maybe ten or so years and watched it again wondering if i would like it as well.as stupid and offensive as the premise may seem--and as much as the movie continues to play to counter-politically-correct truisms... there is a sweetness and an allegorical soundness to how the plot plays out. there is a lot of real life themes written in large and outrageous terms in this production. it makes me reflect on my life, which has been lived in many large and outrageous decisions, some of which seemed like mistakes, but which have led me to experience so much of the world i would have missed if i'd lived in a shell as so many of us do. i can't say whether that's entirely good or bad, but i'm glad to have actually lived it. considering that my first viewing was before and my most recent viewing was after, it's good to be reminded of the perspective. freak shows, religious zealots, bikers, buzzards and all. "},{"Title":"gotta see it now","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Probably never would have seen this movie if I hadn't accidentally bought the scout-taxi that is a part of his adventure.A lot of my friends told me they saw my scout in the movie they liked, I didn't believe it but checked it out. Read a lot of reviews where people thought it was bad/insulting whatever I enjoyed its light funny style.The cast is great the story actually made me think about how every mother must feel when their children leave the nest.From now on I will look a little harder on the rental shelves when all the new releases are out.Cant wait to see more of Jakes films I need to catch up on JarHead (former marine myself) Donnie Darko,Day after tomorrow,October sky and guess what? I'll be driving my scout proudly. "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable and silly but still fresh, breezy and fun if you're in the mood","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Born without an immune system Jimmy Livingston is raised within a plastic bubble to protect him against the diseases and germs of the real world that could kill him. His religious and protective mother teaches him everything he needs to know (or rather she wants him to know) and Jimmy has no reason to ever want to leave his room. Until that is, when he becomes a teenage and the beautiful young Chloe moves in next door. Viewing her from afar, Jimmy cannot believe it when Chloe ignores the rumours and comes to meet him in his room. Despite his mother's reservations the two become good friends without the bubble getting in the way; but eventually the physical barrier starts to become too much and she heads off to get married and he coldly rejects her friendship to avoid the hurt. Too late he realises he loves her but sets off in a small mobile bubble to stop her.If the concept doesn't tell you that this is a silly comedy then the plot certainly should and, if you still expect more from this then you deserve everything you get. Another reviewer has put it better than me by saying that, like the bubble, the film is quite empty inside but it is still fun. The road trip ramble reminded me of Pee Wee Herman's adventure and the style of humour is nearly as weird and imaginative. Strange encounter follows strange encounter and before long a whole load of people are after Jimmy for one reason or another; it is all very silly indeed but it moves along swiftly enough and is fresh and amusing enough to stop you lingering over this and just go along with it. I laughed out loud a few times but generally I found it breezy and quite amusing.The cast are pretty good mainly because they buy into the mood of the film. Gyllenhaal is probably most famous for a much darker (but just as weird) role but he delivers the comedy well and seems to get the joke. Kurtz and Lynch are both good although she steals all her scenes. Support from Shelton is good although her character didn't convince by how suddenly she seems to be falling for Jimmy. Trejo and Troyer head up a weird cast of characters that Jimmy bumps into on his way in the world.Overall this is a very silly film but one that is amusing and enjoyable if you are in the mood for it. It moves forward easily and without consequence and while being fresh and breezy it is instantly forgettable. A surprise find for me it more than served the purpose of entertaining me. Worth seeing if you are in the mood for a silly, fresh and enjoyable comedy. "},{"Title":"offensively funny and full of giggles","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this on British television a few nights ago. I expected to find it was really lightweight and plain silly.And it was! But it made me laugh a lot at is social stereotypes and its little (if any whatsoever) political correctness.Just coz it uses these kind of stereotypes doesn't make it bad or unsensitive. Sometimes we all have just got to laugh so if you are gonnna watch it make sure you do not do so with a serious face on. Lighten up and enjoy even if you social boundaries are telling you that you shouldn't be laughing at some chinise guy shouting 500 dollar! repeatedly.Plus Jake Gyllenhall training for weirdness for his role in Donnie Darko. "},{"Title":"A good laugh, not to be taken seriously","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I also (as stated in a comment by someone on the 4th Dec.) stayed up and watched this movie till 130am in the morning, discovering it out of pure chance. I really had to get up early, but I couldn't sleep until I saw the ending! It was a fairly good movie, not exactly a blockbuster but worth a watch, it kept me interested and it moves at just the right pace as to keep you watching more. The issues dealt with in the movie might seem a bit controversial to some, but some things just aren't meant to be taken seriously! All of the characters made me chuckle now and again. Jake plays the part well and it stars a few other familiar faces. It kept me going and I had to find out what it was this morning, I'd been wondering what it was called!Not amazing, but worth a look when you need a laugh. "},{"Title":"wild fire, you were my life!","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" writing is basically in the style of national lampoon type. funny moments are every so often. mrs. kurtz definitely breaks her usual mold. She starts out being religious, but with mentioning of other cast members, you can tell she has a past. interaction between the bubble boy and hot chick is nice. you almost wish he had let her inside the bubble when she was drunk. the interaction with slim and bubble rocks. the religious cult freaks are simply funny as hell. you know when they boot him, that they will need him back. i am going to hell, the funniest line in the movie. ice cream and curry, what a mix. watching the religious cult become curry freaks at the end rocks. "}{"Title":"Actually, it was funny...)","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie, and I thought before that it was gonna be like a boring baby movie or something for small kids... ...but this movie was actually pretty funny! It wasn't like childish jokes either... i laughed hard!)... I enjoyed! and jimmy is so cute.Jake Gyllenhaal is the best actor in the world!...and in the ending you could just die for him...;)well, i like Bubble Boy...but it wasn't the greatest movie i have ever seen.../Andreas say hi to jake from me...)whatever "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm Crazy, but....","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I avoided this film for a long time because I heard it sucked.  But, guess what?  It's actually really good. Weird. Funny. Moving. Smart. Sure, not everything works but it tries and Jake G is really really dang good (as is Swoozie).  DON'T LISTEN TO THE BS  REVIEWS....RENT THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"And then Pinnochio came out of his plastic bubble, touched the filthy little whore next door, then died.  The End. <Mom reading to Bubble Boy>","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Much, much better than I expected.  My twin friends Emily and Natalie got me to bring home BUBBLE BOY  as my free rental this week, and am surprised at how well-written and entertaining it is. The whole film could easily be 30 minutes long, the first 20 minutes plus the last 10 minutes.  The middle is a mostly funny, sometimes crude, usually strange depiction of his road trip to Niagra Falls.  But overall it is well-written, well-acted and is a very sweet story of boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy desperately tries to get girl back. With an over-protective mom as an obstacle to overcome.some SPOILERS follow, please no not read if you haven't seen BUBBLE BOY yet, unless you don't mind some of the surprise being spoiled.The film begins with a very cute depiction of the baby being born and ending up in a clear bubble because of his lack of immunities. At 4 he is brought home, and his room is fixed up with a large plastic bubble and a decontamination chamber, and as he grows his mom is his teacher. A religious fanatic, she teaches him only what she wants him to learn, he thinks there is only one TV channel, only one children's magazine, that the Indians voluntarily went to reservations so they could sell tax-free cigarettes and run gambling casinos, and all fairy tales she read to him ended with the character coming out of the bubble and dying (see summary quote above). In a funny scene he wakes up with an erection, hits it with a baseball bat, yells, mom comes and says, Don't touch it! Do what I have dad do when that happens to him, recite the Pledge of Allegiance until it goes away.His only real contact with the outside world becomes his window, and he admires the pretty girl who moves next door. One day she visited him, he says, I know, Chloe, the whore next door. My mom teaches me everything. In spite of this awkward start, they become fast friends, he teaches her guitar, but when she tries to visit him through the decontamination chamber, he won't let her in, afraid. Not knowing what else to do, she accepts the marriage proposal of her sometimes boyfriend, a real dud, and is to be married in 3 days at Niagra Falls.  She leaves, he decides he really needs to intervene, builds himself a portable bubble and begins his attempt to get there.The middle 50 minutes of the movie involve slapstick with the strange people and strange situations he finds himself in. This is the weakest part of the film. However, when he gets to the ceremony, he bursts in, opens his bubble, kisses the girl and says, I'd rather spend one minute holding you, instead of living and never getting the chance. In a hilarous scene, he falls to the floor, dead like all the characters in all the stories his mom read to him. But dad says, Son, you're not dead. Mom is quick to counter, Yes, you are!  When the full truth comes out, his illness, lack of immunities, was cured when he turned 4 and was brought home, but his mom wanted to protect him from the world. He did get the girl, her attempt at the first marriage was annuled, she married the Bubble Boy, everyone lived happily ever after. Except this being a comedy, the main theme is not unlike The Truman Show, where Jim Carrey's character had to risk death to escape the artificial environment of his studio city, giving up a life of ultimate safety to experience the risks and hard knocks of the real world. To all those who rate BUBBLE BOY a 1, I say rasberries to you, you have no idea at all what makes an entertaining movie.  It isn't a 10 either, but probably in the 6 to 8 range is an appropriate rating, compared to other good comedies. "},{"Title":"Genius, two fingers to political corectness!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I happened upon this movie purely by chance, hopping the cable channels, andI want to know WHY HAVE I NEVER HEARD OF THIS MOVIE????? It is brilliant!I was laughing from start to finish, you can't complain at jokes poked atfreakshows when we live in a world in which they exist, the actors who played  these roles obviously are comforable enough with themselves to take part and if  they are not offended, why are you? If something is funny, like ice cream and curry, then lets laugh about it. This film is far more than any teen comedy and should not be placed in that  bracket. It is a shame that the producers feel the need to sell it by connecting it  with the painfully unfunny Austin Powers films. Some great gags, excellent casting, locations, and cool cinematography giveBubble boy is essence, and there are plenty of great in jokes.... I need some  sticky patches class. Great to see Danny Trejo given more than two lines and a sneer, and yes ,wholly attractive love interest. - Could you get a girl who looks more like Heather  Graham?Or a goon who looks more like Stiffler ?Or a hero who looks more likeTobey Maguire? Let me just pledge allegiance to the flag while I wait for my boner to subside..... "},{"Title":"Interestingly Funny","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I know some people don't care for it, but I found it to be an odd kinda funny. For some reason it doesn't seem to grab some people's attention.  You just have to be open-minded when you watch it.  Ok, well, that's my comment. "},{"Title":"All in all, a good movie.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I couldn't help but notice that there were no positive reviews to a movie I liked, so I decided to change that. Don't get me wrong, this movie is totally ludicrous, but that doesn't stop it from being funny. By the way, I need to point out that  the Bubble Boy is not immune to everything. That would mean that he never get's sick. He is immune to nothing, thus he needs the bubble. Most with a forth grade education know the difference. Anyway, the movie is extremely funny, but immature at that. I recommend it for teenage guys who need a meaningless laugh. Like I said, it's totally unbelievable, but also totally harmless and pretty funny. Hope anyone who actually cares what these things say enjoys. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this would be very bad. It is very funny.A lot of people say that this movie is incredibly offensive. Lighten up! If it makes fun of everybody then it's okay! Besides, it's only teasing really. It's over the top. There's just one ridiculous character after another, and they're all hilarious. The bright and shiny, the indian guy, the gang, they're the best. The freaks are funny too, and Dr. Freak is great. And the mother's amazing. And Jake Gyllenhaal wouldn't make a bad choice as far as I'm concerned. So, if you aren't too embarassed, and can rent it without worrying that everyone who knows you rented it will laugh at you, and ridicule you for the rest of your life, then do it. It's incredibly underrated, and very awsome, so get to it. "},{"Title":"The Wizard of Oz meets Rat Race","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The politically correct have lambasted Bubble Boy for making fun of those unfortunate enough to be immuno-deficient (read  People with AIDS).  In reality, the lead character is an engaging, if incredibly naive kid, and one far more sympathetic to the Bubble Boy in Seinfeld, who was a nasty SOB. Moreover, the humor goes after everyone, not just one or two ethnicities and creeds, so its offensiveness is tolerable, and occasionally, as when it roasts cults, right on the money.  For those who are bothered by midget jokes, and Jewish jokes, Christian jokes, and (literally) sacred cow jokes, I have two words  Lighten up!That's not the real problem with Bubble Boy.  Nor is it his anal-retentive, over-protective mother, well-played by Swoosie Kurtz.  The problem with this flick is that it's over-the-topness interferes with the story, so what you have are a series of episodes, some hilarious, others big groaners, which are not cohesive enough to allow the story to build to its proper climax.  It's great to be outrageous, but the outrageousness should contribute to story development.Nevertheless, it's funny, and for the most part, I found it far more enjoyable than most other movies of its type, such as the overrated Road Trip.One point  During the latter part of his journey, our Bubble Boy finds himself smack in central Illinois, looking at a range of snowcapped mountains towards the horizon.  In Illinois?  Duhh.Above average for its genre. "},{"Title":"The most UNDER-RATED COMEDY of all time!!! (contains bubble boy spoilers/analysis)","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off let me say that I spent hard earned dollars to see the following movies the day they came out Tom Cats, Rat Race, and god yes even Freddy got Fingered!!! When the trailer for bubble boy hit theaters, i said out loud hell no! The film has been on video and dvd about a year and a half now... Last night, due to my girl troubles with trying to win back the X, i found myself inside with a pizza watching STARZ. They ran fast and the furious, so i watched it, and it said coming up next Bubble boy i figured free movie, my night couldnt get worse... I was prepared for a horribly predictable comedy with about 3 one-liners, and what i saw was a pure masterpiece. I am a huge fan of john hughes and kevin smith movies, and bubble boy was up there with teen comedies.The premise, Jimmy, a boy born without immunities falls in love with the girl next door, Chloe, not ever risking a relationship, he loses her to his rival Mark. Chloe leaves him a note reading I love you, and Jimmy realizes that he must get to niagra falls in three days time to stop her wedding.It is definitly predictable, but it is susposed to be that way! Jimmy's world is so unreal, it is almost like that of Lane Myer (Savage Steve Holland's Better off dead, another american classic!!!) Five minutes into the real world, and he gets hit by a bus. To enjoy the movie, you have to take a step back from reality, and realize that this kid has never lived a day in the actual world, and this is the impression he gets from it... Jimmy winds up meeting a SLEW of oddball characters who try to get him to his destination, or set him free. He is picked up by a cult called the Bright and shinies, this was particularly funny for me, because my uncle is a member of an actual cult in india, the Amaches or something like that, the shinies reject him, and jimmmy wanders along a road... Jimmy keeps on meeting ppl, and each time delivers the line I have to get to niagra falls to stop chloe from getting married he offers no backround information, but seems to never get tired of saying that.  all of the characters he meets are eventually beautifully intertwined, and the best characters are dr. phreak (verne troyer) the japanese guy (FIHUNDRED DOLLA!) and the gang, pippy, pappy, poon(bang) and poonani!Jimmy and his mother alone carry the movie. The only annoying part is the major passage of time in the beginning. In closing I'd like to say What is wrong with you people!!! How can you not like a movie with a kid trapped in a plastic bubble? that's brilliant! Way better than the crappy original with Travolta. Verne troyer and bubble guinea alone would make me want to buy this! I give bubble boy 3 1/2 stars(To redeem myself, let me say that i own over 350 dvds, and my top ten favorites are Die Hard, When Harry met sally, Apocolapyse now, Goodfellas, Godfather, Better off dead, back to the future, ferris bueller, Empire strikes back, mallrats) "},{"Title":"Sorry to say, but this movie impresses the hell out of me.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy. How offensive! How can they make fun of people with no immune system? That's just wrong! That's not right! Two tickets please.Boy, this was quite a film. It was funny, full of heart and sweetness.It was no less humorous than Road Trip, American Pie,Animal House...These films were all innovative. Bubble Boy had the same amount of Laughs, heart, and less offensive content.The actors give their all, the script is actually very fun, and damn it! Its well made! You wanna talk a more offensive film? See Boy in the plastic bubble. That's offensive AND embarassing.I think it's funny...especially FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAH?! "}{"Title":"I Love This Movie!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the funniest, feel good movies I have ever seen. Furthermore, it is a deep movie there somewhere under all the funny stuff. Know this, it gets better and funnier as the movie progresses.  And Bettlejuice, Bigfoot and mini me are really funny too. "},{"Title":"A post-modern gem","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was a lot of fun! I saw this movie because I was impressed with Jake Gyllenhaal in Donnie Darko, a great film. When I looked at some of the other reviews I noticed that the folks who didn't care for this film were younger viewers. They are, of course, entitled to their opinions - I was allowed to dislike Home Alone and I was apparently the only one on the planet who felt that way. Having said that, I think that this film, while being about a teenaged boy isn't necessarily made to be appreciated by a teenaged boy (or girl). One reason is that there are so many classic film references that they simply may not understand the satire/humor. I'm just making a wild guess here but unless the average 15 year old has taken a film appreciation course, a movie like The Graduate (which is lovingly spoofed at the end) probably hasn't made it on his or her must see list. For those who thought this film was cruel, look past the vehicle - remember how Animal Farm wasn't about animals? So if you didn't grow up watching Land of the Lost or if you thought Life of Brian was blasphemous, you may not have had enough time to acquire the taste for a great post-modern comedy like Bubble Boy.  "},{"Title":"smart & witty satire on life...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy was wonderful!  They were brave enough to give us REAL comedy that pokes fun at stereotypes & society as a whole.  Witty and intelligent entertainment for fans of The Simpsons (an excellent & hillarious satire, if you choose to see that element of it) and other great farces.  I agree that its definately for viewers who don't care about being PC.  Political Correctness is pathetic and cowardly and I sincerely hope we are approaching an era of honesty and tolerance instead!!!  Woo-hoo for Bubble Boy!This film will be surely be a cult classic in a few years!!If you like happy comedy that makes fun of life, also try Josie & The Pussycats (SO MANY people did not get the point) or Galaxy Quest (another potential cult classic) "},{"Title":"don't be lame","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  everyone needs to get off their high horses and just enjoy some mindless humor... i thought bubble boy was very funny.... sure it was no academy award winner but for a $3.00 rent it was great... lighten up... i'm tired of all the people who think they know what makes a good movie... you are all lame... a true movie fan loves motion picture... i have seen many movies which i didn't like... but bubble boy was not one of them... so if your not a tight ass and have an open mind about what is funny... go out and rent this movie... oh yeah... and there is nothing wrong with laughing at a boy in a bubble... it was a movie... were you offended during i am sam? or rainman? or something about mary? or forrest gump? ARE ALL OF YOU JUST AFRAID TO LAUGH?? p.s. don't criticize... just be entertained  "},{"Title":"Could have been a great absurdist satire..","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People don't give this movie enough credit.. Intentional or not, the movie contains some satire of religious or social 'types'. You have four types.. The ultra conservative Wasps, the Jump on the band wagon cultist types, the eastern religion man (who converts the cultists in the end), and the heathens - the bikers and the circus phreaks(who strangely enough fight each other at one part in the movie).. They all chase after this boy in a bubble - a boy who hasn't been soiled by the outside world. I am sure this was unintentional, because I've listened to a lot of the commentary on the dvd, but it's something to think about when watching the movie..  "},{"Title":"Walking into it as the worst movie you've ever seen, it's not that bad at all","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People that hated on this movie by comparing it to comedic greats are in for a disappointment when going to watch this movie.But if you look at it as what it really is, a fairly low-budget fun comedy, it really can be quite entertaining.The director mixes in a lot of elements that you may have seen in Farrelly Bros. movies, such as midgets (w00t w00t), undiscussed sexual humor, pushing the envelope on the poking fun at certain fundamentalist religions, races, social groups, etc., and of course, making fun of people with rare ailments.One major complaint about the movie...the soundtrack. You heard the same Blink 182 song so many damn times you began to wonder if the director was trying to play it off as a Wagnerian theme. So the soundtrack gets a big thumbs down.Was this movie ridiculous? Of course! It's a COMEDY.  I don't except to see Tartovsky filming or interlaced artist filming bursting out of every scene. This movie really emphasizes how you form impressions of a movie before you go in to see it. "},{"Title":"Intermittently very funny, and stupid, but funny","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like many slapstick toilet-humor films, you have to take this one with a grain of stupid don't expect an intellectual romp through the finest of post-Renaissance political satire.  It's dumb.However, as those familiar with this genre have learned, that some of these movies can occasionally be funny.  This one is.  Occasionally.It is not consistently funny, but when it is, it is very funny.  Don't worry; this is NOT Freddy Got Fingered.  The humor is generally unique, and the timing is executed skillfully.In other words, keep an open mind, and you may find yourself laughing whether you want to or not. "},{"Title":"One of the better comedies of 2K1","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Considering some of the other comedies of 2001 like Dude, Where's My Car?, Freddy Got Fingered and Saving Silverman - this one actually had a decent enough plot, funny enough jokes, and characters you could empathize with and care for.  Even the gross-out humor (the cow being run over) still came off funnier than any of the gross-out humor in Freddy Got Fingered or Scary Movie I/II.  Not because it relied on the actual grossness - but the reaction of the character it affected.  The racial humor made some below-the-belt swipes that worked much like Mel Brooks could have pulled-off in his prime (This will never work.  A hundred thousand dollars? THEY'RE JEWS!).  Plus the intertwining of the characters and their stories he meets along the way is entertaining to watch unfold.  I mean, come on how could you not laugh at the Patches joke, or Man this is good curry.Most of all, there is a STORY!  As predictable as it is, it's still draws you in to find out what happens next.  If you are looking for a serious film about human disabilities, this is not it.  If you want some good slapstick comedy, this does the job better than most of the other supposed comedies of last year.  "},{"Title":"Thought I was renting Disney - got something totally enjoyable instead.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, to the parents that saw the cutesy previews and read the Disney-esque title and took their kids to see this flick, only to be apalled, I'll apologize for my praising of this movie.But to everyone else that went to see a film called Bubble Boy with the intentions of being treated to a high quality comedy, and couldn't appreciate the dry-witted humour, too frickin' bad.This movie was a gem.  I rented it with the intention of showing the kids but with the PG-13 rating, I decided to watch it first because maybe I'd be able to appreciate it more than the preteens.  What I watched was something that was maybe one or two fucks (the word) or comedic violent scene (a cow laying in the road is mutilated by a bus-load of cultists while its being prayed over by a Hindu ice cream truck driver) away from an R rating (probably had to cut out some stuff), but overall had humour that I know the kids wouldn't understand.  From Jimmy popping his first boner in front of his over-bearing Mom, to Danny Trejo turning in a rough-but-still-laughable rendition of a hardcore and yet caring biker.All the characters are silly and the placement of well-known faces in silly roles (Fabio as the cult leader) to me, made this movie high quality along the lines of Dumb & Dumber and Me, Myself, & Irene.  Critics need to be able to understand and laugh at all types of humour, from Woody Allen, to the Airplane!'s.My suggestion  rent the movie, put the kids in bed (if u got em), grab your bowl, bong, or whatever party favour you enjoy, and pop the Bubble Boy in. You will enjoy it.Rating 8 out of 10-markd  "},{"Title":"Very weird but cool movie!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know a lot of people hate this movie, and granted the marketing campaign did make it look like crap, but you got to at least rent it.  I saw through the ads and could tell early on that it wouldn't be a great movie, that it would be very funny in parts and I was dead on.  The movie is too cartoonish and sometimes lame, but there are so many incredibly hysterical moments in this film to not admire it.  I'll even go as far as to call this flick a flawed masterpiece, because even though some of the sex and a few of the religion jokes made me scoff at how stupid they were, the rest of the movie is very original and made me laugh nonstop.  I am sure I will rent this flick again in the future to watch with friends (as should you). "}{"Title":"The best movie you'll ever see!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble boy-The best movie in the history of movie making, if you haven't seen this brillant film yet then GO or buy it when it comes out. The mix of wild comedy and romance was a big hit for me. I wasen't prepared to see a boy running around in a bubble but it was sure worth going to and getting suprised about. The actor Jake Gyllenhaal,20, is the best actor in the UNIVERSE, he was the best role for this part in the movie, if he wasent Jimmy, I dont think I would of really liked the movie as much as I did. It comes out on video/rent January.16,2002 and im going to be the first in line to buy it. "},{"Title":"I feel the need to write about this film ... =)","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie and honestly, I expected it so suck when I read about it on the upcoming movies sheets but when I saw the trailers, I began to like itand when I finally saw it in the theaters, I loved it!this movie rocked! it was soooooooooo funneeeee! I think its going to make cult status coz everybody hated it and then after awhile everybody will love itthe problem with the movie was the upcoming movie sheets, they described it as this guy who goes in search for love but is trapped in a plastic bubble. It sounded like another contrived Hollywood plot and so nobody wanted to watch it =( (But it WAS another contrived Hollywood plot, and it was good!)and here's another thing everybody canned it and Jake Gyllenhaal (gawd, he has to change that name, I still can't pronounce it) was still unknown. But the same people who canned it are the same people, I have a feeling, that will praise Donnie Darko and so some of them will go back and say Bubble Boy was genuistic!but you know what, this has happened before, remember these were the same producers who made Austin Powers nobody ever saw the first Austin Powers and then everybody saw the second one but I don't think Bubble Boy can have a good sequel.oh well, if you feel like having a good time, go out and watch BUBBLE BOY! =)and oh yeah, i think the writer of this movie watched the Boy in a Plastic Bubble starring John Travolta, and if you saw that movie, you'll love this one, coz it makes fun of the other one, heeheehee "},{"Title":"It was actually pretty good. Don't listen to critics!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, first off, this isn't the best movie I've seen, but it was actually kind of funny. I liked the concept of the movie and it looked funny. Mind you, there are some gross moments in there, but it was geared more towards teens, and I'm a teen, and my two friends and I really enjoyed it. I thought the bright and shiny people were hilarious and i still can't get that song out of my head. Verne Troyer was cute as well, and I really enjoyed it. So don't listen to what the critics say and see it for yourself. They aren't teens believe it or not and they're just one person, not you. I mean, shouldn't you be the judge on what movies you like? All in all, I give Bubble Boy 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"It has potential, but doesn't pop.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (a couple of SPOILERS in this review)Bubble Boy, could have been a really funny movie.  It had a lot of potential.  However, it runs into two big problems.The first is that the movie is trying to decide between two directions, and it never makes a decision.  The directions would be to go the way of previous adult comedies (American Pie 1 and 2, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Austin Powers 1 and 2) or to NOT go that way.  Bubble Boy tries several times to move into the adult comedy direction (including a joke about an erection), and also tries several times to NOT go in that direction (including a scene where one word is blooped several times).  It never decided which way to go, which leaves the audience wondering which way it wanted to go.The second problem is that many potentially very funny jokes are basically thrown away because the scenes moves too quickly.  I THINK the Cunningham house from Happy Days is shown in one scene, but the shot goes by so quickly I can't really tell.  Another joke has the Bubble Boy stealing a beer (there's actually two jokes in that scene but they go by so quickly you don't have time to laugh) and then taking his very first sip of beer. I think he was supposed to pass out after his first sip but it doesn't even look like he has time to get the sip in his mouth.   If they had slowed it down and waited for the jokes to come through, it would have been much funnier. "},{"Title":"Not offensive, yet not funny either","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  News reports have said of kids being offended by this movie (of course before they've even seen it so basically they were offended by the concept of the film) who actually live they're lives inside bubbles or some type of plastic encasing.  While I suppose a film about offending Bubble Boy's might not be good, this film isn't good either.  Hell, it's not even mediocre in the whole.  It tries to deliver laughs and it just doesn't work because it gets old.  I could almost see this movie as being a punchy drama about a boy and his troubles with his over-christian, way over-protective mother, but unfortunately the cliched cruel mother here is just used as another punchline (and I didn't know saying the pledge of aliegance would make you loose arousal?).Jake Gyllenthall, who made an impressive breakthrough in 1999's October Sky, plays the Bubble Boy Jimmy, who leaves his enclosed room he's been in since birth to stop his would be girlfriend from getting married.  Along the way he runs into the usual Happy on the bus cult freaks, Mexican-American (they have both here) bikers, carnies, and other swell people.  In the end, I think everyone knows what happens so I won't say, but I'll just say this, it wasn't worth the 80 minute wait to find out what is revealed.Garbage, and the only reason this isn't a failure is because of an amusing (but not as funny as it could've and should've been) cameo from Beetlejuice from the Howard Stern.  But even he is only funny when being asked by Stern if he wants to run for Senate.  Worthless film overall.  D- "},{"Title":"This movie was kinda dumb, but lots of the parts were halarious.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie not expecting much. The plot wasn't quite there, the coincidences were unbelievable, but the people and their antics were halarious. I especially liked the bikers and the ice cream guy. The Bright and Shiny people were so gullible, it was incredibly funny, yet a little disturbing. The characters were lovable and well played. I enjoyed this movie, but it wouldn't be one you should go to with high expectations. That would be a mistake. "},{"Title":"Bubble Boy had me laughing...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With all due respect to those who are ill with the Immune Deficiency Disease, I found Bubble Boy to be funny. I don't think the movie pokes fun at the issue at all, but rather sheds light on those who struggle with the disease. By the end of the flick, my heart went out to Jimmy (bubble Boy) and his quest to save his dream girl from a mulletman!I took my little cousin to see it and we were both laughing. Bubble Boy is a silly romantic comedy,and the humor is what our younger generations are used to. Naturally, not everyone is going to find it amusingly appealing, but for those of us who enjoyed flicks like There's Something About Mary, Dumb & Dumber and Road Trip, I definitely recommend seeing Bubble Boy. Jake Gyllenhaal is a talented actor and i'd like to see him take on other roles as well. The rest of the crew was funny too -- Mini Me, Beetlejuice, Fabio. Check it out for yourself. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I've seen in a while","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was extremely surprised at how much this movie made me laugh.  Just about every minority/marginalized group on the face of the earth is lampooned. Jake Gyllenhaal makes a great sheltered innocent with his big, honest eyes, and Swoosie Kurtz is perfect as his overprotective, god-fearing mother. There are so many hysterical little details that it's hard to catch them all.   "},{"Title":"Say What You Will, It Entertains","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have read other reviews for this film.I have seen critics rip it apart.But I have to say that I like this film a great deal.I found that the story was very endering, and while not realistic in the terms of his adventures (and the sturdyness of his bubble), it entertained. I was in a theatre with at least fifty people, and at least four of them didn't stop laughing the entire time the movie played.I thought that it was a very cute movie, with many plot twists and easy-to-miss-if-you-weren't-paying-attention jokes that just made the movie. It has a charm which isn't really for the critics. "},{"Title":"How did this film ever get made?","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In a world dominated by PC we have collectively lost the ability to laugh at ourselves. Years after the Bubble Boy episode on Seinfeld, this film takes the same subject and uses it as a launching pad to go after several other PC untouchable icons. It's not so bad. It's funny and hits the mark more often than it misses.The 1 ratings I see on this site are too numerous to not be motivated in good part by PC rather than an honest review of this film. Too bad. A sense of humor about trying times very often is the only means by which we survive. "}{"Title":"Hilarious movie that surprised me","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy was so much fun.  This movie came out of nowhere and really was a touching hilarious movie.  I didn't know what to think going into the movie but I laughed the whole time.  Jake Gyleenhall did a great job as Jimmy the Bubble Boy.  Marley Shelton played the girl next door really well. The road trip parts were hilarious.  Even mini-me was funny.  This movie was so much better then Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back because it was original, funny, and sweet. "},{"Title":"Straight from the 80's","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, If you like 80's movies then you will like this. You know the days that everything works out in the end.  Well this movie left me feeling happy. It is funny. The clean type of fun. In this movie, you can not question why or how something happened, but just go with the flow.  Sure, half the stuff we know is not realistic, but face it.  It is a movie.  Anything can happen. "},{"Title":"this is a laugh-out-loud film, and how often do you see those?","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just got home from a screening of Bubble Boy. I'm not one of the people who made it; I'm not one of the people who are trying to boycott it. I'm just your average Joe moviegoer. And I didn't expect much out of the movie, figuring it would be okay, with a few chuckles. But my girlfriend & I could not stop laughing. It's wacky & fearless, and you'll actually get some belly laughs out of this one. It's a real sweet film, and anyone who watches it will probably think so. Jake Gyllenhaal is totally endearing, and one of the most likable personas I've seen onscreen since Reese Witherspoon arrived on the scene. Marley Shelton is radiant & sweet & vulnerable. Swoosie Kurtz is a comic genius (of course she is -- what an incredible actress). Danny Trejo is winning & tough as nails. And perhaps most important of all, Blair Hayes has directed a very impressive first feature film -- and it deserves to be a hit. If you're looking for a zany, road-tripping comedy, you'd be smart to check out Bubble Boy. "},{"Title":"Great sophomoric humor","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!  I laughed the whole way through.  The music, even with the words, fit the action.  I also saw it at a screening.  More people laughed than didn't.  I'm also over 40!This movie isn't Oscar(tm) material, but it is good entertainment.  I was there to be entertained, not looking for Gone with the Wind. "},{"Title":"A little rushed, but you get the picture","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bubble Boy reminds me a lot of Big Fish in that it relies heavily on minor characters that get themselves entangled with Bubble Boy's journey to keep the film afloat. The side stories and plot elements are a little rushed, but I would rather have the movie like this than go into detail and become too long. The length of this movie was just right.It's definitely for teenagers, I've noticed adults tend not to appreciate this movie because Bubble Boy's parents are very stereotypical and conservative. But if they weren't, the movie wouldn't make any sense. Some people think Bubble Boy is just a comedy, but if you pay close attention there is tons of symbolism and clever additions that make it all the more worth your viewing time. If you can appreciate this film for what it is, you'll laugh, you'll cry, and have an all around good time.A great movie to watch with friends. "},{"Title":"We laughed all the way through and I wanted to put is straight back on to watch it again.","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd never heard of this film, but my boyfriend insisted that I watched it. I haven't laughed at a film that much in years. At the end I just shouted again! again!.Jimmy is excellent, his mother is excellent and the comedy is excellent. Sometimes the jokes are basic or classic slapstick but you still laugh out loud at them all, and sometimes you just don't see the jokes coming til they hit you.Its genius! Why have I never heard of it before?? This is highly recommended so treat yourself to a good laugh. This will lift your spirits if you are having a bad day, and will make a good day better.  "},{"Title":"Bubble Joy!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I cant understand why this movie didnt do well in america. It isnt known over here well because of unsuccess over in the states, but i found this light hearted comedy brillant, ok its not the greatest movie ive ever seen, nore will it ever be, but it offers laughs and is well acted. The two leads are brillant and funny. If you love comedies then this is for you, if you looking for a clear insite of what its really like to live in a bubble and all drama, then dont bother watching this. The journey begins of a boy born to a over possive mother, he has no immunitys so he lives in a bubble that runs thoughtout his entire house in parmdale, CA, he falls in love with the ' girl next door ' and she runs off to get married and he must stop her, ok not the greatest discription but its defently worth checking out, i only gave this a shot because jake in it and i know he's a good actor, turns out i loved it. i give this 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Funny with a twist","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy is funny with a twist. The style of comedy is different than some other comedies of 2001. But it was very funny. Bubble Boy is great, the plot is original, and the movie seems to have it all. It has comedy, drama, romance, and everything else. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Only Jake Gyllenhaal Could Play This Role","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only Jake Gyllenhaal could play this role and i think this is a good movie i give it a 7.5/10...i would have liked to give it a 8/10 but it just wasn't their but still a good movie. one of those movies that you could see maybe once every 3 weeks to a month "},{"Title":"Not so bad...","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard many terrible things about this movie. It was Sunday, my husband was on a weeklong hiking trip and I was alone. I have to admit it, I laughed beginning to end. Being a child of the 70's I remember the real bubble boy  Todd and this family and I remember the VERY DREADFUL Soap Opera  John Travolta/Glynnis O'Conner flick. Bubble Boy is not necessarrily  poking fun at Todd but is a grilling of that insipid 70's film, especially where Chloe implores Jimmy to kiss her through the bubble. Remember Glynnis telling John to just do it, DO IT.?Jake Gyllenhaal is very funny as Jimmy. Innocent and a lot smarter than the commercials show. Yes confused by the world his mother shows him. (He watchs Land of the Lost over and over again.) Swoosie Kurtz is funny as the ultra religious, over protective mother who bakes cross shaped  and fish-shaped biscuits. (Soy Free, Wheat-Free, Etc).Marley Shelton is fine as the girl next door that Jimmy watches from his window. A supporting cast that does an acceptable job.If you have the time and remember the original Boy in the Plastic Bubble give this movie a break, it's a lot better than it's been given credit for. "}{"Title":"Jake's considerable talent is a major asset","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A throw-away comedy that is hit and miss at best, Bubble Boy gets a terrific performance from Jake Gyllenhaal and leading lady Marley Shelton.Jake plays Jimmy Livingston, who was born with an immune system and without a normal Mother.  As played by Swoozie Kurtz, Mrs. Livingston loves Ronald Reagan, cleanliness and abstinence.  So not only does his Mother literally rule his entire world, (unfortunately not hard to do since he's confined to the house), she tries to keep him further repressed by reciting the Pledge of Allegiance when he's beginning to have normal teenage sexual impulses.  This is further explored when the girl next door, Chloe (Marley Shelton) begins a friendship with Jimmy.  Naturally his Mother dislikes her intensely.Chloe announces she is marrying her insensitive lout of a boyfriend Mark (played by Dave Sheridan, who was 'Doofy' in Scary Movie) and that the wedding is taking place in Niagara Falls (they live in Palmdale, California).  Jimmy is naturally devastated but decides to go to Niagara Falls to stop the wedding.  Up till this point, there were almost no scenes that did not work.  Once Jimmy is on the way, the movie makes some unfortunate choices along the way and maybe half of them do not deliver at all.  Naturally it has a good ending, a very good ending in fact.  Jake is going to be a leading actor someday if he decides to stay in show business.  His eyes are perfectly clear and expressive.  He allows himself to be emotionally available but to his and the movies' credit, his illness is never treated as a joke, but its also never treated seriously either.Marley Shelton annoyed me no end in Sugar & Spice but she's quite good here.  Kurtz is good but her character is so over the top that its probably easy for an actor to just let go and not have to worry about being too larger-than-life. Shining star is Jake, and its always nice to hear The Beach Boys Wouldn't It Be Nice so I will give the movie 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Not Great, But Rather Funny and Entertaining!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"      This wasn't exactly the greatest movie on earth, okay. Yet, it delivered good laughs and entertained the audience rather well. It really did try, but just didn't make it. All, in all, it was really funny, and will entertain the audience. I give Bubble Boy a 7 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"I felt this movie was just a big laugh.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for its humor. I did'nt feel it was mocking anybody with a problem. It was meant to be a screwball comedy. It was'nt mocking Jimmy's problem. The parts that were funny was the adventure and misadventure he got into. And the crazy and interesting people he met along the way. I know it's not easy to live that way, but im sure that they are making the best out of it. I hope that anybody with Jimmy's problem, could see this movie and have a big laugh. The Drama version is The Boy In The Plastic Bubble(1976) starring John Travolta in the lead role. "},{"Title":"finally, a children's movie with truth in it!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  people claim that all this movie does is bash things, but rather i think it makes fun of people who are 100% true to their negatively connotated stereotypes. if you were offended by anything in this movie, you're most likely offended at something in yourself.we need more productions which spare no feelings when making a commentary on the TRUE nature of life on this planet today. i think that was one of this movie's main points it's useless and stupid to try to keep people from reality. the side points are numerous, from the insinuation that women are more likely to go for men with jobs than not, to noting the frequent practice by christians to default every other religion as evil, as well as the idea that people get sick of them doing it.ultimately, if you plan on keeping your child or yourself in a bubble as long as possible, you might as well watch tribulation or some other piece of crap designed to promote resentment of the truth of humankind.remember it wouldn't be a stereotype if it wasn't true. "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, and unworthy of hostile reviews","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last week at the local cheapo second-run theater, needing to be cheered up.  I didn't expect much (most reviews I'd read said it was horrible), but I found myself laughing almost all the way through it.  And then surprisingly moved at the end.  There were a couple of moments that crossed the line (the cow splattering on the Indian ice cream man, for example), but overall the movie was positive and sweet and actually ABOUT SOMETHING.I'm amazed at all the violently hostile reviews and votes of 1 on this site.  Did these people see the same movie?  Did it go over their heads? Were they knee-jerk politically-motivated reactions?  There was nothing in this movie more offensive than your typical Simpsons or Seinfeld episode. Is pointed satire more palatable in the comfort of one's living room?Those who come off badly in the movie are the hypocritical, the bigoted, the narrow-minded.  The most positive portrayals are the different in our society  the freaks, the Indian ice cream man (devoted to his religion), the biker...those who treat Jimmy like a normal person and not a freak.People who call this stupid clearly don't have the IQ level necessary to appreciate it.  People who say it's anti-religion are missing the point the whole story is a religious metaphor, with Jimmy the bubble boy as the clearest Christ-figure in movies since Forrest Gump.  Christ was criticized for associating with publicans and sinners--Jimmy hangs out with bikers and freaks.  There's even a death and resurrection scene.This movie is nowhere near perfect.  There are dead moments, logic problems, and the like.  But it's completely undeserving of most of the hostile criticism it's received.  People who attack this movie are as bad as Jimmy's mom  it's really good-hearted and funny, but they've ignorantly labeled it the whore next door. "},{"Title":"Absolutely pathetic.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  PLEASE DO NOT SEE OR SUPPORT THIS FILM!!!This movie is trite, stupid, and truly offensive. And although I am not easily offended, and appreciate, good, wacky humor, not a single person laughed in the theater at 95% of the attempted jokes in this film. I've rarely seen more racial and ethnic stereotyping in a single piece, and those used here should be taken as serious affronts to all who they've offended.If you're Asian, African American, Indian, or different in any other way, stay away from this drivel. There is absolutely ZERO redeeming value in seeing this piece. And please recommend that no one you know sees it either. Please don't support the message here.Okay, so for great credits, this was written by the same geniuses who wrote the hilarious Dude, Where's My Car?, the masterful Private Parts, and the icon-of-a-film, How to Kill Your Neighbor's Dog. Gentlemen, congratulations - you've succeeded in being unfunny, unintelligent, and offensive all in one go. You owe me $12 and an apology to my Little Brother.Listen, Jake Gyllenhaal; October Sky was brilliant, funny, smart, and uplifting. For this film, though, fire your agent. He's lowered your class and marketability by a great measure.I am really still seething that I was lured to see this movie. I'm all for free speach, but this isn't what that is. Please, please do not see this film. "},{"Title":"Not Too Good","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can see why some people are offended by this film.  But it must be said that the movie doesn't actually exploit the immuno-deficiency disorder itself for laughs.  It TRIES to poke fun at the environment and characters that surround the Bubble Boy.  When it comes right down to it, the most offensive thing about the film is that it's just not very funny.  It's full of dull, generic slapstick gags that fly fast but usually fall flat,despite the considerable energy expended by a more than capable cast.  Gyllenhaal, in particular, looks like he could be Rob Schneider's kid brother, only more innocent and less smarmy.Has its heart in the right place, but really misses the mark. My rating  *1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"So Adorable","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was so cute. I really loved it. I usually don't like to watch movies over and over but this one was just so short and funny the time just sailed past, before I knew it the movie was over and I had laughed my hard off. This movie was not meant to be sincere to people who really suffer from immune disorders. The bubble makes it easier for the mother who wants to have her son stuck in a time warp and that is the funniest part of the movie. He watches the old land of the lost, wears funny clothes, has no idea what ice cream is. He falls in love with the only girl he has ever met and must go across the country in a make shift bubble suit he crafted out of his bubble room. Is there anything funnier than a person in a bubble traveling across the country to confess their love? Didn't think so. "},{"Title":"Quit splitting heirs! This is a fun flick","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Why are all these people here moaning about Bubble Boy being offensive? Do they all live in a convent or what? If you think this is offensive and an assault on good taste, you can't watch anything anymore, lock yourself up and throw away the key. I started watching this film without knowing anything about it and I was pleasantly surprised. Initially, I feared that it would be Disney-flavored sentiment with tons of unnecessary drama and only an occasional laugh. Turns out it's the other way around! Young talent Jake Gyllenhaal is splendid as the poor boy, born without an immune system and suffering from an exaggeratedly worried and Catholic mother. He's due to live in a plastic bubble and has to disinfect everything that comes from the outside world. When the yummy girl next door announces she's soon to be wed at Niagara Falls, he chases her in a portable bubble and encounters all types of society outcasts. He teams up with circus freaks, fights religious sects and gets friendly with Hell's Angels. If you determine that to be offensive, it's your loss. I merely consider it a creative and dared new variant on the recent trend of slapstick road-movies. Bubble Boy is fast-paced, light-headed and not at all pretentious. True, there are sequences that are painfully unfunny but you quickly forget about those when a new and cool gimmick is introduced. Gyllenhaal is good, as mentioned before, but the familiar faces in the supportive cast is even better. Danny Trejo as the rebellious (read romantically hurt) biker and Verne Troyer as the exploitive Dr. Phreak. Bubble Boy features more than enough ingenious findings and spontaneous chuckles to find a place in your memory forever. Lighten up and rent this puppy! "},{"Title":"daft fun","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILERSIn the same year that he starred in Donnie Darko, Jake Gyllenhaal also played the lead in this daft little comedy about a guy who lives his entire life in a bubble and falls in love with his best friend.Jimmy Livingston has spent his entire life in a bubble after he is born without any immunity to disease. With two overprotective parents (Swoosie Kurtz and John Carroll Lynch) Jimmy has never really experienced the real world and never left his room. This all changes however when his best friend and love of his life Chloe (Marley Shelton) decides she is getting married near Niagrara Falls. Creating his own little bubble suit, Jimmy decides to set off across America with the aim of telling Chloe how he feels.A film about a boy who is trapped in a bubble sounds like a really bad idea. With what seems like limited ideas, the story should be a brief twenty minute sketch where he gets bounced all over the place. Amazingly however, Bubble Boy actually works. Lasting 84 minutes, this story is a light hearted comedy which makes the audience smile and at times produces large amounts of laughter.Gyllenhaal in the title role is superb. Proving he can do other roles than the dark and surreal, this actor plays a role which most up and coming stars would reject. Playing it well though, he makes the role his own and he makes us care for Jimmy as we learn more about this caring boy.As far as support casts go, Bubble Boy is also lucky in that everyone pulls their weight admirably. With familiar faces like Verne Troyer (Austin Powers 2 & 3), Danny Trejo (Spy Kids) and Patrick Cranshaw (Old School), the film has a brilliant support cast of comedy professionals. Ultimately it is Swoosie Kurtz who steals the show though as the over protective mother who is scared to let her son grow up.It was never going to be a particularly intelligent film, but Bubble Boy is remarkably funny and very uplifting. With a cast who do their jobs better than perhaps expected, the film always puts a smile on the face and shows just how there is someone out there for everyone. Well worth a watch, especially if you fancy a laugh. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully silly comedy with hidden layers","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On the surface, Bubble Boy is a silly comedy with cartoonish characters, sometimes sophomoric jokes, and slapstick gags. Even just on that level, though, it's near the top of its genre.However, the film also has many deeper levels of meaning and commentary. To what extent is each of us a boy in a bubble, or a freak of some other description? To what extent do we hold ourselves back from living life to the fullest? To what extent do we allow others to hold us back? Can we not live more fully by embracing our own freakishness?Watch this movie, watch the bubble boy explore the world, and think about how you can escape your own bubble. You have nothing to lose but 84 minutes and a couple of bucks for the video rental. You won't regret it!  "},{"Title":"Bubble Boy is light, airy and almost empty inside.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy revels in its lack of political correctness for sure, with its storyline about a young man who's been brought up in a plastic bubble due to his being born with no immunities (and protected by a mother who makes Ned Flanders seem like a Satanist), falling in love with the girl next door (Marley Shelton, a cross between Mena Suvari and Emma Bunton), and venturing into the big wide world when she goes off to marry the wrong guy.But underneath the surface crassness it does want to say something about relationships, about how it doesn't matter what people look like or how they seem - meaning that it mixes tastelessness and sentimentality, but at least the movie doesn't hate its characters. It stereotypes them (such as the Indian ice cream vendor), and it satirises them, but it doesn't hate them, least of all its main character. Crude though it is, its good nature is a plus - alas, the real problem with the movie is that it's so sloppily written that its potential is for the most part left there; you've got a biker gang, you've got a Fabio-led cult (whose members are all called Todd or Lorraine), you've got Stacy Keibler mud-wrestling, you've got a carnival of freaks led by Verne Troyer, you've got a pair of pensionable twins squabbling over a woman, you've got a race to a wedding... but whereas something like Dude, Where's My Car? manages to handle all this without it turning into a mess, everything just winds up going around in circles like a decapitated chicken. Nice as it is to see clips of Land of the Lost on TV (our hero and his beloved both enjoy that show), Bubble Boy is the kind of movie that thinks setting a diner on fire and then dropping Disco Inferno on the soundtrack is clever. Plus, it's almost never funny - and that's the most offensive thing about this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was absolutely terrible","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a 16 yr. old and i thought that this movie was absolutely terrible. My teacher was telling us about the young man who had to live in a bubble because of no immune system and she mentioned the movie that was made about this, she said the parents of this young boy were quite upset about it they thought it was a real insult to their son. I didn't think that someone could make a movie quite so cruel about a person so this weekend I watched it.  I was upmost upset.  I did not think how anybody could make a movie just to criticize someone who is as unfortunate to be born with a life problem such as this.  This moving is just bashing the person who was born with this problem, criticizing them and teasing them about something which they cannot help, of all life problems some one might have to face this one is the biggest and i cannot see who would be as cruel as to make a joke about this. It is no joke.  Even by the title it says that this movie was based on the young man who was born without an immune system and had to live his life in a bubble, if you wanted it to be based on this you still could have done that in a nicer way like maybe a drama movie that explains what life was like for him and the problems he had to face.  In my opinion I think that the producers, makers, and actors of this film should be ashamed this movie was just too cruel to even be explained.  I was very upset with this movie. Krystle Marshall "},{"Title":"WORST Movie Ever","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Horrible best describes this movie....Truly awful.If given the choice of a root canal or seeing this movie again...Root canal will win out every time...The person who green lighted this movie should have been fired on the spot...Movies this bad just should never be made. I was hoping that there would have been some evil twist late in the movie where his bubble breaks and the dirty outside world kills him and the movie just fades t black...Now that would have bumped my rating up!It getting a 5.0 on this sight truly amazes me...i would have though a 2.0 was generous...Awful movies...0 out of 4 stars  "},{"Title":"Bubble Brain.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bubble Boy (2001) Dir Blaire Hayes / Cast Jake Gyllenhaal, Marley Shelton, Swoosie Kurtz, Verne Troyer, Danny Trejo Title regards isolation with Jake Gyllenhaal conformed to a plastic bubble since childhood due to a germ problem. His religious fanatic mother attempts to turn him against the outside world until he is befriended by the girl next door. She is about to wed a jerk so he decides to ventures outside his plastic confines to stop her. Thus begins an odyssey of mad bikers, a moron cult, and a freak show until it climaxes with painfully delivered facts by mother. Director Blaire Hayes loses control early with only the colourful scenery to compliment. Gyllenhaal look uncomfortable in his oversize beach ball and his trek is basically the routine road movie only ten times grosser. Shelton is standard issue as his airhead target who is about to marry an idiot because the screenplay calls for her to be a naïve bimbo. Swoosie Kurtz plays mother without the slightest idea on how to raise a child. Verne Troyer appears as a bullying midget. Danny Trejo appears as someone who should bully the bullying midget. Perhaps this is the best he could get after his famous stint as Mini Me. Extremely gross humour including a scene where a bull carcass is run over repeatedly by oncoming traffic and the blood splattering an observer. That reduces an isolation theme to a puke fest. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Crazy film","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about the quest of a young man, who has to live in a bubble due to the lack of immunity, to stop his love from getting married.I know this film is meant to be entertaining, but I think it is the type of film that is more entertaining when you are high. I mean, the circus of freaks and b**** slapping 6-handed Goddess illustrates this point. Anyway, this film is enjoyable mainly because of the overcontrolling mother. Her performance is excellent and convincing, and the character development of her is the best in the film. It is scary to see her treating her teenage son like a baby, refusing to let go. "},{"Title":"Didn't see it until 2004 and wished I had seen it sooner.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure I wanted to sit through it when the first reviews weren't good but I saw it the other day (over 2 yrs later) and loved it. I had to own the dvd. I will no longer judge anything based on what someone else thinks. It's hilarious and one I can watch over and over. I loved the Pippy & Pappy conversation the best. I can see where you have to have a certain kind of humor or you won't enjoy this. I loved it. I realize now I avoided it when it first came out because of the bad publicity. The jokes touch a lot of different groups of people and there was a lot of talk of boycotts now that I remember, and it seemed to be getting some bad reviews. I wished I had seen it when it first came out. "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The angry reviews of this film drove me to put in my two cents. I tend to be hyper-sensitive to religious/racial/gender-based humor, but didn't find this film to be offensive. The irony conveyed was downright funny.That said... Yes, this film could be easily misunderstood.The subtle humor woven through the blatant over-the-top stereotypes could be easy for some to miss.In my opinion, the cross-cookie-baking mother was the true jewel of this film. The Fabio cameo also made me chuckle.Look past the obvious and into the subtle to find the point to this seemingly pointless comedy. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I found the premise slightly stupid, I thought the film was fun, simple and entertaining. It's nice to see simple films being made with the end result better than expected. P.S. To anyone who hasn't seen it and thinks it will suck, give it a try, it's surprisingly likable. "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I will admit upfront that if you want a movie with substance that will make you think, don't expect too much of Bubble Boy. However, if you want to see an entertaining, funny, lighthearted kind of film, then by all means, watch this. I really enjoyed it, even more so because Jake Gyllenhaal, who I happen to like, was in it. The key is to just enjoy the movie rather than try to find any true meaning in it. "}{"Title":"One of the great dumb comedies of your time","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A previous reviewer found this film unfunny and offensive to religions.  IMO, that is one of the biggest reaches I've ever seen for an excuse to hate a film that is totally innocuous.  The major religious element in the film is a cult of people who all go by the names of Lorraine or Todd, depending on their sex.  The Jewish comments are parodies of conservative Christians who hold such stereotypes, not a slam on the religion itself, and the Hindu character is treated in a decent manner respectful of the beliefs, even if the official position of the film is that they don't get it.  This film is a classic naive fish-out-of-water film, and if you view it through that lens, how can you be offended by the religious elements unless you are really out looking to be offended by it? When you get down to it, this film is a diversion, and a fabulously entertaining one at that.  Every time I watch this film, I am amazed at the warmth of it (the Bubble Boy himself seems mildly retarded, but he's treated with love, rather than as a figure of ridicule).  The coalfire-and-brimstone mother (Kurtz) falling for the jackbooted Dr. Phreak (Troyer) is classic.  The biker with a heart of gold is a fantastic character (Trejo).  And Mandy Moore really shines as the leader of the cult pack back to capture their chosen one, whom they had previously turned away.Not perfect, but a ton of fun.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Wacky comedy that is a laugh fest","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A friend made me watch this film and I was really impressed on how all around funny it was. It wasn't one of those degrading teen comedies so prevalent these days.........it was done with just honest good humor and an irreverent approach. The cast and direction was top notch and what was even more surprising was that the writers and director are new!!!!!!!!It reminded me of RAISING ARIZONA............. a real comedy gem. "},{"Title":"Completely Underrated","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I believe that at some point in everyone's life, they will find a movie that looks bad and turns out to be very good. It will then become their mission to expose the world to this underrated (or not at all rated) film. For me, this film is Bubble Boy. The trailers made it look like a stupid slapstick comedy for those with single digit I.Q.'s. In actuality, it is a funny, poignant allegorical story about stereotypes. Jimmy the Bubble Boy is untainted by the world and therefore sees everyone as equals. Meanwhile, all around him, people's prejudices and religious zealousness drive them to be horrible to one another. This allegory has a fairy tale ending that leaves me with the warm fuzzies. I have met people who have seen this movie and not liked it, but I believe that they must have missed something because Bubble Boy is as lovable as its' title character.   "},{"Title":"The title is the funniest thing about this movie","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What happens when you mix Tim Burton with the Farely Bros with a heaping helping of sheer shrieking insanely bigoted contempt for devoutly religious people?You get Bubble Boy. If you are on the ball (no pun intended) and pay attention to how they set up the the character of the mother (Republican and religious which in the world of Hollywood also makes her racist, sexually repressed, mean, judgmental, over protective and just a general pain in the arse) you will start to suspect there will be a surprise ending concerning bubble boy. And due to the myopic, smug world view radiating off the filmmakers you will find you were right on the money. It took me 15 minutes into the movie in order to figure out that there would be a surprise ending. Maybe you can figure it out sooner, I'm sometimes slow on the uptake.Now, all the above wouldn't matter if the movie was funny, but it's not. Besides a few and far between chuckles this movie left me stone faced.Don't get me wrong I'm sure that having a dying cow being run over by a truck and splattered in half in front of a well meaning Hindu (which holds Cows sacred) and then run over again and again by other vehicles could be funny (even to people that aren't anti religious bigots). However, it would have to be done by a film maker who was keenly aware of the taboo he was crossing instead of being gleefully obsessed with sticking it to the devout.It all but overshadows the sweetness and inclusiveness of the main character (Jimmy in the bubble). But that's how messed up this movie is.Jimmy is a sweet soul, seeing the best in everybody in the middle of a movie made by people who smugly disparage those in the film that think differently then they do and think it's funny. "},{"Title":"mmmm bubbly","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i went into this movie not expecting much (seeing the low rating and poor reviews...) but ended up really enjoying it.  there were many funny parts and never a dull moment.  although, i must admit, many parts were quite silly, but that's the point.  This movie isn't some deep philosophy masterpiece, it's BUBBLE BOY, a comedy with a generic storyline (boy doesn't tell girl how he feels, girl is about to marry another man, boy goes to stop the wedding).  This was a feel good movie, with a nice happy ending.  i can't believe jake gyllenhaal would take on such a role, but he did... and it turned out alright.  i recommend this to people who just want an entertaining movie... don't go into this expecting too much, and you won't be disappointed.   "},{"Title":"Sweet and Funny","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No, the movie isn't realistic in anyway, but I still think it is very sweet. Follows the bubble boy as he goes on a quest for his first love and meets lots of interesting people in the search.  There were a lot of gags in this movie, some were insulting, but never in a racist way.  Just a fun movie for one of those nights where you just had a stressful work at week and just want to watch something mindless.  If you think this is anything more than fun, than you are taking things way too seriously. "},{"Title":"If you rate this at less than a 7, you must not have been paying attention!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While it is understandable that some people may be put off by the very mild jabs at straight laced and/or staunchly republican types, please just roll with it. But that is not what makes this movie among the most enjoyable from beginning to end that have been released in the last few years. The bubble boy is truly innocent and wide eyed, with his search for freedom one solid laugh after another. The freedom he seeks is as much from the plastic bubble in which he lives as it is from the way his mother bubbles wraps him away from the real world. The entire cast is well assembled, and the adventure is one of the most enjoyable around. This is an widely undiscovered gem. "},{"Title":"A charming little film","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of course, I wasn't expecting much, because of its poor reviews and horrible box office records, and I enjoyed it.  Jake Gyllenhaal never seems too comfortable with his role (he seems more comfortable with meaty, dramatic roles like in Moonlight Mile or Donnie Darko), but his less-than-satisfactory performance didn't completely spoil it for me.The idea is original.  I can't say I've ever seen a comedy about a boy in a plastic bubble on a quest to find the girl he loves, and the movie plays with that idea very well, never descending into one-joke territory.The cast is filled with talented actors.  I especially liked Danny Trejo as the psychotic biker who lends the bubble boy a helping hand.  People probably recognize Trejo from most of Robert Rodriguez's work, and he often gets typecast as the macho guy who's there to beat the crap out of people and doesn't say much.  He's a fine actor, and I appreciate seeing him in roles like this, and hope to see him in more roles like this in the future.As far as the story goes, don't expect anything beyond predictable.  But the film has charm and that's what makes it work.  It's harmless, likeable film with some good laughs to spare.  It really left me with a good feeling.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A Funny Surprise...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually do not leave comments, nor have I voted in a while...but having not read the comments or researching a movie before I watch it (which I usually do) I probably would have passed on this one, but as I have been watching Jake Gyllenhaal's (October Sky) career I gave it a viewing. As of this Posting the Rating was 4.8 and personally I would give it a much better score. This movie apparently has been taken out of context... Yes it is totally Un-PC, certainly that was my first comment at the end of the movie, yes it is funny and not because of the politically incorrect characters but the ensemble cast and the situation comedy...No great plot here and no Oscar nods ...and it wasn't meant to be and a first time out director who did in my opinion an excellent job... It is a mindless movie and enjoyable, better than Road Race by far and has all the makings of a Cult Classic... But if you are sensitive to Political Incorrectness perhaps this movie isn't for you... But if you want a goofy good time give it a chance... After all its just a movie.... I gave it a 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"500 DOLLA!!! 500 DOLLA!!!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" it's a shame when a movie gets hammered for been political incorrect as this one has but people have their right to voice their own opinion and thats whats right in a free world that aside we should look at the big picture and decide can we laugh at ourselves of be just a pain in everyone's ass. This movie is cool and does not for me degrade the suffers of this awful condition, in fact anyone who is suffering from this condition would love to go on the same adventure as portrayed in the film and end up with a cool chick like clohe. Hells angels sideshow freaks and a crazy cult all add up to one crazy movie and the mud wrestling 500 dolla!!! 500 dolla! 500!!! dolla don't ask i'll tell you later, realale  "}{"Title":"Painful and torturous!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever turned on a movie and got sucked into watching it for some odd reason?  That happened to me with this film and all I kept thinking was Please end faster!  I don't know if I was too lazy to flip the channel or what, but somehow this movie got worse and worse as the film progressed. Jake Gyllenhaal needs to choose better film projects!  As for the rest of the cast, it's pretty much par for the course for them, they really haven't been in any stellar film roles in the past decade or so.  Do yourself a favor, if you ever catch yourself watching this atrocity, turn it off! "},{"Title":"Truly Underrated","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is truly under appreciated. It manages to be hysterically funny in parts and yet maintains the innocence of someone who's never been out in the world. This is most definately worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I'll be straight on this one. For some reason I loved it.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is really strange. Maybe it was my mood but this was really good in a sort of a bad way. I found it really amusing. I am not a fan of feel-good films, but this one was great. To put it short if you want to be happy and feel good, don't go for such pathetic stuff as Forest Gump, go for this one... "},{"Title":"Cute but morbid.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Touching if morbid little tale about a young man who lives in a bubble, who travels cross country to stop the wedding of the girl he loves. The story is surprisingly touching for the tale it tells, and the performances surprisingly good.  Don't let the title fool you, it's worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Truly a tour de force picture","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I felt the need to write this review when I saw some of the reviews it was given here. Some people said they went in looking for a feel-good type comedy and they said that they were very disappointed and offended by it. It was said that it offended just about every group that could be offended. THAT'S what made it so funny! It was a great satire making fun of just about everyone who thinks they have an answer. Not only that, but it was a delightful romp of a young boy who has been couped up in his room his whole life and finally gets to see the world for the first time. I originally had no interest in seeing this movie at all because I thought it looked silly and juvenile. However, after listening to the Audio Commentary on Donnie Darko, I fell in love with Jake Gyllenhaal, so I decided to give it a shot. It was nothing like I originally expected, and Jake Gyllenhaal was excellent in the lead role. Swoosie Kurtz was also very good as the over-protective mother. However, I felt the best performance was given by Zach Galifianakis as the man at the Bus Stop. He was simply hilarious even though his expression never changed while delivering his lines. Don't listen to the nay-sayers of this movie and give it a shot. It's definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"what's up?","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be very much in the vein of Pee-Wee's Big Adventure or Edward Scissor-hands. I can see how it would not appeal to a lot of people, but just note that the performances are good and the story is cute. I really don't understand what all the fuss is about. It's only a movie and I for one thought it was rather fun. It was surely better than Shallow Hal! That's mho.  "},{"Title":"Underrated movie","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I resisted seeing this for the longest time thinking it was one of the worst ideas ever for a film. But after catching it on a movie channel one day, I'm hooked. It pokes fun at all the stereotypes, and you just have to appreciate the way they make their message. It's one of the funniest movies of the year and one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Fun and funnier","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy is a funny story about a boy, Jimmy, that is born without any immunity system. He can't live in an ordinary world. His parents build a big bubble that he lives in the 18 first years in his life. Outside he's called the Bubble BoyNext door lives a pretty girl, Chloe. She and Jimmy fall in love and become a couple. When Chloe meets another guy, Mark, Bubble Boy is crushed. When she tell him that they are going to get married in 3 days and leave a note that she still loves him, Jimmy escapes in a bubble that he made himself.Now the wild hunting starts... Bubble boy is chasing Chloe, his parents are chasing him and somewhere in between there's a couple of freaks, a dwarf, some hippies and a MC gang involved =)It may sound strange, but it's a really funny movie, so take a look at it! "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure maybe it wasn't the brightest movie, but can't there be movies that you can just laugh at? I saw the movie for the first time a week ago. I've watched it again since. I thought it was very funny and at some parts I couldn't stop laughing. Plus at the end when he opens his bubble at the wedding...I thought that was so sweet. I enjoyed the movie and oh yes I will watch it again.  "},{"Title":"can't burst this bubble","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is a good film for people who actually appreciate silly comedy on any level. o.k. the idea is a silly one but hey who cares, the film raises some smiles as a result of the amusing incidents which arise on his travels. the film meets it's primary goal of being relatively funny. The acting is of a reasonable level as jake gyllenhaal plays the lovable innocent niave jimmy and swoozy kurtz does well in playing the bitch mom from hell. not a class 10/10 film but it's interesting and definently funny. 7/10   "}{"Title":"A little over the top...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... but okay! I saw this movie after my best friend told me to and I have to say my friend has NO taste in movies! I rented it only by chance because the movie I really wanted wasn't there. When I put it in my computer I was ready to be embarrassed that I ever rented it but I wasn't! It was really pretty good and when I saw the reviews it got I had to back it up. The trailer made it look more like a kiddy-movie but it wasn't, I realized that when they said The little whore next door. You should see this movie with the intentions of seeing a goofy over the top teen comedy not this year's Oscar winner! "},{"Title":"Unconventional but Brilliant!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In a world of mundane comedies which use gross out humour and teen movie parodies to attract an audience, Bubble Boy was unconventional but brilliant! Now it took me a while to see this movie because, quite frankly, I thought it would be awful, however I found the concept and the cast histerical. The trick with Bubble Boy is...you have to just give in to it, it's a movie about a gut in a plastic bubble suit for god sakes, please so don't try to analyze it. Blair Hayes creates an almost cartoon-like world for Jimmy Livingston (the Bubble Boy) and the whole movie retains this cartoon feel, right to the end. The cast, including the remarkable Jake Gyllenhall (October Sky, Donnie Darko) and Swoozie Kurtz are hysterical with Jake turning a would be ridiculous role into a refreshing and laugh out loud character. The cast is great, the concept is original and the movie, if you let it is fantastic. Rent it, I dare you, you won't regret it, unless you'd rather wait for American Pie 3.  "},{"Title":"Despite it's innocent demeanor, it's a lousy film","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After searching through the video store last night for about a half an hour, trying to find something I hadn't seen yet that looked half way decent, I came across Bubble Boy and decided to take my chances with it. While I wasn't exactly expecting much, Bubble Boy was still a very lame movie. I think I only uttered a laugh twice--Once at the dream sequence involving Land of the Lost and when the sacred cow got run over and his head and butt were on seperate sides of the road, with a stream of blood and guts between them--But other than that, all the failed attempts at humor just fell flat. However, I can't say that I hate this movie, because really, it's heart is in the right place and it doesn't do anything BAD for our society, it's just not funny. Rent it if you want to see it, but I do not recommend purchasing it. "},{"Title":"why don't people like this movie!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never heard of the movie before I rented it but I thought it was great and I don't understand all the negative criticism, sure the other comedies that some people say sucked this year did suck, but this one is pure entertainment and I didn't stop laughing, so go watch it and have a li'l fun! "},{"Title":"Lighten up -- this movie is hilarious!!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  True, when my husband and I first saw it, we were shocked. The main problem was the cruel jabs at EVERY MAJOR RELIGION. Upon second look, the jokes are meant to point out the hypocrisy, not attack genuine beliefs, and the situations/plot turns are reminiscent of the old Cary Grant slapstick films. VERY FUNNY MOVIE, and Aussie needs to lighten up and take a second look, I think... "},{"Title":"If you hate this movie, you have no soul.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was amazing.  I thought it would be the worst piece of  garbage i had ever seen but it blew me away. This movie had more heart than anything that came out that year.  Acting was very well done, and very well cast with maybe the exception of Mini Me but he still worked.  If you were offended than you weren't paying attention and if you didn't laugh than you just don't get it.  Why don't people know how to market movies? I remember the commercials for this, they tried they just failed horribly. "},{"Title":"Should have been a Farrelly brothers movie.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what are the critics problem. Sure this movie had some gross out gags, but There's Something About Mary, Me Myself and Irene, Scary Movie 1 and 2, and let's not forget Freddy got Fingered had more gross gags then this movie did. This movie was entertaining, Jake Gyllenhaal who gave a good creepy performance in Donnie Darko, gives a funny performance has Jimmy Livingston, a young man who was born without any immunties, and is forced to live his life in a plastic bubble, under the close watch of his over protective mother(Swoosie Kurtz). But Jimmy's simply world takes a u-turn, when he meets Chloe(played by the lovely Marley Shelton). And through the years there the best of friends. But Jimmy learns the Chloe is getting married, and she goes to Niagara Falls. With the wedding only days away, Jimmy must build himself bubble suit, and try to stop her from marrying Mr. Wrong and win her love. On the way he encounters some adventure and of course some misadventure along the way. Someone tried to mimic a Farrelly brothers style, and did a good job. The cast of characters shine in this screwball comedy. A goofy version of The Boy In The Plastic Bubble. "},{"Title":"Fun for those who laugh at the politically incorrect!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that the movie was great.  My friends and I all live for it! cults, midgets, bikers, freaks, and even more! wahoo! It was absolutely hilarious! at least by my standards.  If you enjoy off the wall-politically incorrect movies, this is for you!  Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"John Travolta would be proud","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Remember that kid in City Slickers who's should was double jointed, who would have thought he's have an acting career ahead of him. Anyway, what a great movie. Didn't do to good at the box office, but like a lot of great movies, they don't become great until many years later. A non stop joy ride with laughs and a heart filled ending. No holds bar on this flick, most of the Howard Stern bunch is in this movie except for Howard Stern. The Bubble Boy even look like a young John Travolta that keeps making you think back to the first Bubble Boy movie. This flick is a sure winner and if you don't mind having your kids hear some dirty language, its a pretty good family movie if you believe that. Check it out! "},{"Title":"I wish I was a Bubble Boy... )","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me a lot.  I was expecting it to be good, but it was great.  I love the idea of a bubble boy making a cross-country trek to save the girl he loves from marrying one very cool guy. This movie is great, and very original, and if you like to laugh, and you have an actual sense of humor, you will love this movie too. Go see it. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is now in my top 10 all time favorite movies.  It had a hidden story about acknowledgment, understanding, and compassion that was touching. I loved this movie and bought the DVD to watch over and over again.  Good job and thanks for making this film. "},{"Title":"An unfairly neglected gem!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Bubble Boy' came and went, and frankly from the premise, cast, ad's etc I thought that this was probably justified. However, friends kept telling me I should give it a chance, so I got it out on video...and it is a great smart little movie! The humour is broad, but never less than smart and pithy. All the principals are excellent, especially Jake Gyllenhaal in the title role, and Swoozie Kurtz as his mother - who delivers some excellent one-liners. The writing is sharp, never descending to cliche. However, it is a hard movie to pidgeonhole - probably why it slipped through the cracks. Don't let the terrible title and it's lack of 'success' fool you...'Bubble Boy' is destined to become a cult classic! "},{"Title":"surprisingly amazing!!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i had no interest in seeing this movie (admit it, it looked baaad), but one long, boring night, i decided to try it out.  and i was completely hooked!!! it was probably jake gyllenhaal's incredibly sweet and innocent face, or maybe his high-pitched, adorable voice, or just the goofy haircut he sported that did it for me. it could have been the great job swoosie kurtz did as the religious, overbearing mother (and she was hilarious, trust me).but most likely, it was how, regardless of how the plot seemed on paper or in previews, it all worked out to be, hands down, one of the best movies i have ever seen.  the characters were incredibly well planned out (and they all pulled it off without a hitch) and the storyline was seamless.even though some of the situations were a little mindless and overdone, like the niagara falls scene and the whole cult thing (can you say zoltan from dude, wheres my car?), it was well worth it. if youre just looking for something light and delightfully embarrassing(if you watch it by yourself you wone be so ashamed to laugh) to watch, with no sex or swearing(which was sooooo nice for a change), definitely watch it (or be like me and watch it over and over again)... if not for the actual story, then just for jake gyllenhaal.  even if i hadnt liked the movie, i still would have adored him. my rating?  an absolute 10+/10  )  "},{"Title":"Funny, Irreverent, an Equal Opportunity Offender.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So, this movie is not an all time classic, like Citizen Kane or Mommy Dearest, it is still very funny and worth a watch.The Plot line is simple.  Bubble Boy goes on a cross country trek to keep the girl he loves from marrying another guy.The humor is all in the details.  I never knew that curry was funny before. You'll never think of the Pledge of Allegiance in the same way, thanks to Swoozie Kurtz as Mom.Well acted, well directed. "},{"Title":"Most underrated movie of 2001","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was one of the few people who actually saw this one in the theaters.  Just saw it again on DVD, and I have to say it was even funnier the second time around.  Yes, there are some lowest common denominator jokes, and a couple of unfunny gross-out moments, but believe it or not, this is actually a great movie, with some real emotional resonance, thanks in a big part to Jake Gyllenhaal. The DVD has some cool extras.  There was a great documentary on how they made the bubble suit.  For extra fun, check out the Director's Diary. It's filled with Guffman-style laughs as the full-of-himself and surprisingly humorless director describes his craft. Check this movie out--it's better than you think. ***1/2  "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says, I think this movie was excellent!! My love for the acting of Jake Gyllenhaal probably has a lot to do with it, but even if he didn't play the part, i would still think it is a very cleverly made film. It made me laugh and cry. It was full of hilarious jokes and smart-ass humor, which is right up my alley. I absolutely loved this movie, and will definitely be buying it the day it comes out on video. I praise the film makers and cast, Thanks for making such a great film! I think Jake Gyllenhaal was perfect for this role, and is the next big REAL actor! "},{"Title":"A Destined Cult Classic...and you heard it here first.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I scratched my head in earnest trying to make sense of my extreme experiences throughout this unbelievable film.(Unbelievable that it is made at all.)I squirmed, I jeered, I laughed-out-loud, and I cheered?With its exponential dust bombing of our senses(and sensibilities) with bad movie clichés and political incorrectness, it is without surprise why many in the audience surrendered their rational faculties, and literally switched off.Personally, I too was tempted many times to be swayed by this wave of negativity. But then, I endured, spurred on only by a lingering suspicion. That a film this 'BAD', could not have been this 'BAD', unintentionally...or could it?Two schools of thoughtsi) This might have been a self-referential attempt to lampoon trashy Hollywood flicks, but armed with an almost encyclopaedic efficiency in turning off the very people it sought to share the joke with. Such courage, don't you think?ii) Then again, it might just have been TRASH after all. Trash, that deservedly implode upon itself for the public chastising that followed. (Read the comments posted here in IMDB and you'll know what I mean)I do not want to hazard a guess as I relish this ambiguity. One thing is for sure though, I won't able to shake this film off my mind for quite some time. (Hmm, isn't this the mark of an exceptional film then? Or could it be that I just have a higher tolerance for masochistic crap? I don't know...)While I persist to exist in this vacuum of self denial, I cannot deny that 'Bubble Boy' marks a milestone in extreme film making. This film is so BAD, it transcended itself onto a surreal realm all its own.To laud or criticise its merits(or lack thereof) will thus be an exercise in futility. But to see it ascend to 'Cult Classic' status, may be in order. One need look no further for fertile debates on film tastes and appreciation than in 'Bubble Boy'.And you heard it here first. "},{"Title":"This movie was hilarious","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy is honestly the best comedy, maybe even movie of 2001. It was hysterical. This will be a movie like Billy Maddison, no one remembers it in theatres, but everyone will own it when it is released to video, or it is on HBO. "},{"Title":"Best Hollywood film I've seen this year!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Movies this year have been awful and I had almost given up on any of them being either good or fun.  Then I saw Bubble Boy.  This movie is so much fun.  It's so charming and cute and just a good time.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Movie for people with hearts","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are a hardcore movie fan, who believes that a movie is not good unless it has great cinematography or is revolutionary, then this movie is not for you. If you are looking for a movie to fill your heart with joy and just flat out makes you feel good, such as October Sky or Rushmore (although both superior flicks), then this movie is for you.  Most people at this site do not go to movies to enjoy themselves, they go for the art, as I can tell by the 3.9 rating this movie received. But truly, I recommend this to anyone who wants to spend an hour and a half in a movie theater and laugh and to come out of it feeling good. This story of a boy in a bubble exploring the world for the first time in an attempt to reach his love before she marries the wrong man is the first truly endearing movie I have seen this year and everyone should see it. Even just for Jake Gyllenhaal's performance, who in my mind is one of the best young actors around with his performances in this and October Sky. I personally thought this movie was fantastic, and you would to, if you can just look at its heart. "}{"Title":"Lighten up...it's really funny.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why has our society deteriorated to a point where we NEED to find a reason to be angry at SOMETHING so we choose a MOVIE (a generally ridiculous and light hearted movie at that) and decide to take out on it our FRUSTRATIONS WITH OUR OWN LIVES.  This movie isn't out to make fun of the hero's condition!  The whole point of the movie is that he IS NORMAL LIKE EVERYONE ELSE!This movie is fast-paced, well written and very funny.  There is no nudity, no four letter words, no blood (except for a cow), no drugs, and the hero drinks a single drop of beer (the only one anyone drinks on screen).  It's a shame people will shy away from it because of the controversy.Oh well, it will be HUGE on video...  "},{"Title":"A divine comedy SEE IT!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen some good movies in my time.  Great funny movies are hard to find.  But here it is.  Bubble Boy.  Maybe the best comedy I have seen in years, this movie is a definite must see movie on every bodies list. "},{"Title":"a movie to offend everyone","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bubble Boy is a movie to offend everyone in the tradition of The Loved One.  It is for those over 11; youngsters will not understand most of the wide variety of humor.  Basically, this off-the-wall, over-the-top road movie should be seen when you're in the mood for something silly.  Swoozie Kurtz is hilarious as the mother who is a cross between June Cleaver and Piper Laurie (as the mother of Carrie); she also has a few secrets.  "},{"Title":"How is it possible to make a comedy so unfunny?","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Where do they come up with this crap?  How is it possible for a major studio to spend millions of dollars on such an incredibly rotten premise?  This is one of the worst movies of all time, it was so boring, stupid, crass, and moronic, I don't even know where to start bursting it's bubble.  Pretty lame pun, eh?  Well, guess what?  It is a lot funnier than anything in this entire movie!!I don't know what is wrong with Hollywood these days.  Just look at the trash they are putting out Tomcats...LAME!  Freddy Got Fingered...INCREDIBLY LAME!  Bubble Boy...COMPLETELY and UTTERLY LAME!That's it!  I am never getting suckered into renting another Hollywood comedy, it is going to have to be boring art-house nothing-ever-happens foreign flicks from now on because Bubble Boy is proof-positive that Hollywood has no idea how to make a movie any longer.  Whoever made the decision to turn that God-awful script into a movie needs to change careers. "},{"Title":"expected a 1 got a 10 but I am to old to give it a 10 so 8","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I need some stinkin' Patches and after getting hit by the bus and being told he was in a loading zone, LOL both stolen lines from other movies but I got a laugh and the ending all to assumed was still cute. The line about how do you dump in that suit and a little life of Brian take off all brought back fond memories of fun movies. "},{"Title":"Funny as all hell","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be the funniest movie i have ever seen besides having one of the best one-liners at the end.  I think this movie was underappreciated and more people should see more of its comedic aspects and it is to my belief that it would be enjoyed by more people. "},{"Title":"BuBbLe Boy Kept Me RoLLiNg!!!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alright, I have to right away say that Jake Gyllenhaal is ADORABLE!!! this movie was just as adorable as him.. its cute and sweet, and totally shows the innocence and good will of this young boy... It might not be very deep, but it is MY type of humor, and I was on the floor.. I saw it because my friend suggested it.. at first I scoffed, but its one of my favorite movies! GO JAKE!! (ya'll go watch October Sky if drama is more your style =) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have read many reviews of Bubble Boy and been remarkably surprised by them.  I actually enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anybody who needs an escape from the formulated, cookie-cutter and corporatized comedies being fed to the movie going world.To begin with, this movie cannot be taken seriously, and in fact, doesn't take itself seriously.  If you are going into it looking for any analysis or deep profound meaning, watch something else.  While this movie does satirize a little, though a bit tamely, it's just a good old-fashioned slapstick situational comedy.I am reminded, though vaguely, of Monty Python and Animal House, and/or Saturday Night Live (when it was still funny).  Particularly funny was Jimmy's costume as a goldfish, an example of the wickedly implicit humor found in the whole film!Just sit back, have a couple of beers, let your brain rest and enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"A ridiculous comedy about a boy who live on a bubble!!!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  THERE'S good bad-taste comedy and there's comedy that really does leave you feeling like you've swallowed something rancid. Generally, Bubble Boy - the premise is the hilarity of immunodeficiency - is the latter. Fitfully funny at best, it's a sophomoric, facetious road comedy that draws liberally on Steve Martin's The Jerk, among other, mostly better, movies.Jimmy (Jake Gyllenhaal from October Sky) has lived his whole life in a plastic bubble, and his hyperprotective mother (Swoosie Kurtz) has done her best to insulate him from everything she dislikes about modern life.As a result, at 17, Jimmy is completely ignorant about sex, money and popular culture - though he does have an electric guitar.Then he gets a visit from Chloe (Marley Shelton), the hot blond girl next door. The two of them bond, despite Jimmy's mother. But he realizes he's in love with her only after Chloe tells him she's going to marry her idiotic but healthy boyfriend, Mark (Dave Sheridan), at Niagara Falls. Jimmy assembles a mobile bubble suit that will allow him to leave the house for the first time and go cross country to stop Chloe's wedding.On the way to New York, he encounters a creepy cult, a fierce-looking but friendly biker (Danny Trejo) and some circus freaks owned by a nasty dwarf (Verne Troyer from Austin Powers 2). There's a hackneyed feel in the venomous way the film (directed by first-timer Blair Hayes, from a script by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio) depicts religious belief. While this critic generally likes it when comedies trample on p.c. pieties, Bubble Boy crosses way over the line with a dumb joke making ignorant fun of Hinduism and its notion of sacred cows. Don't live in regret.  "},{"Title":"Why wasn't this bubble popped?","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I won two tickets to see this movie at a preview screening last night. After watching this film, I have to say that I have never before felt like jumping out of my seat and running to the exits screaming FIRE! within the first twenty minutes of a movie.Who thought that with all the terrible comedies that have been released this year (ie. SAY IT ISN'T SO, TOMCATS, ONE NIGHT AT MCCOOL'S, FREDDY GOT FINGERED, AMERICA'S SWEETHEARTS), you could go any lower. This movie was truly awful.The premise is this - a young boy, born with a condition that leaves him immune to just about everything that exists, grows up living a rather normal life as one would expect. When his sweetheart decides to get married to the wrong guy, it's up to him to make a road trip across America to Niagara Falls to stop the wedding. In doing so, he makes a 'bubble' suit to travel in so he can survive in the outside world. Amongst his travels, he gets himself into crazy and ludicrous situations, meets and befriends off-the-wall people and learns about life, all the while his parents are trying their hardest to catch up with him.This may sound mildly amusing at this point. I thought I suffered 90 minutes of excruciating pain while watching this movie.There are only two really 'known' people in this film. Swoozie Kurtz (of Sisters fame) and Jack Gyllenhaal who made his debut in the wonderful coming-of-age film, OCTOBER SKY. I thought this guy would go on to do greater things, but instead, he takes ten steps back by starring in this rubbish.About two thirds of the theater had been filled, and between all of us, there were about two laughs and they definitely sounded FORCED to me. When the audience dispersed, several patrons were shaking their heads in disbelief.I don't know what the film studio was thinking when they green-lighted this turkey.I have seen my share of bad films, but this one takes the cake. Watching this film felt like I was being punished for all my past sins.0/10 "}{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could not even finish this movie. I watched it on t.v. and I could not believe somebody thought that this piece of junk could make money. The acting was bad, the plot was predictable, and the characters were stupid. If you are over 10 years old do not see this movie. I wont bore you with the plot outlines cause there isn't one. I think the film makers were improvising the entire shoot. The only way I can recommend this movie is if one of your friends lost a bet, then you should make him watch this movie. I can defend some dumb movies of being entertaining but this movie is just flat out annoying. If you want to waste 90 minutes, just play Nintendo instead. I feel bad for anybody that paid money to see this.  "},{"Title":"just another fallinlove movie","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  just what the world needs, another movie about strange love. The weird, strange and the looser end up with the girl looking like a model. Thats the kind of movies which Hollywood have made a million off, and this is no exceptions. I would appreciate movies which is more real. The most realistic love movie i saw is lost in translation. This elephant with umbrella on a small bicycle happy movies is a mock to any normal people, a big underestimating of peoples iq. This movie is for giggling teen aged girls. It is about a boy who grows up in this bubble because of he have no protection against viruses. And then he falls in love with this girl next door, what a big surprise...not. And just like typical Hollywood movies they falls in love, and there is problems..but as all sugar sweet cocktails served from Hollywood they end up together at the end. The only surprise about this movie, is that is more lousy than the low standard off the same kind. I would rather see a 6 hours black and white documentary program about polish agriculture after 1945. "},{"Title":"Underrated and worth a rental","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Most of the people who will tell you this film is a piece of garbage either haven't seen it or are unwilling to submit to someone's imagination. This is not to say that the film is an overlooked masterpiece -- it is too hampered in places by conventional storytelling to soar into the stratosphere of truly great demented comedies like the Monty Python movies or a John Waters film. But, like those films, it has a boldness to be truly sick, un-PC, and go for a good, hard, low-brow laugh when it's called for. Its main assets are its actors the gifted Jake Gyllenhaal, whose exemplary performance in DONNIE DARKO convinced me I should give this movie a chance, the appealing Marley Shelton, and many many great character actors including Swoosie Kurtz, Danny Trejo (a Robert Rodriguez regular), and John Carroll Lynch (he was Norm, Marge's husband, in FARGO). "},{"Title":"In the style of The Simpsons Comic Book Guy...","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...WORST MOVIE EVER! I've seen a lot of bad movies, but this takes the cake. It's unbelievably bad! I saw this last night and immediately went to get wasted afterwards in an attempt to forget the trauma I endured...my attempt failed. I still get flashbacks to this horrible, horrible film. Do not see this movie unless you are a masochist with a lot of free time.  "},{"Title":"I'm 20, but I HATED IT!!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, you heard right.  I did not like the movie, even though I am 20 years old.  I guess I'm the more cerebral type.  This film is just plain bad, it makes outrageous and insulting stereotypes.  Plus, I'm one of the groups of people who were actually insulted by this crap.  I am part Asian, after all.While the film did manage to hit below the belt to those who are disabled by the condition that the protagonist was going through, the film's real point wasn't about his condition, although it did manage to poke fun at it numerous times.  The film was about this person crippled with an immune deficiency making a road trip in an attempt to save the girl he loves from a total jerk.  If you still want that story, watch The Wedding Singer.  It doesn't have the road trip or the disease, but it does have the same basic objective in the plot without having to resort to stereotypes of that extreme every single frickin second.  The protagonist is going to save the damsel he realises that he loves from the antagonist by stopping their marriage.  Not only is it essentially the same in basic objective, but it's a far better movie, and actually hilarious in comparison to the obscene flop known as Bubble boy.I say that Bunea Vista's bubble should've been popped well before this waste was produced.  In this case, when they had heard the kind of outcry this film had received, it was too late.  They had already spent the money making it, and it's scheduled release was just a few weeks away.  It had already been completed, so they might as well release it anyway and get as much out of it as they could.  Hopefully, they will learn the next time around that they should not make movies like this ever again.  - Reinhart "},{"Title":"Go see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is not a comedy, this is a huge pile of s**t.  This movie s most likely used as punishment in hell.  If you want to see a comedy and a movie that doesn't suck go see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  That was a funny movie. Bubble Boy is not a movie it is a device of torture and is just plain s**ty "},{"Title":"Worst movie I ever seen in my life!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie and shut it off after an excruciating 20 minutes of playtime. You could tell it was awful right from the get go. What makes it worse is that they make a mockery of the real Bubble Buy - Tod Lubitch life and family. Nuff said! "},{"Title":"Who else can we offend?","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of time, money, and film!  This movie seems to set out to offend as many people as possible-people born with Primary Immunodeficiency and their families, Catholics, Hindus & Jews (and their faiths), as well as circus 'freaks' are all targets-directly or indirectly, just to name a few.I'm just glad I didn't pay full price for this, and even seeing it at the $1.25 2nd run theater would be paying too much. "},{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This may be one of the worst movies ever. I am not even referring to the subject matter. This was just plain bad. Bad writing, bad acting, you name it. How anybody could find this amusing is beyond me. If this is considered good then I am ashamed at how low the standards of today's moviegoers has plummetted. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly, I've wasted my money in the past on frivolous things.Here's another waste of money to add to the list.I've always been a fan of crazy, weird, and often downright stupid comedy movies... everything from Kevin Smith movies and South Park to SNL.I don't even believe that this movie could be called a comedy.  Perhaps something on the line of horror?The plot had potential, unfortunately, the potential was lost in an attempt to use supposedly witty connections to ethnic minority groups, cults, and other groups... which seems to have become the easy method of making a comedy without a plot.The movie fails miserably in its attempt at humor.  There are ways to use humor, even pick on various groups as the movie attempts to do, and challenge social norms, without blatant disregard for accuracy (i.e. South Park).  As a Hindu, the example which stands out is its absolute butchery of Hindu theology..=  In my opinion, there are plenty of things that are humorous enough within the religion that can be used as material for a comedy by maintaining at least the guise of accuracy.  This has been done before... the Simpsons, while definitely not a cross-section of the Asian-Indian culture in the U.S., is still funny, while maintaining a needed bit of sensitivity for accuracy.  Even South Park, while routinely abrasive, has maintained at least a slight bit of accuracy (i.e. the Super Friends episode).  You see, when accuracy is maintained, the level of humor is increased, which the storywriters of the movie seemed to simply forget. There are countless other examples of idiocy within the movie... but if I keep going, hey, I'll be here all morning.Do yourself a favor and watch a good comedy...=  The plot had potential, and a few parts of the movie even had me thinking that all hope wasn't lost. All in all, disappointing. "}{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this film last night, and I can honestly say that it's the WORST MOVIE EVER MADE!!! Out of all the people in the entire theater, I didn't hear 1 person laugh throughout the entire film. The previews look horribly bad for this movie, but the actual movie is 100 times worse! Don't go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Freaks to the left of me, bikers to the right, here I am, stuck in a bubble without you...","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just keep me away from comedies released in 2001. The same year such bold franchises as Harry Potter and The Lord of the Rings began we were fed indigestible trash such as The Animal, Black Knight, Corky Romano, Freddy Got Fingered, Joe Dirt, and, now, Bubble Boy. Gazing through the filmography of 2001, I think I've covered many of the bad comedies of that year, albeit a few honorable mentions such as Tomcats and Zoolander. I think after the aforementioned titles, however, I need a good cleansing.Bubble Boy is based off of the 1976 TV-movie The Boy in the Plastic Bubble, starring John Travolta and Robert Reed, which potentially offered a sympathetic look at the idea of a person possessing a poor immune system, meaning any encounter with a germ or a foreign substance of the body could be potentially fatal. However, in Blair Hayes' Bubble Boy, the material is effectively cheapened into a low-rent comedy about, of course, the same premise, except taken in an extreme case where Christian-Conservative parents keep their immunodeficient son locked away in a bubble in his room for a good twenty years. Inevitably, despite the mother's incessant converting and brainwashing, Jimmy Livingston (Jake Gyllenhaal) notices that a dashing young blonde named Chloe (Marley Shelton) has just moved in next door but his mother will have none of it.Jimmy and Chloe begin hang out in secrecy, with her coming up through his window on a daily basis to hang out, watch Land of the Lost (the only show Jimmy is allowed to watch), and just have a good time with each other. The suspension of disbelief that is necessary to believe a privileged, gorgeous blonde would give this amiable but sheltered boy any time of day is beyond my mental-capability, but I digress. Eventually, she finds some punk-rock buffoon she falls in love with and decides to pack up and leave for Niagara Falls to get married. Jimmy, already burdened by the inability to leave his bubble, decides to detach himself and travel to Niagara Falls to stop Chloe before she says I do. Except, you know, he's kind of in a bubble, so there's difficulty in that.The film follows the basic but oh-so monotonous formula of staging a comedic scene that mainly emphasizes how difficult or obtrusive life on the outside for sheltered Jimmy is because of his annoying bubble followed by a montage set to generic nineties rock and roll. The Jimmy character, who looks like a black-haired version of Stephen Baldwin's character from Bio-Dome, is also given a kiddish accent to go along with his sheltered personality, in an efforts to make an inherently innocent character all the more intolerable. I couldn't figure out what was more incredulous in the long run - the fact that Chloe sees something in Jimmy or that Jimmy manages to get bounced around enough in this film that he doesn't ever pop.Bubble Boy falls into an onslaught of road movie clichés, with director Hayes and the writing duo Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio constantly trying to concoct the most cockamamie scenario possible. Would you believe Jimmy gets thrown into the clutches of a ruthless cult led by popular model Fabio, put under the wing of a fearless biker played by Danny Trejo, lead through a circus of freaks run by Verne Troyer, and befriended by the most stereotypical Indian character American cinema has ever seen (his name is Pushpop for Christ's sake)? The issue with Bubble Boy is the same issue with many of the Adam Sandler films, for it gives us a ridiculous character that is difficult to side with in an implausible circumstance with many jokes falling flat and tacking on an ending which just seems borderline unacceptable in the long run. This is sad because Gyllenhaal is a terrible thing to waste and the filmmakers here found many ways to do just that.Starring Jake Gyllenhaal, Marley Shelton, Danny Trejo, Verne Troyer, Fabio, and Brian George. Directed by Blair Hayes. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all cost!","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I only endured this movie as it was playing in the Cardio Theatre of my gym. The absolutely ridiculous plot seemed to have been written by a group of friends sitting around drunk or stoned telling each other their ideas are hilarious. Amazing how those jokes ring hollow when you are sober! The attempts at satire are totally off the mark and the direct attempt at humor are worse. Perhaps the only really truly funny part of the movie comes when Jimmy bounces into a dive quick stop and the prototypical cute Midwestern girl behind the counter smiles at him and you think, oh, here comes the nice girl to help him out in some way and she turns out to be robbing the store. Cute bit. Wasted here. Avoid this one at all costs. I'm sure the actors regret everything about it save the paycheck. "},{"Title":"If Jesus made a movie.....","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It would be bubble boy. Between Fabio and Mini Me I couldn't stop crying. This is the best drama i have ever seen. I demand that everyone goes to see it at least twice. great!! movie!!great!! movie!!great!! movie!!great!! movie!!great!! movie!!great!! movie!!great!! movie!! "},{"Title":"Man, why why why?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this I thought it was gonna be one of those not-so-stellar over-the-top comedies of lately. And indeed I was correct upon viewing it. There wasn't any major stars in it which was quite good for this low budget film.There were many things I didn't like in this movie because it felt like it didn't flow and was illogical at some places. for instance, how could a boy (Jake Gyllenhaal) makes friends with a biker gang, a cult group of Todd and Lorraine, and Dr Phreak's people all coming together at the end to cheer on the poor boy for his courageous efforts to win the heart of the girl (Marley Shelton) whom he met at his house for a short duration.Running a mere 84 mins, which I wanted to end faster, I really don't think this movie should deserve any praise simply because it's not funny when you poke fun at children who are immunodeficient. I'm pretty sure some people/critics find the movie overall to be quite funny, I on the other hand didn't. In fact, I don't know how this movie got made in the first place, let alone the drafting stage.I'm only gonna be generous in the rating only because of the busty girls at that 500 dolla place. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Garbage; symbolic garbage, but garbage","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This piece actually had a chance to achieve so much more.  I saw potential in the first 33 minutes, as I thought this work actually had something to say.The symbolism of the bubble as the protective net thrown over America's youth by paranoid mothers was strong and apt.  America's overzealous right-wing would be well served by taking a lesson from this part of the film.  Notice that our young hero, repressed by his bubble, knows exactly as much about the outside world as his mother would have allowed him to see even if he were not challenged.This film took another strong step towards its' apparent statement when our protagonist encounters the Bus Stop Attendant.  In the bus stop attendant, we see a glimpse into the life of someone who has voluntarily put himself into his own bubble, shutting himself up in a ticket booth almost the same size as the bubble, only this man is comfortable where he is.  In his ticket booth, he is king and kingdom, condescending to the outside world, trapped in the rigid, regimented world of the petty rules he has established for himself.  He is alone, friendless, washed up on the shores of the desert he has created for himself.At this point, I was mildly surprised by how much this film was offering; a compelling illustration of what happens to those who refuse to take risks, who refuse to rise to challenges, who are content to remain trapped in the day-to-day routine that life always offers.  We see this point brilliantly illustrated in the character of our hero's father, who has settled in to the point that he las lost his identity, his drive, his potential, and his lust for life.  He lives vicariously through his son, and when you put all of these elements together, you have a very nice piece.Then they go to Las Vegas and the movie falls apart.  Once this thing falls off the cliff, it goes on a free-fall that doesn't end until the gentle viewer lands in a hell that doesn't end until the credits roll.  Suddenly, we're thrown from a thoughtful, insightful statement about today's youth and society into Magical Mystery Tour 2001.  At least with the orignal MMT, you could dose yourself and get some entertainment out of it.  But this...I don't know what in the heck happened here.  Stupid, outlandish caricatures and stereotypes take over the movie and never give it back.  Nothing is funny.  Well, wait a minute.  Any movie with Fabio in it automatically gets a bump in the ratings because he has no qualms at all about making fun of his own novelty as an actor.If you ever see this movie on Pay-per-view, please, save yourself.  This movie could have achieved a lot.  It didn't, and I want that hour of my life back.  Notice I don't want the first 33 minutes back; that wasn't bad.  "},{"Title":"How'd this get greenlighted?","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You know, after seeing the ending, I was reminded a LOT of Joe Dirt.  And of The Animal.  And of almost every gross-out comedy that has come out this year.  The plot is incredibly sophomoric and racist.  My advice  take the five dollars you'd spend on this and rent Clerks, the other movie that I saw this weekend.  If you're an intelligent person, you'll laugh until it hurts. If you don't laugh, maybe you should've seen this piece of crap instead. "},{"Title":"HOW STUPID!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GEsh! This movie was so terriable I cant even put it into words! I wasn't expecting much...but gesh I didnt think it would be that BAD!! There was no plot to this movie....I wish the bubble boy would have died in the end...at least it would have had a better story line! I give this movie one big fat ZERO!   "},{"Title":"Donnie Dorko?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am giving this movie a 1 because the imdb scale doesn't go any lower; technically I would rate it a MINUS 8.   Jake Gyllenhaal (Donnie Darko) and Verne Troyer (Mini Me) cannot save this pathetic, rancid  bubble-brained exercise in bad judgment (I won't even USE the word 'writing').  How this piece of garbage actually got produced is the big question.  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film on a whole is very average. I did like the opening 15 mins, a few laughs, but then the film went downhill from there. The idea was good - a boy stuck in a bubble!!!Its lucky that i didn't have to pay to rent this film so that made it more enjoyable when i was watching it.It was a fast moving film, but in parts it did seam to drag on a little.I gave this a 5/10 vote as the lead lady (Marley Shelton) looked HOT through out the film. "}{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not leaping over puddles for this one. I love Jake Gyllenhaal and though he does a good job, the movie sucks. I'm sorry to those who like it. That's fine if you. But it's just not my cup of tea. There were some good parts, just like there is for most movies. But over all I didn't find all that many. Normally I would say if you haven't see it yet, to go so and see it, but not this time. So if you haven't seen it, count your blessings and don't. And you have, good for you, especially for you liked it or thought it was okay. It is my overall opinion that the movie is not that good. And that's okay for me to say so too.It is not a movie that I would recommend. "}]