[{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Except for the previews for several horrible kid movies and an excruciating ten minute Angela Anaconda short, Digimon The Movie was a great film!I think that my friend and myself were the only people in the theatre who understood it, as the little kids and their parents probably had no idea what was going on or why. It's a deeper movie than I expected, and hard to understand if you haven't been following the TV show to become acquainted with the characters and their world.The animation is great and fun to look at, there's a lot of comedy, interesting characters and rad monsters. I was surprised to find there was even a little poop.If you're a fan of the show, you'll probably love every second of the movie, although a lot of it is apt to fly right over little kids' heads. "},{"Title":"Funtimes","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really can't bring myself to insult this movie as it got me into anime. Actually, to rephrase that, it got me interested in the idea of anime Akira got me into PROPER anime.As for the film, it is actually pretty good. Digimon is one of those anime series that, while aimed at younger audiences, is actually very enjoyable. There are funny moments, and the fight scenes are cool without being too violent.The film is split into three loosely linked sections, the first really just setting the story up, but containing a cool fight scene at the end. The second part is the longest and most enjoyable it features Tai and Izzy trying to stop a Digimon with a virus that has taken over the internet. This section contains the best jokes and interaction between the characters, and has a good plot and animation. The third part I didn't like so much, but for the record is takes place later, and deals with the aftermath of what happened, this time set in the USA.Obviously, Digimon The Movie is just a kids picture, and the animation and plot are pretty basically, but it will be enjoyed by fans of the series, children who are into anime, scifi, etc. and even my more mature (i.e. older!) anime fans like myself who just want a fun little film to pass the time with. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those of you who think Digimon rips off Poke'mon guess what?DIGIMON CAME FIRST!Although Poke'mon appeard here in america first,it was Digimon that came first in Japan where it all started,so Poke'mon is the rip off!Anyway,about the film.This is a good movie,with some great action,poor comedy,and some of the best drama found,and unlike most movies of a show,this one is linked with the Tv series,I recommend this,and the show to anybody,you'll like it,if you don't,better call for some help,if you know what I mean whacko! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was watching this movie today, having not seen it for about two years, and I noticed a LOT more in it this time than when I last saw it 1. The stunning animation. Not the Americanised, simplistic anime but a prettier and more detailed style. Smoother animation, too.2. The plot - a more developed version of what you get on the series, which is what fans like to see! ) 3. The humour! I have always loved Digimon's humour and it is definitely improved further in this movie.4. The fight scenes are as good as ever! 5. Great soundtrack! (apart from that Digimon Rap thing at the start - it got on my nerves o_O;;)So, overall, this movie is great entertainment. Obviously I recommend this especially to Digimon fans but it also appeals to other audiences. I myself was a Digimon fan about 6 years ago, and hadn't seen it, and when I saw the old videos I have of the series and the movie recently after pulling them out of my shelves I remembered why I liked Digimon so much D As everyone else has said, beats Pokemon any day! And this is coming from an ex-Pokemon fan too! Maybe the reason it beats Pokemon (apart from the reasons above) is because Digimon shows a lot more human emotion, rather than just fight fight fight pull Brock away from girls and more fighting and getting shiny badges.Three word summary BIG Digimon adventure "},{"Title":"Part two of the movie was hilarious","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I like the second part of the movie best because of the way Izzy looked liked when he was about to burst.  Furthermore, this movie serves as to what happens after the first series ends.  To me, I loved how it was told and I loved how Tai got frustrated over a silly letter to his friend Sora.  It was funny to see the movie, especially when Izzy ate all that bad food of Tai's mother.  But its purpose of it will never be forgotten for this movie really rocks. "},{"Title":"A well-deserved movie for an excellent series (1 small spoiler)","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Four years ago, when I first heard that my favorite animated series was being brought to the big screen, needless to say I was ecstatic. Over time, I've seen plenty of disappointing adaptations of TV series, such as the much anticipated Pokemon the First Movie and, most recently, the weak Yu-Gi-Oh the Movie. But Digimon was different. Although it may not have been a perfect movie in the myriad of overall excellent films, It was the perfect Digimon movie. I do not think they could have done a better job. There was a perfect balance of drama and humor, seriousness and sarcasm, just what Digimon is all about. A great comprehensible plot is depicted, plus it expanded on the Tai/Sora romance hinted in Season 1. Overall if you are a digimon fan or just want to know what it's all about, don't miss this one.Animated Movie Score (10/10) Overall Movie Score (8.5/10) Recommended "},{"Title":"Man were they wrong","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I was in Vermont me and my sister was looking forward to seeing the digimon movie.  Of course, we found out that it got such bad reviews that they made a news article about it.When my sister, my sister's friend and me went to see the movie, I was surprised.  C'mon guys, it wasn't THAT bad!  The animation was cheap, but detailed (an example of an oxy-moron).  Some parts of the movie were even funny.  ExampleTai Hello, my name is Tai, Taaaiii.  An this is my sister, Kari, KaaarrriiiKoromon Hello Tai Tai Kari Kari! (lol).Alot of the movie was pretty violent, but at least it had good plots. This could beat a pokemon movie any day!  Those reviewers should get their heads examined! "},{"Title":"Funny, enjoyable, and is really just three episodes","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It took me forever to figure it out, but after enough searching, I found out why.I found that the movie was a lot like the show, so close that it seemed like they had just thrown three episodes together.  The only reason I put up with this, these three 'episodes' were effectively on their own and were referred to briefely in the series (well, 2 of them were).It ends up that I was half right.  after searching, I found out that it isn't three episodes strung together, but currently there are some 6 digimon 'movies' released in Japan, and three of them are in this single movie that we saw in the western world.  It seems that the Japanese form of a movie is 30 minutes long (how this works is beyond me).Outside that, it was enjoyable.  I had fun watching it, taping it and watching it again, and catching all the jokes they had.  It's what makes the series enjoyable, and it sure saved the movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, fast paced and packed with action","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For an animation, this film was the best I've ever seen. It had exceptional quality throughout and it actually convinced me to watch the television series. I like the way it spans different time lines and explains the whole story, rather than the Pokemon movie. It entertained me every step of the way with a great sound track, dialogue, and characters. The plot seems rather simple when you first hear what it's actually about, but its modern approach makes it original and likeable. The only problem was, the screenplay was a little too quick, even for people who watch the television show, and I lost track in some parts of the movies; in fact, I had to watch it twice to properly understand the entire film. But, everything else aside, I really liked this film and I'd seriously recommend it to anyone, adults or children. If you think it's just another Pokemon movie, you're wrong. "},{"Title":"Animation at its best","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll start with the bad news. Anyone who has never seen the series could get very confused.Glad thats over. Digimon is a great movie, the sound track is awesome, the comedy is classic and the story line rocks.The animation harks back to the Japanese style of 10/20 years ago, and is less simple and Americanised than the series. The script is full of one liners and  hilarious slapstick. The humour will have kids and adults laughing out loud so parents can have a good time too.The action is very fast paced and this where non-fans could fall down. It could get a little confusing even avid watchers of the show could get lost.This was nothing like Pokemon, and cannot be called a rip off as there is no similarity apart from mon being in the title. But I greatly advise any fan off the  growing mon world to see this one. "}{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie is so good it's got a great message in the end of unity and friendship. It's exciting and touching I love this movie. It isn't just some stupid kiddy film like the pokemon movies it's great for all ages shame the TV series wasn't as good as the movie. It's classic japanesse animation with great characters and lush colours I think everyone should watch this it's just a beautiful message wrapped in some action and comedy. the whole digimon prospect is way too complicated because of all the levels but you can try to ignore this and just get to the gritty beauty.  "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly low rating","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must say, I watched a real lot of movies, and movies that were made from games and/or existing series. As for the Digimon The Movie it was one of those very few movies, that actually was a great and interesting movie! The story, characters, character design, and especially music and animation was very well done (okay, animation got a little to the bad side in the middle of the movie, but apart from that it was great, especially the human character animation). I am really surprised that this movie didn't got above 7.5 on IMDb rating, I'm not really a fan of Digimon series, not that I don't like it, simply I didn't watch it because of lack of access to it, anyway, the thing is This is a really great movie, I think the people only rated it lowly because instead of watching it with the Another New Experience in mind, they watched it as Another Movie for Kids, and so they blocked themselves from having fun, and enjoying the movie. I don't think this attitude is right towards any movie which goal isn't offensive towards a group of people (ex racist, anti Christian, anti semitic, etc.). However I must add that there are respectful people who can rate this movie lowly because of it's clearly fictional story, but hey! It's a movie for teens! Apart from that generalist review I would like to point out few things I loved the effects used for impact, like all the electronics going crazy every time something from digimon world interfered with real world. Also I loved the humor in the movie, it's really great.I recommend this movie for anyone above 8 years old (because of the fight scenes) and below 100 years old, and I don't recommend it for closed minded people. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a 27 year old male, with a 7 year old son, Nicholas. I took Nick to see all three Pokemon movies in the theater. Those were very hard to sit through. When Digimon The Movie came out, I said we'd wait for video. When it came out I bought it for him and we watched it. It was awesome!!!!! I thought it was done very well, it had some adult humor and cool action scene's. I couldn't believe I suffered through all those Pokemon films and missed this! What a shame I missed seeing this in the theater! Oh well, thank goodness for DVD. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, although it had some flaws","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, it's hard to say if this movie is just awesome, just good or awful. It fully depends on what you like, and don't forget it's an animated movie. I first watched this movie about 8 years ago (I'm still pretty young). Back then I couldn't review it, but after seeing it again, I think I can.It surprises me how well this is animated. Seriously, it was almost scary how detailed it was. Almost every move had a different detail, like when Omnimon was fighting Diaboromon. Maybe that's a bad example, but I couldn't think of others. Although I must admit the graphics self were a bit simplified, like the shading, the animation totally made up for it.As for the soundtracks, they were quite the same as the music from season 1 and 2, well, mostly season 2. There may be one or two tracks who were new, but I can't recall. At least the music was good and it all fit well together.Alright, now for the movie itself (yup, I'm not done), and I mean the script and stuff. Man, that's really hard. The main reason is that it's quite different from the original series. Not that the story has changed, maybe slightly, but it's a lot more dramatic then you expect from a regular Digimon episode. The fights had a lot more action in it, and were much more scarier. If I was a little kid, I could actually get nightmares from it. The sound effects also play a big role, because they sound a lot more destructive. But what really makes it awesome, as I call it, are the virus-kind Digimon, like Diaboromon.Man, those guys are scary. Those eyes, bodies, colors... Everything on them is freakin' weird. But that's what makes it so cool. It's the horror in the monsters what makes it so cool to watch. The hell with nightmares, as long as I can watch this movie!. Not that I would say that of course if I was like 7 or 8.There are some other points like the length that surprised me. The movie is 88 minutes long, which means (duh) it's 1 hour and 28 minutes long. That doesn't sound like much, but believe me, it is. It's mostly because there's always something going on. Humor or action, it doesn't matter. By the way, most animated movies are as long as that, but most of them have those stupid unnecessary scenes in them. I won't give any examples.Okay, some flaws are in this movie, I will sum the stuff up -The drawings are a bit simplified. -The endings a bit cut-off and strange -The story went a bit off, there were some things not mentioned in the series who were mentioned in the movie only, which makes the story a bit twisted, but still nice.And some good things -Kickass animation! -Nice storyline -Dramatic awesome fighting scenes. -Lots of humoristic parts.I think that's all I need to say about this movie. It's fun if you like anime, but even if you don't, give it a try. I'm not a real Digimon fan, but I just love anime.PS My personal downside is the fact that they're using a Windows rip- off, and even mention Bill Gates! As an Apple-fan, I don't really like that. Although it's an old movie of course. "},{"Title":"It could have been much better, but still very much enjoyable as movie.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've been a fan of Digimon Adventure and Zero Two for about four years now, and when I heard they were coming out with a movie in America for it I got excited.So when I finally saw it, it was somewhat of a letdown. Sure, the movie has its funny parts, but it was too changed from the original Japanese versions that it just can't really compare. For one, the three parts don't really have anything to do with each other. They're three separate movies in Japan (and there was a fourth one later that never made it's way to the US), and they should have stayed that way. Plus, chunks were left out of the movie to cut down on time, parts that were rather important to understanding the plot as a whole. Some of the jokes were funny, but some were quite stupid, and of course a lot of them portrayed Daisuke (Davis) as being more stupid than he was shown in the Japanese version.However, I understand that many people cannot understand raw Japanese, and as of yet there is no official subtitled version legally released, so if you enjoy Digimon and are looking for a good laugh, I would still recommend this movie. Though I admit I enjoyed the four Japanese movies better than this one, it's still a movie I found good enough to go out and buy and watch from time to time. It's cute, it's fun, and how can you not enjoy a movie about a bunch of kids and their pet digital monsters trying to save not just one, but the best of two worlds? "},{"Title":"I hate anime, I hate the show, I hate Pokemon and all of its rip-offs. Why do I love this movie?!!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This puzzles me. Me brother is absolutely insane over this stuff. First Pokemon, then Dragonball Z, then Gundam Wing, and finally, Digimon. Pokemon disgusted me with it's crap jokes, cheesy plots, and incredibly cheap animation. GW and DBZ were a bit better, but it still had cheap animation. Then, my brother got into Digimon. It looked to me like a Pokemon rip-off which is bad because I would have to put up with more crap jokes and cheesy plots, even if the animation was better. The show sucked. Then he brought home the movie. I was going to bed when he popped the tape into his TV. Because we share a room, and he was allowed to watch the movie as we go to sleep, I had no choice. My sister was in Mongolia with my CD player, so I had to watch the movie. I hated the theme song most of all. Then I heard some alternative, and I paid more attention. Afterwards, I would discover that the entire soundtrack is made up of punk, ska, the theme song, and one or two classical clips. Why am I watching this? I asked myself. I couldn't give me an acceptable answer. I don't know how, but this film produces a glow and excitement in me that only about six other films have succeeded in producing. Bravo, Digimon. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Digimon The Movie is the best ever anime movie I have seen. It has the best anime effects and the sound is amazing. Having the new digi-destined as seen in Digimon season 2 and the story of how the original digi-destined is completely brilliant. I would give this movie 100% rating "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really loved Digimon The Movie, it is much better than most people say. It was action packed and very exciting! I was on the edge of my seat the whole time just waiting for the next battle or problem to happen. I went to the movie theater thinking it was going to a kiddy movie and I left wanting more. The only disapointment of the movie is that when it ended I had to leave and that was the end. Over all I would give the movie 10/10 stars for good animation, great battles, action, and plot. "},{"Title":"Move over Pokemon! Digimon is in town!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As i said, 'Move over Pokemon! Digimon is in town!'...i wasn't joking. This movie was great! I have seen this movie 3 times and it hasn't gone boring.Not even the funny parts i still laugh and when the sad parts are on, i still cry. Even when its a happy moment, i smile. I love this movie and i will always. This is the first movie(i've seen) that actually had like 3 stories with three story lines! The drawings are not the best, but i still think they did a kick a** job! The music came at the perfect time! Like the fatboy slim song for example.That was the perfect for when Miko and koromon were fighting...and that was the part it was playing! What do I give it out of 10 you ask? 11...Ya ya, 11 isn't between 10. but it's that good! even better, 100! The movie was great.What did i hate? The Angela Anaconda thing. VERY dumb! What else? Let's see...i really loved the whole thing...oh ya...they didn't show matt shooting jun. LOL j/k...I wish though...They could of added digi bloopers at the end. That would be very cool! Anyway, even if you aren't a digimon fan, this is a great movie. Remeber, you'll laugh, cry and smile...so who doesn't want a movie that does that? No one! SO go on...get goin!*Tip Just so you don't miss anything, eat and drink a lot of food before you go and don't forget to go to the bathroom too or else you'll HAVE to go....Hey i only told a few skittles and pop corn and 6 sips of coke and i HAD to go! "},{"Title":"A good Movie","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Contains Spoilers*I am a huge digimon fan and I was glad when I heard they were making a movie. I saw it the first day it came out and I saw it again a week later. The movie was great. My favorite section was part two. That was so funny, especially the part when Izzy got sick from Tai's mother's drink. I thought the action in part was also very good. I was a little upset that my two favorite characters T.K. and Sora didn't have that big of a role but what can you do about that.The movie was also very funny. Whenever something bad was going to happen a character would make a joke. The ending of part three was also very sad. I thought I was going to cry after one of Willis's digimon died.I also liked the romance between Sora and Tai during part two of the movie. They go so good together.Overall I really enjoyed this movie and I give it 10/10 stars. "}{"Title":"Cool. Some major spoilers!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was walking around a video rental store, when I happened upon this tape. It just so happened that it was on the movie network later that night. So, I watched it. Now, normally, I don't like the series much, if at all, but the movie really surprised me. The movie's story is about a digimon that in and of itself is a computer virus, which begins to replicate, and while doing so, hacking into a military base's computer system, and launching missiles, setting a 10 minute countdown to impact. Now, by hacking into the military base, and spreading through the internet, he's disabled all missile interceptors. One of the missiles is aimed at the neighborhood of one of the Digidestined, who is frantically trying to stop this virus. When they succeed, the missiles are disabled, and don't explode. A few years down the road, a new Digidestined is being constantly pursued by a monster digimon, which we later find out was of his creation. The digimon wants him to go back to the beginning, and with the help of some friends, figures out that the digimon was infected by a virus during his creation, and needs his help to rid himself of it. He and his friends use their digimons' combined power to help it, and ultimately succeed. This movie boasts smooth animation, and great visuals which make the movie all the more fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Great movie and good story line!(very easy to understand)","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, it may be hard to remember all the Digimons names like Agumon to MegaKabuterimon but i don't care, the story line was very interesting and easy to understand. The movie came out in New Zealand yesterday, since it was my brother's birthday yesterday i thought i would take him to the movies. It was either Pokemon or Digimon. My brother wanted to watch Pokemon, but I took him last year to see the 1st one and man did it suck. So i just said the tickets were all sold out, so he did'nt really mind. Anyway it really paid off we both injoyed a movie we both liked for once. There was'nt much lovey dubby scenes (thank God) and the mixture of fighting and talking was even. Overall i give it 8 and a 1/2 out of ten. By the way we saw Pokemon 2000 this morning and man am i glad that i did'nt see it yesterday.  "},{"Title":"Worth the trip!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Worth the trip to see. It's the kind of movie you would like to watch a second time. Had a lot of funny lines. Kept you on the edge of your seat waiting to see what was next. Good for most ages without little kids getting scared and wanting to go home early! "},{"Title":"What can I say?  This was a GREAT movie!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I do not think there is much that I can add that has not already been said. I truly loved this movie.  I gave it a 9 out of 10.  It is NOT a ripoff of Pokemon.  In  Japan at least Digimon came first.  Thanks to narrations throughout the movie you can follow it even if you do not know much about the show.  However, if you are a fan like me and have seen every episode, you will enjoy it a lot more.There were only 2 things I did not like.  1. I hated the Angela Anaconda short at the beginning.  These annoying characters have no place in such an excellent movie.  2.  The last scene was too silly for me.  Still, other than these small complaints, I highly recommend that all Digimon fans see this movie.  You will not be disappointed.  If you are not a fan, seeing this movie may change your mind. "},{"Title":"Expect the Unexpected!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Mrs. Monster and I walked into the theatre expecting nothing.  After blowing some hard earned green on the first Pokemon movie, which was akin to a bad acid trip and a typical half hour episode that ran too long, we felt we should have known better, but being the hardcore animeniacs we are, we had to give it a whirl.  We were more than pleasantly surprised!First and foremost, the animation was phenomenal!  The fluid motion and obvious emotion of the characters was a great example of what animation should be!  The animators departed from the more simplistic style of the television series making Digimon The Movie more of an event than a film adaptation.  The photo-realistic background paintings made the settings come alive.  The mixture of computer and traditional animation blended smoothly, one style never overshadowed the other.The story was cohesive though it seemed a bit long in parts.  It breaks down into three acts.  Act One goes into detail about the first experience the Digidestined had with the Digital World and introduces a character named Willis who was mentioned once on the current series up until this writing. Act Two takes place some time after the original Digidestined have saved the Digital World.  Finally, Act Three deals mostly with the new Digidestined.  Willis plays a vital role in all three of these stories though we don't see him interact with the other characters face-to-face until the third act.I'm the last person to try and find some kind of moral lesson or meaning in a movie.  That's what school, your parents and living life's for.  Movies are for sheer entertainment, but Digimon did have a few lessons in there for the kiddies without feeling the need to beat them over the head with them.  The film taught the importance of teamwork, being happy with what you have and turning a bad situation into something good, but just to name a few.Finally, the soundtrack was awesome!  Of course, any soundtrack that has the Barenaked Ladies is awesome to me since I've been a diehard fan for the past 7 years!With most movies where I go in expecting nothing, I usually get nothing, but with Digimon The Movie I got more than I could have ever expected!  So, whether you're a Digifan or don't know a Digimon from Digitalis, there's enough solid movie here to satisfy everyone!  I'm going to go see this one again! "},{"Title":"Great movie... for die-hard fans anyways!","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" DIGIMON!! D! YAAY!!! Once a Digimon fan, always a Digimon fan! In my case anyways.. When I was little, I was completely obsessed with this series and even today, Im still pretty fond of these characters and all the little adventures they went on. This movie really wasn't -that- great, but to a die-hard Digimon fan like me, I had to give it a 8 because come on.. its Digimon!!! P Otherwise this movie probably deserves like a 4-5 if you've never seen or heard about this series before.This movie is actually a compilation of 3 separate movies, but they just spliced them together and tried to make it flow as one. You cant really tell though so it didn't really bother me. They did cut out some scenes though to shorten this movie, but those parts didn't influence the storyline that much.This movie was pretty funny, and it had a lot of action in it. Some of the jokes were corny and made me just shake my head. Speaking of corny, wow, the songs/sound track were lame. It was actually a little embarrassing to be honest, to have to sit through and listen to this terrible Digi-rap as a person in their early 20s. Face palm! Overall, I still found the movie enjoyable. It has a lot of action in it and kept me on the edge of my seat. If you want to see the unedited original films, you can search for them on google. The Japanese version is much more serious than the American version, and best of all.. no more childish and annoying Digi-rap/Digimon songs. Instead of the Digimon, Digital Monsters, Digimon are the Champion songs that they mindlessly repeat throughout the American version, the Japanese version instead has Ravel's Bolero as the main theme... well in the first part with Baby Tai anyways.If you're a die-hard Digimon fan, you will absolutely love this movie! If you are curious about the scenes that were edited out, try searching for the Japanese version on google. If you aren't a Digimon fan then I cant really recommend this movie. It has a lot of action in it, but its also laced with corniness. Depending on your tolerance, you might be able to sit through this childish version of the original. Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"digimon","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" my sister used to always for some oddly reason get mixed up between Pokémon and digimon and every time i were watching digimon she would always be like can we change the channel from Pokémon?and i would be like no it's digion.hahahahaha.but i would always watch the show on t.v. i thought the movie was great i'not gonna lie. i liked it better than the t.v. show.all the action and digimons and everything and i'm also glad they started from when tai and his sister were younger because i was wondering how his sister got a digimon.no lie.and then David liked tai's sister it was funny and he would alway try to impress her every time but it usually never worked.i just wanted to give the movie some praise though that's all. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am an adult now, and this is still one of my favorite movies for many reasons, beyond the obvious nostalgia factor. First and foremost, it's absolutely hilarious. I'm not kidding, it's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, and I laugh out loud every single time i watch it. The jokes are knee-slappingly cheesy, but genuinely funny. And who doesn't get a kick out of the silly puns? The characters are hilarious, quick-witted, and sarcastic, and the humorous dialogue flows quickly and effortlessly through their conversations, packing as many laughs in as possible. A taste of the fun Tai Hello there, this is Tai. Grandmother You're selling ties? Tai No, my name is Tai. I'm looking for Matt or TK. Grandmother That's a coincidence, those are my Grandkids' names. Tai Are they there? Grandmother mmm-hmmm Tai Right now? Grandmother mmm-hmmm Tai Can I talk to them? Grandmother Oh, I love to talk to them too. They're here visiting. Tai Please! I need to speak to them right away! Grandma mmm-hmmm, OK I'll tell them. *hangs up* Kids! Tai ... Now that's good old fashioned humor. Also, this movie has an AWESOME soundtrack. Music from Barenaked Ladies, Smashmouth, and more, not to mention the Digirap, will keep you jamming throughout the show. Any Digimon fan will love this movie. Maybe it's because I'm a bit of a child at heart, but I recommend it to anyone with any sort of vague interest in battling cartoon monsters, or anything else awesome. You will not regret watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this movie with my little brother and he is a Digimon fan. Now, I'm not a huge Digimon fan and I came with my brother because he couldn't go alone and I knew my parents did not want to see it. I came out of the movie really liking it, I enjoyed watching it. It's a fantastic movie for all Digimon fans, but kids parents may not like it. It does have some violence, but it's not bloody or full of guts. The violence is tasteful and the movie has it's funny moments! The animation is really the only thing about the movie that wasn't really great, but everything else about the movie is great! "},{"Title":"Digimon ARE the champions!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Move over, Pokemon.  You've had your day in the sun, and now it's time to make room for the REAL champions, DIGIMON.  This movie has everything Pokemon 2000 didn't.  The animation, and the scenes of the Digimon inside the Internet in particular, is SPECTACULAR.  Nice plot that fully reveals itself only at the end, and some hilarious dialogue.  (The parents in the theater were laughing harder than their kids were.)  It also has a good soundtrack, featuring music by Smash Mouth, Barenaked Ladies, and The Mighty Mighty Bosstones.  I'm not really sure why the MPAA gave this a PG rating when Pokemon got a G, but that really doesn't matter.  Fox did a good job with this one.  It's an enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only things I would say about Digimon the Movie that are in anyway negative are these Number one, having seen series one and two helps a lot. Number two, and in my eyes the most important, is AVOID the Angela Anaconda short before the movie at all costs.Now on to the positive. Digimon The movie is without doubt my favorite movie of all time. Split into three parts, it expands tremndously on the tv series. Full of jokes (One of my favorites is when Diaboromon is wreaking havoc with all the electronics, including cash registers.Till-lady Okay, that's one box of chocolates. Your total comes to one million, one hundred...HUH?!?! Yeah...that's what it say...Paper or plastic?), a kicking soundtrack, a plot that knocks spots off of pokemon...And Omnimon, without doubt the coolest hybrid of a metal wolf and a Dinosaur Warrior ever to wield a big sword and a cannon welded onto his arms. All in all, Cracking film "},{"Title":"It is a truly wicked movie!!!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a HUGE HUGE HUGE fan of digimon, I still like Pokemon, but it's not my favourite anymore once I saw the Digimon series. When the movie came to UK, I was so disappointed that I didn't get the chance to see it, because there's no cinema near my house. However, I've read some summaries on the internet about the movie, so I know roughly what it's about.I bought the video yesterday, and boy! Was it just great! It was packed with action and has some pretty violent scenes. The pace of the film is quite fast, and since my first language is not English, I have some trouble following the storyline, but nevertheless it was fantastic! I don't really like the first part (although Tai and Kari were both very cute) because I think it's quite boring. The second and third parts were awesome! I like the part where Wargreymon and Metalgarurumon DNA digivolve together, and the power of all the emails were very touching.  The best bit in the third part is the Armour digivolve of the new digimon, because I've never seen Series 2 before, and this is the first time I saw Armour digivolve. I think the animation was wicked!!! Of course, I like the golden armour digivolve as well!In general, I think the overall atmosphere of this movie is very tense, you definitely won't go sleepy (unless you hate digimon) when watching the film. I don't think it is for kids because the film is too violence. I will give it 10 out of 10 for this movie, and I highly recommend all the digi-fans to go to see this film!!! "},{"Title":"Rocks all the ass.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being the fan of animation and monsters that I am, I was looking forward to this movie. However, not being a massive fan of the show had me slightly worried that I might not be able to follow what would happen in the film. I had nothing to fear. This movie is a total blast. If you have seen the reviews by  the critics you would believe this movie to be utter drek, with sub-par animation and no story. To those  critics,  I say, Get thy head out thine a**e. Obviously they weren't watching the movie, or they would have seen some of the SWEETEST animation in years. Fluidity in motion and line to spare. Great action screens, freaky character designs, and moments of shear beauty, that the Pan and Scan DVD will destroy. I haven't walked out of a movie so pumped full of adrenaline since Starship Troopers. This movie is full. It's beautiful. The excessive use of the word mon is annoying, and the Barenaked Ladies so was uncalled for.But, if you are a fan of Kaiju (giant monsters), superheroes, and boss animation, this film is soooo worth seeing. Critics don't know squat. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of the animation and the story. For Digimon's first outing into the movie world, it far surpassed the first Pokemon movie in quality.  The voice acting was superb, the visuals exciting, the sound effects awesome. It was a very 'human' story, despite obvious fantasy elements.  While some may call it a Pokemon rip-off, it is different enough to stand apart from the Pokemon craze.  I plan to see it again, personally. "},{"Title":"Nothing much, only fantastic.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is not just another kids movie. It is rated PG, so naturally, I was surprised to see so many little kids there. But, getting back to my review... This movie is a very good, entertaining movie with just the right mix of comedy and horror (that scene with kerpymon is DEFINITELY too scary for real little kids). It is a very good movie, so naturally, just about everyone loves it, except of course for the professional movie critics, who extol such c**p as Babe 2, while passing off great movies like this as dull and thoroughly unenjoyable. Bottom line, I love this movie, and unless you are a professional movie critic, there's no reason why you shouldn't too. "},{"Title":"Honestly, a great film which deserves a MUCH higher rating.","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this film only today, as I'm going through all the videos I used to like as a kid. At first, I thought it was going to be all cheesy and little-kiddie, but then I actually found myself more thrilled and enjoyable towards it than most more mature movies.All the music and action was so exciting, even if you're not a little kid. And some of the jokes actually set me off laughing! I did not believe how great this film was. It really took me back to my childhood.The only bad point, however, was the third part of the movie. Sure, it was good, but hardly matched up to the first two parts. Maybe it was just the sudden change of characters. I never did like the second set of kids as much as Tai, Izzy, Matt, Sora and the others. But still, it was very entertaining.This film doesn't deserve a 4.7 rating, at all. Maybe all the critics on here never had a childhood. If you did, then watch this movie. As for anyone else... well, they're wrong.By the end of the film, I had tears in my eyes, honestly. It just bought back so many memories, and the last shot, along with the music, it gave me goosebumps... I loved it.10/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Great if you like the show","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" As an adult re-watching the TV show and movie since he was a kid, I have to say that it holds up rather nicely.The movie is split into three parts, which were actually three separate movies in Japan. There was some editing in America so Willis would be a plot device to tie the three stories together, but it is clear where the movie breaks up.Overall, I have to say I like this a lot better than the Japanese versions. It has a much better soundtrack and dialogue that makes you laugh.The main downside is how much was edited out of the third segment. The Japanese version of it moves a lot smoother.The second segment is definitely the best. It has great effects (I just love watching them running down the tunnels past the screens of the Digidestined), great new Digimon, and a great story. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but really not for kids","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the TV series so was looking forward to the film of Digimon, and I wasn't disappointed. I'm not going to go into big plot details, but the way the story panned out was more intelligent than a lot of supposed 'adult' action movies. There were some really beautiful touches to the animation - Willis in the meadow; and the white silhouettes of all the kids coming from the e-mails spring to mind. It was moving, and the emotion expressed seemed genuine without lapsing into being overly sentimental. Some of the humour was obvious, but most of it was laugh-out-loud funny. My one problem is the same as the one I have for the TV series - it really is not for children. I watched it with a friend (we are both in our twenties) and were shocked by some of the scenes - there is a lot of violence. Now I don't mind violence in films at all, but the producers should consider what's appropriate. Someone, even if it is a monster, having its head split in half with a sword, and limbs being blown off the lasers doesn't really strike me as suitable for young kids. In all, this is an exciting and moving film. It's funny, it draws you in and gets you emotionally involved. Just don't let your kids watch it. "},{"Title":"More combat - even more comedy","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like other series-to-film adaptations, a little familiarity enhances the experience; but forget who-digivolves-to-what and Digimon The Movie can be enjoyed just for the hilarious scripting and chimerical creatures.No stirring oratory here; just off-the-cuff oneliners and the occasional heartfelt tirade.  These are kids, not professional superheroes, and their suboptimal improvisations are played for max comedy; that, plus juxtapositions of the digi-dangerous and mundane (now with wheat germ!).Sure, I'm a grizzled veteran of hard-SF, but the travel-sized Digimon in their pre-Champion phases are irresistably cute.  Where else will you find a talking rabbitoid with inflatable prehensile ears, as devoted to its human partner as one of Anne McCaffrey's Pernese dragons?Ditto for the first of the film's three acts, chronicling Japan's first Digimon incursion.  Tousle-haired young Tai Kamiya (inseparable from his trademark goggles, even then) frantically tries to conceal a newly-hatched Digimon from Mom -- we'll say it's a throw pillow.  Little sister Kari merely thinks it's the greatest playmate ever, even when the gregarious bouncing pink head smooches them like a facehugger from the Alien films.There's the obligatory 50%-combat-by-weight, of course, with several new Digimon and additional digivolutionary phases (many with a distinct Evangelion aesthetic).  The film suffers by looking like an upscaled TV episode, as the fat black outlines and recycled transformations attest. The CGI'd zero-g combat-within-the-internet (now with ferris wheels!) is new, however, and fairly impressive.  The dozen fragmentary songs in the soundtrack aren't particularly well-integrated with the plot (versus, say, The Transformers The Movie).  "},{"Title":"I have a confession to make.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must confess.  I am an adult Digimon fan.I don't know how it happened.  I watched a few episodes and got hooked.  Now we're on Series Three in America and I figured I might as well rent the movie so I'm not completely lost.I will now reiterate something I said way back in my My Little Pony the Movie review.  This movie was marketed to a *very* specialized audience.  Probably, anyone who was meant to see a Digimon movie has already seen it, rendering this review pretty pointless.  Oh well.So what was the deal with all the plugs for (enter name of car company that sounds a little like Mars, duh)?  Overall, this movie was enjoyable if very episodic.  Part Two holds together the best. "}{"Title":"Pretty Perfect, for what it is","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Digimon the movie consist of four parts. The Angela Anaconda segment, the part in which they are young (pre-season one), four years ago (season one), and present day. Considering it's the first part of the movie, I'll start with the Angela Anaconda part. It's easily the worst part of this entire movie. Bad story, bad animation, bad characters, just bad. Then, to section us in from the end of Angela Anaconda to the start of digimon, we get a catchy song with the credits. I always liked this song and learned every word. Now, on to the Pre-Season One segment. This part shows the digidestined as little kids. There really is no point to this scene, but it's still one of the best parts of the movie. We see a digiegg go through every stage, from Botamon to Greymon. There are some good lines I this part that are funny every time. There is also a cool fight seen with Greymon and Parrotmon. Tai wakes him up with Kari's whistle, which is referenced later, albeit to a different WarGreymon. The next part of the movie is the Season One segment, which is the best part. A virus-infected digiegg hatches online and threatens all technology. This whole part is cool. It's got action, drama, comedy, and Omnimon. Tai's mom is the base of a lot of good jokes, and the cat does some funny stuff too. The Diaboromon clone fight is cool and I can watch it over and over. The final part is the Season Two part is the second worst part. Not to say it's bad, but it's not as good as the other parts (except Angela Anaconda). We see Terriermon and Kokomon and the inner struggle between Willis and the fact he has to destroy he own digimon. A lot more fight scenes in this part, but not as charming of characters. The highlights of this part are Yolei and Terriermon. Overall, I'd recommend this to people who watch the show, but other people not like it as much. I have literally watched this movie 4 times this week. That should put it in perspective. "},{"Title":"A disjointed mess","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'll get down to the nitty-gritty here. The Digimon Movie is awful. The story is a complete mess (even to me who is a fan of the anime) the movie is actually told through 3 mini-movies with the first one involving Tai, his sister Kari and the origins of his partner Greymon and seeing a wild bird attacking their home.For whatever reason, only Tai and Kari can only see the rampaging bird attacking their home. Only the Digi-Destined can. Confused enough already? The worst part to the first third of the movie is that this is never referenced in any part of the TV show (if you follow it that is) and it makes you wonder if it's cannon or not. It's hard to follow and it's nonsensical. The second part pits Tai and Izzy (and the rest of characters given lame reasons why they can't help Tai and Izzy >_>) and eradicating a computer virus. The only notable part to it was Omnimon and even that part I mentioned, is stretching it.The third part pits...zzz...and I'm bored enough with this movie already.At least in Pokemon The First Movie Ash Ketchum died. Nothing happened in The Digimon Movie. 2/10. Don't even bother with this. "},{"Title":"best TV shows as a kid.","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" quickie thoughts great movie if your a fan of the show. personal the first half is better for me. this movie really need a Re-release with a animation update but it wont because its not nostalgic show for kids from the 90s for most people i love this movie a lot of nostalgia with movie i used to like the whole movie but now i not a fan of the second half of the movie Worth the second gen of DigiDestined they were not as fun for me there more like a over the top version of the first gen DigiDestined. I'm still a big fan of the first half of the movie it still takes me back to being a kid seeing agumon and tai just brings joy seeing that they were still the hero's when they were kids i all so like that they can push them selves to become more then just the standard digivolving and these are my full thought on digimon the movie. "},{"Title":"Digi See! Digi Hear, Digi Know it was awful! This movie is a digital monster! It's a dreadful Digi mess.","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Hoping to replicate, the success of their first two Pokémon films, 20th Century Fox hope to distribute, yet another, of their Japanese anime own TV Series for the big screens. This time, it will be their Digimon Digital Monster franchise created by Akiyoshi Hongo. First produced by Toei Animation in cooperation with Bandai and Fuji Television in Japan. The show was later pick up by Fox Kids for distribute in the US, when their Pokémon show, became a big hit. While, the show is look upon, as a Pokémon clone or rip-off, the show is more influenced in style by the contemporary Tamagotchi or nano gigapets toys craze of the late 1990s. The TV Series tells the story of a group of pre-teens children who became the caretakers of Digital creatures that came to Earth from their Digital World; a parallel universe that was created by Earth's various communication networks. Technically, this movie claims, you don't need to watch the show, to enjoy this film. They say they will explain everything to new viewers. However, this movie did little to no explanations to those unfamiliar with the show. Yes, it did have some exposition dump, but there isn't a lot of time spent, explaining it all, to have the audience absorb what's going on. The movie excels in visual unnecessary action. Most of the film is this. Due to that, it fails to build any kind of emotional involvement with the characters, human or otherwise. The protagonists are given little to do other than explain the latest crisis then cheer on their respective Digimon when they fight. Scenes alternate between kitschy cuteness and spectacular violence, with only a nod toward plot, character development, and motivation. So if you came, across this movie, without seeing the show. You'll be deeply confused. Another fault about this movie is how it was made. Since, Toei Animation had no feature-length films for Digimon, but instead had smaller animation featurettes. The producers of this film, felt that three solo short films of the Digimon franchise could be combine into one film. It didn't work. Digimon The Movie had a significant degree of bad editing, with more than 40 minutes of scenes from the individual Japanese versions cut out to save time. The three films, used Digimon Adventure (1999), Our War Game! (2000), and Digimon Hurricane Touchdown! / Supreme Evolution! The Golden Digimentals (2000), were respectively 20, 40, and 60 minutes long, footage was condensed to fit 85 minutes. The last film included in the compilation, was heavily cut and reedited, because Saban Entertainment lacked the funding to produce a full two-hour movie. Due to this, the movie lack a cohesive narrative. That's one of the reasons the movie is so terrible. It has no arc, no connection between the three stories. You could pop on the movie at any point and have no idea if you're in the first act, or near the climax, or the resolution. In order to connect the stories of the different movies together, the adapting screenwriters place the film over a span of eight years, in which the movie chronicles the first appearance of the Digimon, the internet meltdown caused by another powerful Digimon, and last the fight between the whole cast of Digimon Monsters against a mysterious Digimon named Kokomon. The first act has nothing to do with the actual plot of the movie and serves nothing more than to introduce those who are not familiar with the Digimon franchise. The second act is possibly the heart and soul of this movie. Truly epic in scale, the movie's second act has both the thrills and deeper emotional. It's also smart. There is a nice subtext satiring society's dependence on technology and the dehumanizing effect of internet communication. It should have been the final act. Sadly, this movie had to end on an extremely weak note with the badly made third act. The animation is alright, but it's very different from the TV series. In fact, it follows more of the western animation conventions than Japanese anime. They seem to be a lack of detail in the artwork, with characters being just simple outlines with flat colors without even simple shadows or clothing folds. The characters' eyes are smaller with less of that anime shine, and the designs have been simplified somewhat. However, the animation movements is a lot more fluid and expressive. The movie tries a little to less Japanese, and more American. The culturally awkward Japanese elements were removed, and replaced by badly Americans stereotype ones. Due to this, a lot of the jokes fall flat. The movie even add an awkward American sounding pop rock eclectic soundtrack that felt distracting. Many of the pop tunes has little to no relation with the film, itself. Honestly, what does the song, 'All My Best Friends Are Metalheads' by Less than Jake, have to do with this Japanese anime!? The songs are effectively no help for the scenes they are coupled with. Some of the songs are so, overused, like All Star by Smash Mouth, The Rockafeller Skank by Fatboy Slim and One Week by the Barenaked Ladies. I'm kinda tired of seeing them, in all these late 1990's/early 2000s flicks. At least the music is catchy. It's better than the ear grating digi-rap that opens the film. It's also weird, that the movie opens with another cartoon, introducing it. A four-minute short film featuring animation characters from the Angela Anaconda (1999 to 2003) TV series appeared before the film in the theatrical and home media releases. Don't get me wrong, I love Angela Anaconda, but I found, this self-promoting a bit jarring. I get that Angela Anaconda was owned by Fox as well, but couldn't they just cut this part from the film or add it to the special features. Overall This movie is disappointing even for Digimon fan. Just stick to watching the show. It's better. "},{"Title":"A Film for the Dumpster.","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Digimon The Movie (2000) Dir Mamoru Hosoda, Minoru Hosoda, Shigeyasu Yamauchi / Voices Lara Jill Miller, Joshua Seth, Bob Glouberman, Brian Donovan, David Lodge Mirror image of Pokemon and frankly both films should be tossed in a trash compactor and forgotten. Digimon regards our world (which is a world uninhabited by the creators of Digimon) and the digital world. It opens with an egg hatching over the Internet and becoming a furry little creature that gets bigger and fights other Digimon creatures. Eventually the whole Internet is threatened by furry creatures chewing phone line data. Why do people create such junk and call it entertainment? Even the animation is about the lowest level of garbage that is just above drawing stick figures. There is absolutely no reason to see this film or allow your children to be subject to its bullshit. It is basically candy-coated violence aimed at children whose naïve parents are busy protecting them from films like American Psycho. It is always hilarious when conservative actions ignore violence packaged in these Pokemon rehashes. They are obviously lacking in media influence if they believe that this is harmless kids entertainment. It is aimed at the lowest common denominator written as a predictable and mindless farce and dreadful animation that should be flattened under a ton of bricks. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Digimon the Movie is a Digi-Dud","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I was a kid, I used to watch the Digimon TV series and I loved it. There were unique creatures such as Agumon, Gatomon, Tokomon and characters such as Tai, Sora, Izzy, TK, Mimi, Matt, and Joe. All was peaches and cream until Digimon the Movie came out 12 years ago. This film is actually a failed English dub of not one, not two, but THREE original Japanese Digimon movies! This film started with an obnoxious short featuring... Amanda Avocado? Anna Artichoke? Angelica Alligator? Oh! I remember now! Alexandra Alabama! No? Oh, Angela Anaconda! Okay, I don't like Angela Anaconda, but I don't dislike her either. However, don't you think it's weird for Digimon the Movie to start with Angela Anaconda and her friends going to see the movie? What's next, the Cast of Fairly Odd Parents rushing in to see Fred the Movie? Okay, I'll get on with the movie. What would be a bad way to start off the movie with? a god-awful rap version of the Digimon theme song perhaps? Pretty much.Like I said, this movie is a combination of the first three Digimon movies that came out in Japan. The first part is Digimon Adventure(Not to be confused with the Japanese name for the Digimon TV series), where Tai and his baby sister Kari meet a newly born Koromon. Through the course of this part, Koromon digivolves into Agumon and during the battle against Parrotmon, he transforms into a kick-butt Greymon, leading to a draw between Parrotmon and Greymon as they disappear back into the Digital World. Uh... Was that face-sucking scene necessary? That signifies either Koromon's friendly greeting or the fact that Koromon is trying to eat Tai and Kari's faces off like that Demon Mask in Inuyasha.The second part is Digimon Adventure Our War Game. This part involves this crazy Digimon named Apocalymon who makes all the electronics go haywire, only to be defeated by Omnimon in the end. The subplot involves Tai trying to send an apology e-mail to Sora but is unable to due to Apocalymon taking over his computer. However, in the end, Sora finally receives Tai's apology e-mail after the electronics return to normal. And for what, Tai vomiting in Sora's hat? That would be disgusting, but that's not something even I would hold a grudge against.The third and final part of the movie is Digimon Adventure 02 Hurricane Touchdown. This time, it involves the main heroes from Digimon Adventure 02(Which is part of the English version of Digimon) battling against a corrupted Digimon named Kokomon and ends it all in one of the most strangest and bizarre endings ever seen. Is it really necessary for a Smash Mouth song to be played at the end?And that's the whole movie for you. How was it you might ask? HORRENDOUS! The English version has destroyed Digimon with the character inconsistencies, corny jokes you'll only hear in pre-1980's Hannah-Barbera Cartoons, an awkward soundtrack, and the Angola Alamo short! Wait, did I say Angola Alamo, I meant to say Angela Anaconda. On the hand, the animation was kind of nice for a bad English version of three original Japanese Digimon movies combined.This movie is so awful and stupid it's like having 4kids TV editing three original Japanese One Piece movies to make One Piece The Movie featuring the same character inconsistencies, the same jokes from pre-1980's Hannah-Barbera cartoons, songs by the Black Eye Peas, Hannah Montana, The Jonas Brothers, Justin Beiber, The Cast of High School Musical, and Victorious mixed together with the crappy One Piece rap from the 4Kids TV version of One Piece at the beginning, and starting off the movie with the characters from Teenaged Mutant Ninja Turtles, Bratz, Winx Club, The Cramp Twins, Chaotic, The Back to the Future animated TV series, and Viva Pinata rushing in to see the same movie!And where is Fox Kids now? NOBODY KNOWS! All I can say is that Fox Kids has no right to butcher Digimon with this piece of digi-crap! You know what they say, Quality is better than Quantity. And that's all, digi-folks! "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but an enjoyable adaptation of an anime show that I onced like as a child","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Aside from watching some episodes from a great anime show called Pokemon I saw another show that came out before the later Yugioh known as Digimon. When I saw some of the episodes, I actually liked the show along with it's later seasons. It was like a mix between Tron and Pokemon with some great digital devices that can transform little creatures into huge monsters. So, when I heard that 20th Century Fox was going to make a movie out of the show, I saw it and I liked as a kid.As an adult, I still love it and I would consider it also underrated (just like Yugioh The Movie). It's not great by any means, but it's a pretty good film. However, there are some flaws that I might add. First one is the animation. It had some nice colorful backgrounds, but it's editing was somewhat clunky for itself. Second and third are the rushed pacing and it's lack of storytelling (despite it's decent enough premise). I guess they kind of focused the action with the monsters and had little time to develop the characters.On the bright side, it had some very decent characters, some great new digital monsters (Omnimon was my favorite digital monster due to the heart and belief of all the people from their e-mails), some great action, and a great soundtrack (with my favorite being the Digi-Rap). The voice acting for this movie is pretty decent. Not great, but still good.Overall, Digimon The Movie isn't a masterpiece, but not as bad as some say it is. I'm sure younger kids will like it if they can watch the show as well as anybody in the anime manga genre. In short, flawed, but a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Great film... for the first 50 minutes.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I watched the Digimon Movie when I was a kid and loved it. I watched it a couple days ago and loved it...Except for the second half. What the hell was wrong with the second half? The movie was all dramatic and epic about a deadly virus and the end of the world and the 'ultimate Digimon' but then it went to complete crap of 7 pussy Digimon saying puns while fighting a stupid looking monkey Digimon with guns on its chest. And a stupid big oaf and a blonde boy dancing to the overly used 'All-Star' song by Smash Mouth.But I give it a 9 for the amazing first half. You can tell that the first and second half must have been written by different people, for the first half seems to be intense and interesting. Unlike the second half.I'm going to pretend the last 30 minutes of this movie never existed. "},{"Title":"Hmmm....","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I was under pressure from my little brother to see Digimon, which, I thought was actually tolerable.  I mean, the animation is a step above regular anime, and along the lines of the TV show... Also, I did the research and for those of you who said that this was a rip of Pokemon... well... you do know that this came out before Pokemon in Japan, right? You didn't?  Heh.. I'm surprised... "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was walking around a video rental store, when I happened upon this tape. It just so happened that it was on the movie network later that night. So, I watched it. Now, normally, I don't like the series much, if at all, but the movie really surprised me. The movie's story is about a digimon that in and of itself is a computer virus, which begins to replicate, and while doing so, hacking into a military base's computer system, and launching missiles, setting a 10 minute countdown to impact. Now, by hacking into the military base, and spreading through the internet, he's disabled all missile interceptors. One of the missiles is aimed at the neighbourhood of one of the Digidestined, who is frantically trying to stop this virus. When they succeed, the missiles are disabled, and don't explode. A few years down the road, a new Digidestined is being constantly pursued by a monster digimon, which we later find out was of his creation. The digimon wants him to go back to the beginning, and with the help of some friends, figures out that the digimon was infected by a virus during his creation, and needs his help to rid himself of it. He and his friends use their digimons' combined power to help it, and ultimately succeed. This movie boasts smooth animation, and great visuals which make the movie all the more fun to watch.  "}{"Title":"I love Pokemon!!!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Pokemon & have loadsa videos, toys, posters, the N64 & Gb games etc etc.....and I'm 26 years old!I first saw a Digimon episode on daytime TV & hated it...thinking it to be a really bad Pokemon Clone....so it was with grinding teeth that I rented the movie....and now I love Digimon too!I have bought a load of vids on ebay & am seeking out allt he toys and have bought the (substandard) PS game...It is aimed at kiddies, but it's fun for an hour or so of watching!Try it, you might just like it! "},{"Title":"Pure trash and this is coming from a Digimon Fan","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I heard about Digimon the movie back in 2000 I was excited but wasn't able to see it in the theater, but I'm sure glad I didn't.  When I rented it on video I was blown away at how cheap the animation looked.  Sure it's more fluid then digimon the show and the characters had the less cartoony fell of the show but this doesn't mean that it is better.  Then there was the stupid music that had nothing to do in with the  movie.  The people behind the american version of the movie thought that if they got a bunch of songs that were popular at the time then they could sell more CDs for the movie which is just to Pokemon. But what really got me mad about the whole thing was that it turns out that it is three different movies that have nothing to with one another  that are between 30 to 60 minutes long and they just butchered all three so that it could be 82 minutes long.  So scenes were deleted and a whole sub-plot in the last section of the movie was erased so that it doesn't mess with the dumb story line written by Saban.  To finish this off did they really have to put that stupid angela anaconda short at the beginning that was just utter pointlessness and just made me want to cry.  I love Digimon the Show but I hate the Plot hole that was the movie.  "},{"Title":"The Goldberg of animation","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I say that this film is the Goldberg of animation because if you think about it, like Goldberg of WCW, he is just a rip off of Stone Cold Steve Austin of the WWF, and in animation terms it is Pokemon.  And believe me, I am not even a big Pokemon fan, but throughout this film, I yearned for it like a coke addict yearns for it's fix.  Because, when I thought that possibly Thomas and the Magic Railroad was the worst film of the year, I was wrong. This takes the cake.  The story follows kids who have monsters in there computers and they have battles inside and sometimes the monsters can be stopped down by constant e-mail.  Ok, maybe kids will find this a good movie, if they had any respect for the TV show.  But hopefully they can do the parents a favor by not dragging them to this pathetic, rip-off that leaves a bad taste in your mouth, and I don't just mean the used soda. F "},{"Title":"Slightly overrated","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well I have to admit, when I watched the movie in 2000 (when I was 11), I was obsessed with it. But since I've aged I've come to decide that this movie is pretty poor. I think it was slightly tacky and unfair to Americans and other non-Japanese speaking companies that they had to wait for all 3 Japanese movies to be released before this film was made. I also think compacting 3 movies together confused a little, and people could easily get confused. 3 very similar story lines in one film can cause utter confusion.I think it's better than the Pokemon movies though, because the storyline has more depth to it, and the voice actors are of a higher standard, and less whiney than in Pokemon.In conclusion, I think the film could've been a lot better, though I may be biased as it is not for my age group anymore. "},{"Title":"Second part was the best","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen this movie numerous times, and found it to be an interesting part of the Digimon storyline.  However, not every part of this movie was worth writing home about.  While the first two segments expanded on plots mentioned in the TV show, the third movie was one big void.  No episode since then has mentioned the events of that segment, and it's the only part of the movie that we don't know when it takes place.  We know the first part takes place 4 years prior to Season 1, and the events of this segment are shown in flashbacks during the episode Return to Highton View Terrace. We also know that the second part of the film takes place shortly after Season 1, although the events after the last episode of Season 1 have not been clarified, so we don't have an exact point of reference.  Finally, the third part seems to have just been thrown in to show the Season 2 cast, pre-Ken's conversion to the good side.Now that I've finished that part, I'd like to say that the second segment, called Our War Game in Japan, was my favorite part.  Even if the concept was a bit hokey (It's Digimon, the whole concept is hokey if you think about it.), it still was written extremely well.  It also answered the question we've all been asking When will someone attack them while they're Digivolving?  All in all, I rate the segments of this film as follows Favorite Segment 2 Our War Game, followed by Segment 1 (can't remember the title in Japan), and then Segment 3 (also can't remember the title!). "},{"Title":"Gouge your eyes out, amputate your arms, have a cyanide cocktail, but whatever you do don't see this movie!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this movie with somewhat high hopes. The television show's pretty good and I figured maybe the movie won't be so bad.I was dead wrong. It is basically Pokemon with computer lingo. Both have assorted neon technicolour monsters that shoot fireballs lightening, etc.The kids, who once had an inkling of personality, are transformed into stereotypical single celled personalities. (The leader, the rebel, the kid, the rich kid, the possible love interest, etc.) The movie lurches forward, jumping clumsily from eight years ago to four years to the present, to a conclusion so predictable that any five-year-old could see coming. My advice, see one of the first two Batman flicks. They're a better example of taking a poplar medium and transferring it to a completely different one.  "},{"Title":"It's not terrible?","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I begin this review with a question because this movie is an oddity. I'll get to that in a second. First off, let me say that I have never seen any of the Japanese versions of the films, so I can't compare them and I won't try. That leads me to the second point I would like to make if you didn't know, this film is actually three separate Japanese films edited into one American version.That's what makes this film odd. All the faults lie with the editing, dubbing, scripting... basically all the American added elements (surprise surprise, right?). The animation in the film(s) is great I'm not sure who did the art direction, but it's drastically different from the series' animation, which I always found stiff and repetitive (which, again, might be the result of American editing). The animation in the movies is smooth, dynamic, stylish, and very action packed. It can be compared to the animation in FLCL or the animation in select episodes of Naruto (such as the showdown between Naruto and Sasuke). Everything sort of flows. The character models are a bit more distorted, and it uses darker/cooler color shadings. The overall effect is very good and entertaining.Unfortunately, the superb action and animation direction is moot when put beside the HORRIBLE dubbing. Saban, like 4Kids is wont to do, chose to drastically alter the original script and writing. Often, side-comments will be added to the dialog for no real reason except, possibly, to cram more dialog into a scene. The jokes are often flat, and distract from the main plot instead of adding to it. If you want a good example of this, watch any of the One Piece episodes translated by 4Kids (i.e. the ones with the crappy rap song opening). It's awful. Thank God Funimation took that show over, but I digress.Speaking of plot, it's bad. Let me clarify the plot for the first two sequences (Greymon vs. Parrotmon and the first digidestined vs. Diaboromon/Infermon) is actually good, mainly because it's simple. As stand alone movies, the plot would be fine. However, when combined together with the third sequence/film (featuring the digidestined from season 2 vs. a new digimon named Endigomon), it's bad. Real bad. The connections between each movie are tenuous at best, and terribly explained.And don't get me started on the third movie. The third movie, in which everything is explained and the plot comes together has been edited to hell. There is no continuity, and everything is pretty nonsensical. If you can get any enjoyment from this segment of the film, congratulations. I was just confused, because the scenes have been chopped up and thrown together again. There is no logical flow of action from scene to scene.So, if I was to make a one word value assessment of this film, it would be bad. Not terrible. It has some redeeming qualities. I would say it's better than, say, the Yu-Gi-Oh movie. "},{"Title":"not so bad","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that this movie wasn't that bad, i didn't mind it but i just think it is very similar to Pokemon. I think that people got into Pokemon more than Digimon. This movie was made in 2000. I give this movie 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Actually 3 movies in one.","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is no secret by now that this so called movie based on the famous Digimon anime series is actually a combination of 3 separate Digimon OVA short films. Remember what Robotech did with Macross, Southern Cross and Mospeada? Digimon the movie does the same, only with less effort made to keep up the illusion of the 3 separate stories being 1 coherent tale. While long time fans will cry foul of the show once they hear of the numerous cuts made to the original OVAs, the American Digimon the movie never did aim for the otakus. The target audience for this movie is no doubt the kids who have watched Saban's adaptation of the Digimon anime series.On first viewing, it is easy to mistake this show for an actual made in America animated movie. The art and animation style is very different from the TV series and in fact follows more of the western animation conventions than Japanese anime. For example, the level of detail in the artwork is painfully low, with characters being just simple outlines with flat colors without even simple shadows or clothing folds. The characters' eyes are smaller with less of that anime shine, and the designs have been simplified somewhat. However, the animation is a lot more fluid and expressive. Movements are shown in full with little of the usual cost cutting measures that anime uses such as repeating stock footage or panning the camera over a still background. Not exactly movie level animation, especially when compared to other theatrical animated movies, but nonetheless satisfactory.The combination of Three OVAs naturally translate to 3 loosely connected acts told from the narrative standpoint of Kari, one of the main characters. The first act taking place eight years ago, details the first encounter between the Kamiya siblings, Tai and Kari, and digimon. One day a mysterious egg appears from out of their computer and soon hatches into a cute bubble blowing creature. The children decide to keep it while not letting their parent find out, but the creature mutates overnight into a more monstrous lizard-like form. What follows is a devastating battle in the streets of their neighborhood between two ferocious Digimon, a battle only hinted at in the TV series.Now this first act seems rather unnecessary. It has nothing to do with the actual plot of the movie and serves nothing more than to introduce those who are not familiar with the Digimon franchise to the Kamiya siblings and a few core concepts. A very refreshing thing was the re-interpretation of Digital Monsters as scary monstrous beasts, a stark contrast to their less threatening portrayal in the TV series.THe second act is possibly the heart and soul of this movie. Four years after the Kamiyas' first digimon encounter and a short time after the events of the first Digimon TV series, Izzy the computer genius discovers a computer virus that is actually an evolving digimon. As Tai and Izzy race to gather the digidestined for one final battle, their digimon buddies must enter the internet and destroy the virus digimon before it becomes too powerful. The stakes get raised once the virus, calling itself Diaboromon, hacks into servers all over the world turning all computers crazy. Society gets thrown into chaos and the technology that even the digidestined take for granted, such as emails and telephone, now becomes the source of their downfall.Truly epic in scale, Digimon The movie's second act has both surface level thrills and deeper emotional themes. There is a nice subtext satiring society's dependence on technology and the dehumanizing effect of internet communication (a theme that director Mamoru Hosoda expounded upon in 2010's Summer Wars anime movie). It is in this segment where the English script shines the most. Witty in-jokes and word puns pepper the energetic dialog delivered by a fine cast of voice actors who masterfully grow into their roles.So enjoyable was the Diaboromon segment, right up to its awesome climax involving a brand spanking powerful new digimon taking on gazillions of diaboromon clones, that it is regrettable that Digimon The Movie had to end on an extremely weak note.The third segment takes place in present day and it involves the remnants of the diaboromon virus from four years ago returning and infecting a digimon called Kokomon. Kokomon is one half of a set of twins. He and his twin brother Terriermon belonged to an American kid called Willis. The digidestined from the Digimon season 2 get drawn into this conflict as Kokomon becomes increasingly powerful. But unknown even to them, is that Willis' digimon twins are somehow connected to the Kamiya's first digimon encounter 8 years ago and Diaboromon's emergence four years ago.This act is where it all falls apart. Not only is it the weakest in terms of story and its link to the previous two acts, but the writing seems rushed. Jokes that were supposed to sound timely and witty end up being really out of place and only serve to spoil the otherwise serious tone of the show. As the act reaches its climax, the editing done to the scenes becomes even more slip shod leaving many gaping plot holes. Even the battle sequences have been edited to the point of incoherence. And that ending? All too sudden and honestly, a little freaky especially when taken in context with the music.Whether a change for the better or worse, the music incorporates many American pop tunes that, save for one, effectively complements the scenes they are coupled with. At least the catchy music is a good distraction from the ear grating digi-rap that opens the film and the other shortcomings of the movie.Fans of Digimon, especially the Japanese digimon series, would undoubtedly give this a miss. It is recommended however that one at least watch the second act of this movie just for the fun of it. "},{"Title":"Better than expected, but kids are more likely to enjoy it than adults.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" DigimonThe Movie was one of those movies, that I thought I wasn't going to enjoy. Anyway, I watched it with low expectations, and it was better than I expected it to be. Maybe the pivotal factors of my fear that it wasn't going to be good, is because I am not a huge fan of the TV show, and that I did not like PokemonThe First Movie. I did enjoy most of it, but it is mediocre as a film. The animation is mostly good, and true to the show, and the voice talents on the whole were dynamic and expressive, and aided by some good dialogue. The characters are likable,even the villains were adequate, and there are one or two thrilling action sequences. Sadly, there are some factors that let it down. I am still not receptive to the title song, and whereas the film starts off fine, the last 20 minutes are rushed, and are highly suggestive of two or three episodes thrown together. There were also some parts in the story that were underdeveloped. While mediocre, Digimon certainly isn't a terrible movie, it just isn't a great one either. 5/10 Bethany Cox. "}{"Title":"And I thought Pokemon was bad?!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OH MY GOD!!! My 5-year-old-sister and 10-year-old-brother rented this from the DVD place. I think I like Jack the Ripper and Ted Bundy more than the creators of this movie, if you can call it that. I didn't watch it, if I did I probably would have committed suicide sometime during the first ten minutes but it was playing on the background and I got to see a few minutes or so. Talk about bad! The plot of this movie was a bunch of kids saving the world from a computer-virus-mon, or whatever. The animation- I have no idea how people call it great. Basically one big constant giant headache. At least there's something about Pokemon, that I dunno- it's cuter. 'Course it's still a load of trash too. All this Japanese mon-ending stuff is generated towards one cause and one cause only--- money, money, money. Parents beware!!! If it ends with 'mon' it's gonna end with aspirin pills and a psychiatrist.  "},{"Title":"A terrible combination of three good movies.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ah, Hollywood. Land of greed and bandwagons. Anyway, whoever decided to put three Digimon movies together and release it as one big movie should be arrested on crimes against humanity. I'm a Digimon fan, and I hated this. I guess I should explain why, at least.First off, in order to fit it in at a normal American time limit, tons of plot had to go. This is especially evident in movie 3, where *SPOILER* a good subplot with six of the original Digidestined were turned into toddlers */SPOILER* was cut off, and as a result, later parts make very little sense. Also, they added plot elements from the other movies into parts of this in order to give it a more sequential feel. In the original, Diaboramon was only in movie 2, Wallace was only in movie 3, and as far as I can tell, in the grand scheme of things, movie 1 had NOTHING to do with movie 2 and 3.Take it from me, this thing is a disaster. I'd rather have a hundred simultaneous root canals than watch this disaster again. However, the original three movies were good, so I reccomend hunting them down somehow. Don't settle for the worst thing ever piped out of a bandwagon; namely, this movie.ONE STAR. "},{"Title":"Worse than a TV Episode, No New CGI, Horrible.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am an avid fan of the little monster scene.  Actually I like Pokemon, Digimon and Monster Rancher and watch each whenever I can.  I was excited when this came out, and actually convinced my Husband to come out and watch it. (He's a big fan of Weregargumon)..We came into the theater on a Sunday night, sat and watched the first 10 minutes, a HORRIBLE Amanda Anaconda short..  we were praying that this isn't part of the Movie..Eventually the Movie began..  The scene where they go back to the beginning was well done,  However from there it just got worse and worse.  Wondering if they ran over budget early.  The whole attack with the computer virus digimon was almost painful to watch.  I was hoping and expecting cool CGI scenes, and that moment would have been perfect for it.  but we got real cheesy looking backgrounds and the well used (and abused) vid screen look when the human characters interacted with the digimon on the Internet.As for the Digimon Characters, they often went from well drawn and shadowed figures, to obviously quickly sketched and colored scenes.  I think they used scraps of episodes cut out from the TV series and re-used them for the movie, and quickly sketched when they had to patch up the holes.The character Interaction was funny at times. you will get a giggle or 2 from it.The movie did contain some realistic and beautiful scenes.  But it just felt incomplete, and drowned out with very sloppy ones. I give this movie an overall 1 because they should have held it in production a lot longer and finished it.There was nothing digital about this Movie. The CGI scenes were the exact same as the TV series. This could have been ALOT Better. FOX, I am Ashamed you released this movie as it is.  I am a Digimon Fan and this was Butchered together.I suggest you Save your $$ and get this one on Video.  but even then you'll be disappointed.  This was BAD!!`` MoonLight `` "},{"Title":"Digimon AREN'T the champions!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Eww. I thought that something like this would be cool, but that's what you get for thinking. The animation is slightly better than the TV show (which doesn't even look like quality anime). Sadly, though, that's where everything goes downhill. Saban has apparently Americanized the movie to a ridiculous extent (don't forget, Saban also made Power Rangers!). And I thought Pokémon had a problem with repeated prefixes. Every digi-thing the digi-characters digi-say has to digi-have digi- before every word. Don't waste your money, folks. Just buy some cheap soda and popcorn and you're ready to leave this cheesy rip-off of Pokémon. 0.005/10 "},{"Title":"Digi see this c**p","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Digimon is the biggest rip off of pokemon. You might be asking if I hate digimon why did I see the movie well I'm a big fan of anime and love pokemon so I thought I would give it a chance, and then become really disappointed. The only thing that  was good about the movie was the  animation, the rest really was bad so bad that I didn't stay to see the last 20 minutes. "}]