[{"Title":"Great","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"65 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Call me an soppy silly man, but I loved this movie. I loved every sentimental sugar-coated silly second of it. I don't believe in life after death and I think near death experiences are hallucinations, but this movie grabbed hold of me and didn't let go. I was genuinely surprised and touched by the ending. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise falls flat in final acts","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"49 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There is something strange about 'Dragonfly'. It is not a thriller in its subject but it deals with it as if it's a thriller. Even more strange, in some scenes it actually succeeds in that. I mean, when your wife has died and she is trying to reach you from the other side is something else than simply seeing dead people. Your wife probably has the best intentions and although it is creepy you do not have to be scared of your dead wife. I guess. The man who thinks his dead wife is trying to reach him is Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner). Is he going mad, a premise for a dramatic film, or is he really connecting to the other side?At times where his wife is communicating with Joe, at least to Joe's knowledge, the film breaths a creepy atmosphere with a cinematography and score that make things suspenseful. But the film does not have its focus on whether Joe is going mad or not, but on how scary it is when a dead person talks to you. That there is actually suspense shows that there is some nice film-making to be found here. The premise is interesting, although not that new, but especially the final act in the film goes wrong at crucial points. There is a moment where I thought the film was over, I will not reveal where, but at that time certain things were left in the middle. It felt like the right ending. But then the film continues, providing it with an ending that must have popped into many heads from the audience, probably dismissed by a lot for being too ridiculous.Still, the premise and the first hour are good enough to keep us entertained and although it should not work as a thriller, it does. Watching it like that without thinking too much could help you like this film in one way or another. "},{"Title":"Well acted and surprising","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"45 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  From the info on the DVD cover, I thought this was a going to be a science fiction/horror movie. I was pleasantly surprised at what this was actually about. The plot twist in the film is wonderful. Kevin Costner and the rest of the cast do a convincing and thoroughly enjoyable job with this unique premise. This film reminded me more of a Field of Dreams than a Poltergeist kind of movie. The cast is revealing. Ron Rifkin (Alias) was a great foil to Mr. Costner. Linda Hunt is perfect in the small role she plays. The director, Mr. Shadyac, seems to have broken out of the comedy mode (Liar, Liar; Ace Ventura) in a big and interesting way here. This is a good one to see if you aren't into horror movies and want something that stirs the little grey cells...I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just Right","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is an awesome movie.  It is just right for Kevin Costner.  If I had a doctor like him, I would actually go to see one.  The story is touching and beautiful.  I love it from beginning to end.  I wish others could appreciate this film as much as everybody I know, including myself, did.  I'm not a real fan of spooky movies, but this was different.  It was hauntingly beautiful. I would recommend seeing this on a cold, cloudy day, snuggling with your heart's desire. "},{"Title":"2.5 - 3 Star Review, Content Over Form","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"44 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Setting aside several brilliant, but slashing technophile reviews, the experience of the story is more important than the mechanics, or the fact that several trendy notions have been graphed together.  I don't care that it is New Age, Old Age, Stone Age... whatever.  I don't even care that Costner doesn't seem to know where anything is going.  I don't care if the director knew either.  This is a story about the spirit of the only person absent from the film.  The thing that drives the fictional Emily in the fictional tale is more compelling than anything else.  What mother would not defy death to see this plot to conclusion?  The broader message is most uplifting, the very powerful, spiritual, magical force that is love.  It isn't too difficult to mine this treasure from the mud.  Overall, I found the story very interesting and it survives the mediocrity of dialog and implausibility of the doctor's behavior at the hospital.  The movie is even better on the second viewing. Sue me, but I really liked it. "},{"Title":"Much more than expected.","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Many may think they know the ending, but they will be suprised.  This is a beautiful film with much more depth and understanding than initially appears.  If you think it is going to be an average hollywood ghost story, think again. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly Tender","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If you check your cynicism at the door, Dragonfly is astonishing in its tenderness.  It's beautifully shot (Dean Semler of Dances with Wolves and Waterworld) and well-acted.  It's a refreshing alternative to the testosterone-driven films like John Q, Collateral Damage and myriad war movies like We Were Soldiers.  Kevin Costner is inexplicably Hollywood's whipping boy but he still manages to make varied, provocative choices in his projects.  While I wanted to resist the heart-tug of the ending, I found I simply couldn't.  If you let it, Dragonfly will take you someplace sweet. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable supernatural tale.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Given that films are generally produced as an entertainment medium, and are not produced for the arty fraternity amongst us, I found this film an entertaining ride with a surprise ending. Kevin costner has never been my favourite actor, but credit where it is due he has produced some good work over the years and this film was for me, one of his better efforts and I thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish.****** POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD ******Ok, the wife going off an a trip to the jungle whilst six months pregnant is unlikely, but hey.....people do stranger things in life ? don't they ? it is the viewers imagination that this film is aimed at, and those viewers that don't have one will struggle to appreciate this film. I interpreted this movie to be the living part of the sixth sense and from that point of view, I thought it was well carried out. If I were to examine every little detail of the film I could no doubt (as other reviewers have done) find things that don't quite add up. But I won't do that, because I could do it with every other film that has been made with the same result.Summary. Very good film and well worth a look. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Although using many clichés, the plot is romantic and the story is beautiful","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Dr. Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) is a recently widowed doctor. He is grieving due to the death of his pregnant wife in a Red Cross mission in Venezuela. Although being atheist, he began to believe that his dead wife wants to communicate with him, through her young patients in the Pediatrics of a Chicago hospital. Although using many clichés, the plot is romantic and the story is beautiful. However, the time taken by Joe Darrow to find out the meaning of the symbol is amazingly long for such an obsessed and intelligent character. Further, while his wife tries to contact him through the almost dead persons, the story is OK. But if she had the capacity of telekinesis, why not give him a clear written message? My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Mistério da Libélula (The Mystery of the Dragonfly) "},{"Title":"A Good Thriller.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Dragonfly was a good thriller movie and was very well written. Kevin   Costner and Kathy Bates were good. The movie did bore   you a little at times, but in the ending the story picks up and flows   greatly. The movie is about Joe (Kevin Costner), a doctor whose wife   dies in a bus accident in a foreign country while working for the Red   Cross.When she dies, Joe is devastated, and works overtime at the   hospital, and is uncomfortable staying at his own house with his wife's   menacing bird. But then, Joe finds that children dying at the hospital   have seen his wife when they are near death, like a young boy named   Jeffrey who is at the hospital for cancer. Now, Joe must find what his   wife wants him to find.     This movie was interesting and good. I give Dragonfly a 9 out of 10. ) "}{"Title":"Turgid after-life thriller","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Stubborn doctor Kevin Costner is supposed to be a non-believer in the after-life, yet in a flashback sequence right near the beginning, he talks with his wife about what life-form she wants to take after death. You can tell something is definitely off right about here; the picture doesn't know where to aim, and ends up firing at a myriad of targets. There's a bird who never talked to anyone but Costner's deceased wife (it later flies amok in the kitchen, with Costner calling out, Big Bird!), and poor child actors in a hospital sequence who try to convince Dr. Kevin that they've talked to the lady from beyond (seems they saw her in the rainbow and she flew them back). It's AMAZING that screenwriter David Seltzer managed to sell this thing. It's even more stunning that Kevin Costner, Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt attempted to make it work; they are overly-earnest in an assembly-line thriller so formulaic we even get the scene where hard-working Dr. Kevin is severely reprimanded for visiting sick kids by the hospital administrator. It's the same scene you've seen a million times before, mostly between a hard-nosed cop and the desk sergeant. * from **** "},{"Title":"Why Dark Knight rate 9 and Dragonfly only 6 ?","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I don't want to speak about this lovely movie too much. The story is simple, but the actors and the acting are great. The ending is surprising in a good way and the atmosphere of the film is very well realized.I write this review because I wonder how low is the medium IQ of the regular voters on IMDb ? How can they rate a idiotic movie like Dark Knight 9, ranking the 10th movie of all times !!!, and a decent film like this only 6 ? Maybe because there are no special effects , no lame actor died shortly after filming, and the romance is no more appreciated. Few years ago you can rely on the IMDb ranking, but now you can miss many good movies and go see a lot of rubbish, if you consider the vote from present site.If you are a little bit romantic, see this film, you will like it. "},{"Title":"Not Kevin Costner's Best Work","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The ending was the best part of this movie.  The twist in the ending gives some credibility to the journey of the lead character, but Kevin Costner's character exhibited characteristics one would not expect of a doctor, let alone head of the emergency room.  This gave Costner's character less credibility throughout where even the good twist at the end couldn't salvage it.  There were also some relationships that could have been better developed.  This movie seemed to focus primarily on Kevin Costner's character through placing utmost importance on his perspective when development would have been better achieved through more insightful development of the relationships that support him.  For example, the character's relationship with his supervisor could have been less cold, maybe reflected more of a complex camaraderie.  I believe these relationships (the supervisor, Kathy Bates as the next-door neighbor) could have offered more insight into the relationship between Joe Darrow and his wife Emily than was reflected in the film.All in all, I was disappointed with the film.  It had a great premise that needed a deeper message, a stronger pull throughout the film.  It's best asset was the twist at the end.  I like Kevin Costner as an actor, but this didn't seem to challenge him enough. "},{"Title":"At the very least, an EIGHT here for Costner","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I find it bemusing that this flick is rated below 6 by the several thousands who have voted. Despite the fact that at my age, 86 and counting, I cannot hear, therefore must rely on closed captions and totally miss the music score as well, and my dimming visual capacity further delimits my perceptions and appreciations, I found this venture both adventurous AND trailblazing, as in the psychic realm. Who among us has NEVER 'experienced' a qualm or quivering at some point in his or her life? I mean the wonder at whether or no there lies something beyond our physical ken. And whereas the protagonist's seemingly incredible finding of his own little daughter in an Andean rainforest is both 'corny' and 'happy ending,' was it not an altogether LOVELY cinematic experience? It continues to be evident, to me at least, that the great bulk of the public out there continues to labor under the conventional wisdoms of the ethnocultural majority, which, to me, is slavery of the worst esthetic variety. Kevin Costner, take a bow here, along with the writers and producers. "},{"Title":"This one slipped out of the net, I'm afraid.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner is a Hollywood enigma.  No one seems to like him since Dances With Wolves yet he has major movie after major movie green-lighted with his name attached.  SOMEWHERE he must have fans, but they apparently stayed away from this film (and several of his other recent ones.)  Here he plays a doctor whose pregnant wife (Thompson) is killed in an avalanche/bus accident while volunteering in the jungle.  A lifelong disbeliever in the traditional assumptions about the afterlife, he finds himself challenged by a series of eerie, sometimes unbelievable events.  He bounces ideas off of his pragmatic, but concerned neighbor (Bates) and works overtime trying to make heads or tails out of the confusing signals he thinks he is getting from Thompson (but may also be making up in his grief-stricken mind.)  The film has a fair amount of atmosphere and a couple of minor thrills along the way, but ultimately it winds up being not only improbable, but downright preposterous!  It's not that what happens at the climax couldn't happen, it's just handled in such a ridiculous way that it blows any sense of reality away.  Costner (who is, before the eyes of the world, morphing into Sam Neill) does an adequate job.  His usual monotone speaking voice does mar certain sections of the film, but he also injects enough emotion at times, to make up for it somewhat.  Bates (at possibly her most enormous of all time) is endearingly matter-of-fact.  Hunt pops up briefly (and hilariously) as a somewhat mysterious nun.  One major problem is that most of the people in the film do not behave the way real humans behave.  It's all very contrived and by-the-numbers in order to move the plot along.  Also, the director telegraphs things to the point of ridiculousness.  (He wisely made some cuts - available on the DVD - that would have spoiled the ending for even more people than before if they'd have been left in.  As it stands, some people will be surprised by the resolution.)  Thompson has some lovely moments as the wife, but her relationship with Costner is sketchy at best, robbing the audience of a true emotional core to the story.  (Her very first scene is horribly melodramatic and phony, though.)  There's bound to be an audience for this type of film, the people that love metaphysical, romance-conquers-all, type of things.  Cynics are going to hate it, especially as it nears it's end.   "},{"Title":"Scriptwriting?","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a wonderful study of bad scriptwriting, from the amateurish exposition (Kathy Bates I know because I'm a law school professor), to the silly self-awareness (Susanna Thompson I'm going to a disease infested, primitive jungle village while I'm six months pregnant, because that's who I am!); to the 20 scenes of exactly 5 minutes each, to the obvious (shocking?) ending.Ho hum. "},{"Title":"An Original Story Told Too Slowly","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner tends to linger on the screen to tell his character's stories.  This has not been too aggravating for me and especially just renting videos.  I liked Waterworld which I rented (or taped ...) and JFK which I saw at the theater.  I even sat through Dances With Wolves which I did not care for.Unfortunately this movie just does not get off the ground.  There are some rather irritating hospital scenes grafted right of ER.  The film should not be confused with a horror film, it is strictly drama. "},{"Title":"Simply Horrible!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I really can't believe I actually wasted 2 hours of my life to see Kevin Costner ridiculously, some big clichés about ghost stories (some scenes are really cut-and-pasted from the absolutely wonderful The Sixth Sense), a horrible storyline and much more! It's just out of my capacity to imagine how ANYONE could like a movie like this! The ending made me berserk! What the hell is going there? It's really possible that someone could make a movie like this?I really think Dragonfly SuX. Maybe the only positive aspect about this flick is Kathy Bates' acting. Apart from that, just run away from the movies AS FAST AS YOU CAN!!! "},{"Title":"Just didn't like it","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  But maybe I would have if Kevin Costner has shown a little EMOTION.Sure, he cried, but those tears never quite flowed down his face. Sure, he got angry, but never enough for a vein to pop out in his forehead.He just didn't show enough distress to make me care about his situation. (SPOILER---> I think he didn't once mention the baby being gone too). It was just . . . flat.  A time killer and not one to be recommended. "},{"Title":"Genuine effort falls flat","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly attempts to deliver the message that belief will get you there. Unfortunately, the film doesn't deliver. It falls flat. This is a shame because director Tom Shadyac put in a genuine effort.It's interesting that a Hollywood studio would let a comedy director take on such a serious dramatic story. Sometimes a fresh approach allows for a film to hit the mark, but not this time. After listening to Shadyac's feature-length commentary on the DVD release, it's obvious he understands the material (while promoting his next comedy feature with Jim Carey - how annoying), but he couldn't translate this to the screen.Firstly, we don't get enough backstory to really appreciate the strength of Joe's (a strong performance by Kevin Costner) love for his wife, and the resulting emotional turmoil he is currently experiencing now that she is believed dead.Secondly, there are wasted performances by Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt in small roles. Their performances are strong, and while their characters are significant to the story being told, they are too small. They could have been written to be more instrumental to the story.Thirdly, there are too many cliches such as the very-mature-for-their-age-dying-of-cancer-children. Another would be the hospital administrator. Perhaps Shadyac forgot that everyone has seen all of this on TV's ER, and should have put together more creative minds to try and tell this aspect of the story differently.And lastly, and the most obvious, is the amount of additional footage that went into the production. There is an entire, major scene that was shot afterwards and inserted into the film, and it's so glaringly obviously that it ends up detracting from the story.  The following isn't intended to be a spoiler to the ending of the film, but read at your own risk. The scene where Joe dies underwater in the bus and is then pulled to shore where he comes to, was a new scene. The scene itself is well-produced and definately adds action to the story. But the following scene has Joe running full-tilt through the forest with no apparent discomfort or distress, and still relatively well-coiffed. Not very likely for someone that had just flat-lined from drowning. Had director Shadyac re-shot a bit more to show Joe running with obvious physical distress, this would have added more much-needed realism to the surprise ending, which is worth hanging around for. "}{"Title":"Left me grumpy","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  During this film, I remarked to my wife that if Kevin Costner ever developed facial expressions, he'd probably be a hot Hollywood commodity.  And yet, tragically, poor Mr. Costner's wooden mien seems just right for this tedious freshman let's-try-to-make-everyone-tense exercise.What is apparently meant to be an atmospheric thriller never gets off the starting line, thanks to the overwrought, distant script. Everyone in the film talks about stuff -- about the odd signs and symbols and possible visitations, about life after death, about pain and loss -- without ever making an ostensible effort to experience any of it.  And they all seem to relish the daytime-drama-grade dialog they spout, as though they're convinced it Means Something.The movie left me grumpy for myriad reasons, but the capper was the ending, which in another setting could have been considered moving and darned near poetic.  But seeing such a potential tear-jerker tacked to the end of a way-too-long soporific embarrassment like Dragonfly was darned near unbearable. "},{"Title":"A Film to Avoid","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Warning A Possible SpoilerDragonfly is one of those supernatural thrillers where the main character has lost someone close, and they must uncover a mystery as their being haunted by strange symbols and sounds. Although I liked, The Mothman Prophesies, starring Richard Gere, these types of movies almost never work which is the case with Dragonfly. Pictures like these often suffer with pointless or meaningless characters such as Kathy Bates who only exists to increase the number of pages in the script. There are also scenes in Dragonfly which are absolutely silly and not believable. Even though there are a few moments of interest or excitement, most of it is stupid, boring and dull. Kevin Costner is not a bad actor, but his choices of films in recent years has not been good and Dragonfly is no exception. I already mentioned that I liked, The Mothman Prophesies, and when it comes to the genre of supernatural thrillers I would recommend it. Or maybe you might want to check out, The Caveman's Valentine, with Samuel L. Jackson, but Dragonfly should be avoided. "},{"Title":"Not great, but does not deserve such harsh comments...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has been quite slated and is certainly not everyone's cup of tea. During the showing, I heard a number of people groaning and complaining, and a few even walked out.But it's really not that bad. One of the major criticisms levelled at the movie is that it doesn't know whether it wants to be a tear-jerking drama or a supernatural horror/thriller. Why not be both? I personally always find cross-genre movies interesting... at least as noble attempts.Certainly, there are lots of plotholes, a little bit too much violin (teary!) music, the ending IS out of a hallmark card, and Kevin Costner is somewhat dull at times. Despite this, it's a slightly above-average movie that at least realises it may not have the most original story ever, and tries to rise above it with some interesting twists.Unfortunately, Kathy Bates really is criminally underused. A talented, delightful actress with scope and range of Ms. Bates should have more than do than be thrown into a few bit parts here and there. Hope the DVD has lots of deleted scenes featuring her! "},{"Title":"Don't let the reviews fool you...","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  After going through some of the comments for Drangonfly, I was discouraged from watching the movie. However, ever since I saw the trailer for Dragonfly, I had wanted to see it. Therefore, against the advice of IMDB commentators(most of them), I went ahead and saw it, and I'm glad I did so.Yes, maybe the movie didn't score high with the critics, but the movie was very entertaining. If you like mystery, and a little bit of suspense, I think you'll like this film.After you finish watching this film, you'll see how every incident in the movie fits neatly together. Man, the review were misleading. This is a good movie. Almost as entertaining as Blade II, which is a completely different genre. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, better than I thought it would be!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this Dragonfly on opening night, and much to my surprise the theater was mostly empty. From watching to preview of the movie, I was confused to what the movie was about. It looked to be a type of spooky thriller. I am not the biggest fan of Kevin Costner, but his preference was a nice effort (I think he did a nice job) as for the story it was really good, it got little strange in some parts. But overall the Dragonfly was better than I thought it was going to be. It had some surprising twists. I give it a seven out of 10. If you like thrillers as I do, you will want to see it. If you are debating about seeing this Dragonfly go see it. "},{"Title":"Life as beer commercial (No spoilers; the trailer tells us he's not simply nuts)","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this one cold, hadn't seen anything by Mr. Shadyac except a few moments of Ace Ventura on TV, so I was rooting for it to win me over, as I always do when I've paid to watch something, & it proceeded very agreeably for quite some time. It was like those beer ads where life just seems to roll placidly along.  Everyone in it was smart, had a pretty good job, lived in a pretty nice house, had warm understanding friends.  Nobody really got uppity with anyone else. Even the officious boss was officious in a kind of nice way & seemed to be acting out of genuine concern for the widower.  The saintliness of the dead wife was presented as a given, clearly no skeletons looming in her closet, one less possible plot complication to disturb the tranquility.  (It wasn't even an issue that maybe she was being just a little bit selfish buggering off to South America with her unborn baby to help people; this took place in Chicago, where absolutely no one needs help I guess.)  She was even a vegetarian, & probably only ate plants that had died of natural causes.  Plus she had really nice Botticelli-type hair, so case closed.  So there I was actually enjoying this mellow little flick, having ascertained nothing really untoward would occur, nothing we hadn't seen before, chiefly in Poltergeist, such as----NO SPOILER, IT'S TELEGRAPHED FROM A MILE AWAY---- the clothes hanging themselves back up in the closet etc., although at that point I was wondering  Gee whiz, she can do all this physical stuff, if she wants to tell him something can't she just write him a damn note?  But seriously, I was enjoying it for what it was.  THEN he got on the plane to head south & I thought Uh-oh.  After that it was Indiana Jones & the Temple of Doom, another movie altogether. I could make a few points that maybe WOULD be spoilers but why bother?  It all makes about as much sense as a bunch of Yanomamo Indians frolicking in Hawaii.  The ending was calculated to make me cry & I wanted to, but it was just too goofy by then.  Please senor, you cannot enter the veelage, eet ees forbidden...  Yeah, okay, whatever.  So I left disappointed that they couldn't trust the first three-fourths of it to carry us the rest of the way.  Those who'd been bored with the flick by then would've left already. Those remaining would've liked to see it follow through in the same setting, at least speaking for myself.  But all in all a nice chick flick, my mom liked it a lot.  Best performance by Costner since Eliot Ness, I never liked all that larger-than-life crap he ventured into.  Laughed out loud at that flashlight line.  Did anyone notice Mrs. Jack Bauer from Twenty-four in the dinner-party scene?  "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but it's got some problems.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this trailer I thought it looked pretty good, but I was a little taken back when I saw that it was directed by Tom Shadyac of Ace Ventura Pet Detective, The Nutty Professor, Liar Liar and Patch Adams, but I still wanted to see it nonetheless.  Well, I can't really say it was a bad movie, it was actually pretty interested and very haunting at times, but over all it was a little slow.  I kept hoping it would just get to the point.The story is pretty interesting and I thought it was pretty well acted, I even thought the child actors in the film did a pretty good job (usually I have a problem with child actors).Ok, this is the part where I have to rant and rave about what I didn't like about the movie, so if you don't want to hear any SPOILERS, stop reading now!I realize that it's kind of impossible to think logically with a movie like this because the whole movie is based on fantasy, but nonetheless I thought to myself If this woman is trying to get this guy (Kevin Costner) to go somewhere, and she has the ability to take a dragonfly-paperweight out of the box that Kevin Costner just put it into, unwrap it from the paper it was in, and put all the clothes back in the closet so that Kevin Costner's character would believe this is for real, wouldn't she have the ability to get out a friggin' piece of paper and a pencil and write it down on a post-it note or something?  I do realize however that had she done this, it would result in a fifteen minute movie and wouldn't be nearly as exciting, but it seems an awful lot more reasonable.  Also...why did she draw all those cross things on the window when she could have just put the name of the place she wanted him to go to on the window?  Again, I realize that this would make a very uneventful movie.Other than that, I thought it was a pretty good movie and had a very nice ending.  I was a little unsure how they were going to end the film, but I thought they did a good job.  If you want my opinion though, I wouldn't recommend seeing in the theater, I'd probably wait till video, or at least see it at a matinee showing.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"An Amazing Jouney Near Death!","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I really loved this movie, i started watching this film expecting a common movie, but this film captivated me totally!, it was so touching that i couldn't believe the excellent movie i was watching!. I love the Stephen King type films and this was like one of them to me, the story is intelligent and well told, this film moves at the right pace until the end, to finally touch your heart and soul!; is remarkable how this story combines the drama with the tension of some scary scenes, specially the night scenes at the house. After i saw the movie, i could'n believe that this movie where directed by Tom Shadyac, yes! Tom Shadyac, the one responsible for making me laugh so hard with Jim Carrey's role in Ace Ventura, Liar Liar and Bruce Almighty!; i now think that besides funny movies, Tom likes also the movies in where a doctor is the star, like Patch Adams, another beautiful film of Shadyac. I have read some critics about the film and the overall IMDb rating, i can't believe this 5.7! is too low for me, but well i felt this movie as a 10 star one! and i keep to that! ABOUT THE FILM Kevin Costner is here Dr. Joe Darrow a great doctor that shares the profession with his wife Emily (Sussana Thompson), his wife decides to help some people in Venezuela, but suddenly she had an accident on a bus who felled to a river and her body was never found; Joe start to face his life without his wife, and he began to see Emily's patients, most of them were child with terminal cancer. Some of this child where near death because of their disease and were trying to give to Joe a message from his wife, after they saw her in the near death experiences. Joe tries by all means to find what his wife is trying to tell and he need to find the meaning of a strange symbol that the boys draw after this experiences near the light at the tunnel. In this events Joe finds a lot of questions about everything that is happening in his life, and if the things he see are real or just something produced by his mind.A masterpiece of Shadyac! Two Thumbs up!, worth to collect! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I can't say I'm a huge fan of Kevin Costner and I'm bored of films that copy the same style of 'Sixth Sense' but there is something about 'Dragonfly' draws the viewer into the storyline and the main character's plight.When paediatrician Joe Darrow's wife Emily dies in a bus accident in South America, where she was doing mercy work, he is left devastated and struggles to cope. But his grief is interrupted when his dead and dying patients begin communicating messages to him that he thinks are an attempt by his late wife to contact him. He's left wondering if her death has tipped him over the edge or if the dead can talk to the living? Or even if Emily is alive out there?Costner, who plays Darrow, gives a surprisingly effective performance as a man deeply grief-stricken, caught between letting his wife go and risking insanity by pursuing these messages his young patients pass on. The storyline itself was an involving mix of romance, suspense and drama. Although certain aspects were rather clichéd or clearly just added to keep the film going longer, this was easily forgiven because Darrow was a nicely-depicted character who you couldn't help empathise with and the ending was delivered in an up-lifting manner. These days, films of this sort usually resort to shock sad/tragic finales that it's actually a pleasant change to see things end happily.This is certainly one for Shyamalan fans or those wanting a mildly creepy and quite intelligent film. "},{"Title":"Costner's descent into oblivion continues","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Guy's wife dies and he is convinced she is trying to reach him from beyond. Blah blah, boring, boring, Kathy Bates unattractive, and finally a climax taken from a third grade creative writing exercise.The sand must surely be running out on this guy's career. I get the impression he was shrewd with his money, so he will probably always be able to finance movies on his own. But the studios I am sure have had it. Banality. Trying to capitalize on the paranormal appetite of audiences, he comes up with a classic Costner dud, whose intention as always is to further glorify Costner, not his character, because he is incapable of acting in the true sense, but the great celluloid hero, Kevin Costner. To be fair, it's done a lot with these male heroes, but he just doesn't cut any mustard. I will give him one thing, the self-effacing comment on his weight problem. It was refreshing counter egoism. Costner's appeal and career will only be salvaged when he completely assumes that stance and is able to portray himself as an everyday Joe. He would be perfect in a supporting role, and you heard it here first, he will one day receive an Oscar and career blood transfusion when that happens.   "}{"Title":"GO see it","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Critics should try and make a movie this good, before cracking down on it...Loved the cinematography's blue theme.  Actually glad I stayed for the credits...BEAUTIFUL song at the end. "},{"Title":"a movie with wings","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was heartwarming and left my friends and I watery eyed. A beautiful Love story with a great ending to the movie. It will definitely keep your attention as you try to figure out some of the clues and when you find out what is going on it is so touching.  "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" For some reason IMDb declares it necessary that any review contain a minimum of ten lines of commentary. Frankly, this film doesn't deserve the attention that much effort would entail. But allowing this film to go without comment would be unfair to anyone who may potentially waste two hours of their life on this tripe, and really, that's what it is. Kevin Costner has trod this ground before, and in an infinitely better manner, in Field of Dreams. Loss and redemption are themes familiar in a lot of movies, and for good reason. No thinking person has experienced the former without deeply considering the latter. Deep consideration is something that is apparently beyond the people responsible for this, um, effort.A films should have themes, subtext, meaning beyond what the characters say. This doesn't even come close. Hell, the stated message of this movie isn't even much of a message. Simply states, this movie is, in the most succinct way I can state it, unbridled pablum. "},{"Title":"Sentimental nonsense that will just about please the target audience","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Joe Darrow is in mourning. His saintly doctor wife died in an accident while helping in Latin America and he has been inconsolable since &#150; not even being able to find her body and give her a proper funeral. He tries to move on but he thinks he is going crazy, with little things happening around the home and thinking he is seeing things. When a patient at his hospital has a near-death experience, he returns to tell Joe that Emily has something to tell him but the patient can't remember anything other than a symbol he remembered seeing. As Joe digs deeper, he finds more mystery without many good answers. Meanwhile his friends and colleagues worry that they are losing him.Do you get weepy at stories where love lives on beyond the grave? Do you believe that love between two soul mates could be so strong as to cross any divide? If these things sound like a story well worth hearing then you are probably target audience for this film and may well enjoy it. Certainly its blend of the supernatural and eternal love will be best enjoyed by those who rate Ghost as one of their favourite movies ever. For the majority, the sentimentality may be a bit too much to swallow though but it still does enough as a mystery to keep things moving forward. When the ending does come though, it does have enough emotional syrup to choke a camel and it takes its time to get to the conclusion that we all knew was coming. The mix of jump scares and romance doesn't work that well but, like I say, it pushes the right buttons to suit the target audience, even if it pushes the emotion one a bit too hard.Costner is roundly depressed from start to finish and can't do much more with his character than mope around the place looking sad before occasionally looking frenzied and determined. He does enough to suit the material but I did struggle to see this as the man who once barnstormed it in Oliver Stone's JFK. Thompson is all a bit angelic and saintly and therefore just joins the dots in her performance. The support cast will have plenty of familiar faces but none of them do much of note; Morton and Rifkin are just sort of there while Kathy Bates takes the money for a few scenes and a week or so's work.Overall this is not a terrible film but it is very much aimed at a specific type of viewer and, if you're not into this sort of thing, then it is unlikely you'll get much from it although it does enough to be distracting and watchable if still nonsense. "},{"Title":"Didn't really care what happenned, premise went flat","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Tom Shadyac, responsible for one of my favorite guilty pleasure-like comedies, Ace Ventura, has recently (since films like the funny if sitcomish Liar Liar and the similar though not as funny Patch Adams) gone the way of the sap, and Dragonfly is an example of his plummet from his first success.  It stars Kevin Costner, who works in a hospital and is emotionally distroyed when he finds out that his wife has died in South America.  Soon after he starts seeing signs, visions, kids telling him secrets and all that spooky stuff, that points to his wife trying to contact him from the grave.  Another romance-ghost story thriller, with another bad Costner performance and added thrills at the end don't help and, most likley hurt the film.  Only two things of interest are supporting performances from the likes of Kathy Bates, Linda Hunt, and others.  But overall, it's a dud.  D+ "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I recently brought Dragonfly (mainly because i have a crush on Kevin Costner) i found the movie good in the way that its slightly different to other movies out there, and that it doesn't go over the top with the haunting of his wife. I thought that the movie puts a nice thought into your head that this may not just be it, there may be more to life than what we think, and that a love as strong as Emily and Joe can go on even after death. Costner was good and he made u feel the loss he feels for Emily. All in all a good movie. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was horrible. There was no creativity in the script, and videography. Pulling ideas from movies such as What Lies Beneath, The Usual Suspects, The Fugitive, and of course The Sixth Sense.The story lacked anything remotely close to characters that anyone would care about. Bottom line, don't see it, if you must see it then rent it...maybe.Costner needs to stick to baseball movies because his judgement in scripts other than baseball is really bad.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, But Once You Know The Ending.....","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is mainly a vehicle for Kevin Costner, who dominates the film. There really is no co-star of the movie.Despite a film that centers around atheists and has a disappointing finish, I still found the film interesting. Knowing the ending, and that it wasn't that good, doesn't inspire me to watch this again unless it's years from now and I've forgotten the story. I'll just remember it was an entertaining movie.Th middle part of this 104-minute movie is the best and is scary in parts. It's beautifully filmed and looks great on DVD. Also, the profanity is very low. All in all, if you haven't seen it, it's definitely recommended but I would hesitate before buying it. This is just not a film you would watch over and over. "},{"Title":"good ghost story but not a great movie","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) loses his doctor wife Emily (Susanna Thompson) while working charity in Central America. He's haunted and her body is not found. Then he receives a Dragonfly Mobile in the mail ordered by Emily. He had conflicted with her about going. While working at the hospital, Joe encounters Jeffrey who comes back from the dead. He was Emily's patient from before and claims to have had afterlife visions. Then another kid Ben claims to have visions of the lady doctor. There are drawings of a wiggly cross. Sister Madeline had worked with the kids about their after-death experiences.It's a good ghost story but it does lack tension. There isn't anything scary in this. This is strictly a mystery and not a very mysterious one at that. There are no big twists and turns. Costner does a little too much overacting but there isn't much else that he could do with the material. "},{"Title":"Above Average","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I disagree with Berardinelli on this one. This was not a bad movie, definitely above average. I am not a believer in religion, the supernatural or any of that mumbo-jumbo, not at all, but I nevertheless found this to be a rather well made, decently constructed movie, which was also quite entertaining. Yes, it had a lot of cliché's, but they where not as apparent as in other cases. Kevin Costner was very good in his role, very believable. This is his movie all the way, he takes up about 90% of the screen time, but he does it well. Good camera and decent sound too. Again, not a masterpiece by all means, but a decent movie to watch on a rainy evening, and if your expectations are not set too high, you may even like it. "}{"Title":"Despite some dubious moments I liked this","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" *Spoiler-ish (but not really)* Despite some moments of dubious acting from both Kevin Costner (a very short haired??) Kathy Bates, and a completely over the top scene where Costner jumps over a waterfall and drowns (?) in the same bus that his wife did about a year earlier which allows him to see her ghost and get the answers he's seeking. Yes, despite all that I still liked this movie.It's a unique story and was scarier then I was expecting, delving into ghosts and things that go bump in the night. Ultimately I guess its a love story too, as Dr. Joe Darrow, is plagued by what he believes are messages from his wife after she dies while on a red cross mission in Venezuela. Joe begins to wonder if her spirit is trying to contact him and then goes about trying to communicate with her.The ending is a big surprise but it did leave me wondering exactly how they were going to get out of South America without any paperwork? 08.13 "},{"Title":"Should Buzz And Soar...But Just Hovers","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Not quite as bad as its reputation, this is a passable, Spiritual, Sentimental bit of claptrap that is begging for bigger questions to be answered without a clue. New Agey to be sure, it skirts Religiosity with throwaway sarcasm and not exactly Doctrinal explanations. It also barely makes the case for Scientific Textbook Dogma on the subject of the NDE.In fact, that is what makes this such a frustrating Film. It ducks, dodges, bends, bobs, and weaves its way through material that can be deep, disturbing, enlightening, or just plain spooky without managing to attach itself to any of these intrigues.It is the shallowness of the Script and walk-through Performances that keep this thing grounded when it should buzz and soar like a, well, Dragonfly. For the most part it just hovers, like a Dragonfly, but never zips like the Totem's ability to garner awe and attention.Its not an awful Movie and that may seem like slight praise and it is. The Ending will be an Epiphany for some and an oh come on for others depending on your tolerance for the Paranormal or mediocre Movies. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Unforgettable","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I saw Dragonfly many years ago now but it has never left me. I am surprised that of all the movies I have seen that this is one I have found to be unforgettable. Though the budget wasn't huge and the special effects look low-grade by today's standards the acting is good and the message is powerful. It resonated with me on a number of levels. It is also a very interesting story. It doesn't matter whether you believe in the supernatural or psychic abilities or any of that, it is still intriguing. After someone very close to me passed away the movie became even more significant to me. I could really relate to his confusion and the feelings of madness, the anger and questioning of your own sanity. If you are dealing with a tragic loss or asking big questions about life, death and the after-life, this movie might give you something new to ponder, or distract you for a while - in a useful way - from your private pain and grief. Eventually, you might even find it offers some small comfort. "},{"Title":"Going to the Well One Too Many Times","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This was a movie that managed to keep my complete attention for at least the first 45 minutes or so. Unfortunately, it seemed like the director (Tom Shadyac) kept trying to artificially maintain the suspense by returning to the same type of scenario on more than one occasion. And it started to get old fast. For example, one child has a near-death experience and recounts to Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) that his deceased wife Emily Darrow (Susanna Thompson) has a message for him. Not long afterward another child also has a near-death experience and says the same thing. Likewise, both children are drawing misshapen crosses. Even Joe Darrow's pet parrot gets into the act. And we see the same images (dragonflies, crosses, etc.) again and again. Now, don't get me wrong, I liked this film overall. But there is such a thing as going to the well one too many times. And that's what happens in this case. "},{"Title":"What she taught me in death is what she taught me in life. To trust, to have faith. Because as a friend of mine once said, it's belief that gets us there.","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Dragonfly is directed by Tom Shadyac who also co-writes the screenplay with Brandon Camp and Mike Thompson. It stars Kevin Costner, Kathy Bates, Ron Rifkin, Joe Morton and Linda Hunt. Music is scored by John Debney and cinematography by Dean Semler. Plot finds Costner as a grieving doctor who starts to believe he is being contacted by his late wife through patients near death experiences.She was my ultimate partner, my best friend and lover. And I miss her beyond belief. I also know I'm never gonna see her again, not ever. And I'm just beginning to understand what that means so intensely that I sometimes wish I didn't have to wake up anymore. And the last thing I need is someone telling me what to feel, or how to feel.It was badly marketed as a supernatural horror during the publicity prior to its theatrical release, and even now certain DVD covers lend the unsuspecting to thinking it's a nerve jangling experience. That it failed to resonate with critics and many film fans is not surprising, they either didn't get the spook fest they expected, or they simply had no time for a picture high on sentiment. And, without doubt, there are those who simply dislike Costner to the point that even when his peers were lauding him, they were throwing the poisonous darts. Does this mean they are all wrong and Dragonfly is a great picture? No, not at all, it has problems for sure, but really it could only ever appeal to one corner of the film loving market.Dragonfly is a meditation on grief, where structured as it is, it opens the possibility of something past death offering advice and hope. This of course brings in much sentimentality as the makers hit the viewer with a sledgehammer, reference gravely ill children, young suicides and Costner's grieving. But what's wrong with sentimentality anyway? True, they go too far in the final quarter here where an underwater sequence is as trite as it gets, but some folk want to be manipulated into a teary eyed state, or they want to believe as Fox Mulder does. It's also worth mentioning that this isn't loaded as statement to say there is something after death, that the white light thing waits for us all, because it is disputed during a dinner conversation that puts up a valid argument against the near death experience.Always interesting in themes and played deftly by Costner (who always does great brooding and inner turmoil) and Bates, this is a film worthy of inspection by seekers of the heart tug. Suffice to say, the horror faithful and those that hate the treacle treatment should stay away. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Still not sure","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS BELOWThis movie starts out good. I was drawn into it from minute 1. As it develops, all sorts of questions rise and you're not sure where the whole thing is going. That's good. You'll find yourself wondering about all that remains unclear. Untill the ending. Most of the signs used in the movie are explained well. The dragonfly, the waterfall, the rainbow, okay, that's cool. But there is still a piece of the puzzle missing. The wife was dead, no she was rescued by the tribesmen, no she was dead but left a baby. Why did she die? Taken by the river? WTF? I can't stand that! The fact she left a baby didn't touch me at all as it should.. Crap ending.What also struck me as somewhat hard to understand I thought it was pretty obvious most indian tribes have become more civilized nowadays - look at the nice pickup they were driving. But when we are shown the village it looks like a flood swept all civilization away and the villagers are back to the stoneage again.And last but not least - the pilot says he speaks a little native and the natives speak a little Spanish. Okay fine. But in the end when the native woman shows the birthmark at the baby's leg, the pilot with his crappy knowledge of both native and English still manages to explain the word dragonfly. Say what? English is not my native language but I have come to use it more than often, but before I saw this movie I didn't have the slightest clue as to what a dragonfly was. I even had to look it up! Maybe not a so big a deal but I found it VERY hard to believe... "},{"Title":"Dragonfly is not the successful movie","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If anyone asks me Which film has the worst final ever? I said Dragonfly without doubt. Because; I watched the drama film at the beginning. But and then the movie began to have some frightful scenes. I think the cast may not have known it is not good to use scare with drama. Finally I want to say that Kevin Costner does not rescue the film and he shows us the worst performance of all.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  After I've seen the trailer, I had to see the movie. Ok, so I was a bit disappointed, 'cos the trailer made me expect something just more. I think Dragonfly does fit in the The Sixth Sense category although TSS was much better. Maybe it's just because so many movies in that genre followed and people are quite fed up, and want to see something else.It's true that Kevin Costner has played better, and it's a shame the characters of Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt were so less developed.But nevertheless, I had quite a good time and I thought at some points the movie was quite scary. (so I did hide behind my boyfriend ) "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say that after reading comments by other viewers, critics and so on, I had very low expectations on seeing this movie. Since it was on at the Drive-in as the second feature following Scorpion King, I decided to watch it...and am glad I did.The gentleman who equated the movie with being another Sixth Sense ripoff is wrong. The only similarities are that dead people are communicating with live people but here it is when they are considered dead...heart stopped, in the tunnel with the light at the end or when they are in a coma.This movie grabbed me early and held on. It is about a man who lost his wife but since her body was never recovered, he couldn't be sure she was dead. So, when he seems to be getting messages delivered by kids with near death experiences he sort of believes them.I think this movie was made well  and cast even better. Go see it...with an open mind...and you will be pleasantly pleased!! "},{"Title":"Several moments of genuine eerieness.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  No doubt another movie trying to rip off the success of THE SIXTH SENSE, DRAGONFLY tells the story of Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) who has just lost his wife Emily whose life was lost while in the Peace Cor. Soon after her death, *MINOR SPOILERS* Joe begins to experience strange occurences, things begin to happen to him. He hears voices calling out to him during his late night hospital shift, sees visions of his deceased wife and his pet parrot (aptly named Big Bird) begins to act strangely aswell. DRAGONFLY is a pretty creepy movie when it wants to be. At one point, I yelled out loud in the theater. Which was strange because I don't think anyone else did. This is in the ghost story genre along with others such as WHAT LIES BENEATH and THE SIXTH SENSE. Kathy Bates is again great as Joe's neighbor who offers comfort and help to him whenever possible.*SPOILER*(maybe) My only problem with her being that she is continuously mentioning that she is an attorney. *SPOILER* As another user said, that when Joe's wife begins haunting him and doing all sorts of physical stuff- one couldn't help but wondering why she couldn't just write him a damn note and stop scaring the hell outta him all the time. The ending was a bit much. You couldn't really see it coming at all. *MINOR SPOILER* except maybe a little bit in the beginning, it was kinda foreshadowed. So, I'm gonna give DRAGONFLY a 4/5 because of the ending. It was a little much. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Dragonfly. It was a sad love story. A man's wife is killed and her soul tries to contact him with a message. I guessed the surprise ending but was momentarily thrown by the almost ending. I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie at a special showing for a group which filled the entire theater.  The audience included people from all walks of life, both young and old.  With very few exceptions, everyone seemed to like Dragonfly.Judging from some of the other comments, I think that there is now a bunch of movie fans who will only accept superficial flicks that include mostly non-stop action and very little else.  I think these people are in the minority.  I sincerely believe that most audiences enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"will her soul be able to tell her husband what she want him to know......","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A desperate wife's soul tries to get into her husbands attention something very important and tries to get in touch with him through patients who are having near death experiences.... And giving out a series of clues to her husband but will he be able to interpret those clues and can find what she wanted him to find out or not....that is all this movie is all about&#133;. Though boring in first half film picks ups the pace in the second half with an excellent ending...all together good movie, enough for a Saturday night "},{"Title":"Only good thing was the jumpy moments","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie wasn't worth my $4. It wouldn't even be worth $2.  It wasn't that great at all, and I was sorry I took my friend to see it.  I fell asleep a few times during that movie.  That's odd because usually I can keep my eyes open during a movie, even if it sucks as much as this one did.  Kevin Costner did not do this movie justice.  I don't think he acted as well as he has in other movies.  Oh well, better luck next time Kevin.  I'm sure lots of people saw this movie anyway.  I don't know if they felt the same way I do about this movie, but eh. I did like the moments that made me jump though, like the moment with the parrot and the dead people, and everything else that made me holler.  Great when there were scary moments, but there weren't many.  The ending was a nice twist though.4/10 "},{"Title":"Right at the threshhold of being worth it","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A little flat but worth seeing.  Not as trivial as the previews made it out to be.  Actually had a decent ending and some strong action sequences I wasn't expecting.  Hints of Jacob's Ladder and What Lies Beneath but not as good as either. "},{"Title":"Almost A Fine Film","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, the plot is unoriginal, and yes the choice of Kevin Costner left it in a bad spot.  But, this movie is really good.  A story similar to the wonderful What Dreams May Come and the chilling moments of The Sixth Sense make this an entertaining hour and a half.  I really enjoyed Kathy Bate's role and would have loved to see it become a major character instead of just a bit part.  Yes, I would recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind and two hours to spare. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, but still enjoyed it","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I expected this movie to be like What Lies Beneath, lots of scary/jump scenes, and plot lines that twist and make no sense until the very last second.  This movie did not make a whole of a lot of sense, and if they were going to go into the topic of deep psychosis they needed to spend a little more time explaining it.  I also wished that Kathy Bates would have played a more important and sincere role in the film.While the above were drawbacks to the film, it did enough to satisfy the cravings to be frightened and confused.  I think movies like this can only survive on mixed and entangled plot lines, otherwise they would be useless.  There were a few tense scenes, less than I had desired, but they were there.  The ending of the film leaves you with a happy feeling, as opposed to the usual depressed, frightened feeling you would leave with in a film of this genre.Overall 6/10  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie - wonderful story.  Great ending.  Is it true?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a well acted story - I thought that the children in it were very good and the adults were believable and well-cast also.  It seemed to be a nice attempt to show some possibilities about life and death and the between stages.  The ending was worth seeing it for - it was so heartwarming. Women would especially enjoy it.  Many men might also. "},{"Title":"Not the best of type genre, but worthy all the way.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Good supporting cast from Kathy Bates, Linda Hunt, and a fine performance from Jacob Vargas as a South American private pilot. Fine performances from the two children in the hospital.  I guess I would have liked to see Costner script show more than just confused or bemused. But one must remember that the Costner character was severe grief over the loss of his wife.Not the best of the type genre, but I was entertained all of the way. Worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Good flick.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Lot's of people will try to compare this movie to The Sixth Sense, because they both deal with the theme of people from the afterlife trying to communicate with the living.  I actually enjoyed this film more then The Sixth Sense.  I thought that the pace of TSS was dreadful, and the scares were just creepy and not really the boo type shock.  I probably jumped out of my seat 4 times during Dragonfly and the ending was a complete shocker and really paid off all the effort that Costner's character's wife made to contact him. I highly recommend. "}{"Title":"One of Costner's better performances.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly I found to be deftly crafted in both script and direction. I must say I am a Kevin Costner fan (his No Way Out and Silverado are two of my favorite films) and I was not disappointed here.  I found his performance believable and heart-rending.  The two genuine shocks in the movie were effective and well timed.  Two disappointments the underuse of Kathy Bates and the overuse of Linda Hunt....great in Silverado but what was she doing in Dragonfly?  Good opening sequence, great climax and top-notch cinematography.  Go see this film! "},{"Title":"Entertaining but a bit predictable","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If you don't like Kevin Costner, don't see this. If you like him or are indifferent it's not a bad movie, but it will end up being one of those that is not particularly memorable. IMHO it is also pretty predictable. I gave it a higher than average rating because I thought the directing and editing were well done. It was also well photographed. Some really gorgeous rain forest scenes. It was worth the price of a bargain matinee, and provided a couple of hours of watchable film. That's about it, though. "},{"Title":"What's with the bad press?","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  First off, this movie is not that bad. It's cute, slightly spooky, and a great date movie. I went to see this with friends and my boyfriend and I can tell you that this is a movie that will make mushballs out of guys. Sure it feels a little long and soggy in the middle but there's enough bumps and jumps along with a twisted ending that will make seeing this movie worth it. It's a little sappy but with the choice of movies that have come out so far this year, it's the only one I would contemplate seeing again.I am by NO means a Kevin Costner fan. I generally find his movies intensely boring and heavy handed with a gee whiz look how great I am at directing and ACTING message, but this movie didn't feel like it was just Kevin Costner's show. I thought he played the varying emotions of a broken hearted and grieving man very well. There were times when his dialouge was stupid, I always wanted to go white water rafting, I've always wanted to see that, white water, Is a perfect example. But costner is believeable as poor, tortured and confused everyman Joe Darrow. The supporting cast is very good and believable if not slightly cliched Darrow's 3 friends are always at the bar when you need them, his boss is an a-hole, the kid in a coma on the oncology ward is a shameless replica of the kid in the sixth sense, and the hard nosed lawyer next door with the heart of gold who just happens to be a widowed lesbian played with mediocre pizzaz by kathy bates.The Story is simple- and yes it could have been a half an hour long w/ out all the filler, but then what kind of a movie would that be? We need to build up the element of mystery so the ending proves that much more satisfactory. Rather than bore you all w/ the details of the movie you could read in any other review below me, I will just simply state thisDragonfly is a flawed but sweet movie. It tries hard, chugging along at a slow but steady pace and reaches climax with satisfying results. It's a fun, touching and rewarding way to spend a couple hours of your time. Chances are there will be people that don't like it- so what? Don't let what others say influence the good feelings this movie brings to you in your heart. True Hollywood sacchrine w/out the bad aftertaste. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A refreshing, comforting outlook at the afterlife( MILD SPOILERS)","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"     This was a good movie- There are too many comparisins with other movies that shouldn't be made. I found Dragonfly to be unique , not fitting perfectly into any specific genre.It is not to say that the film didnt have problems, but I found the complete product to be a very good one overall.    First, I will say that the thing that bothered me the most was how cynical the people in the movie where as far as the afterlife. I found the characters much too abrasive to be likeable.(excluding costners character). What I did like was the metamorphosis of Costners own spirituality. I found him to be believable , and ultimatley , likeable.    I found this movie to be comforting and touching. If you are looking for a movie that is a refreshing love story  - go see Dragonfly- I dont see how you could go wrong.       "},{"Title":"Better then you would expect -- not saying much 6/10","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly has a solid heart and good intentions.  Much like John Q. -- however, unlike John Q. Dragonfly doesn't preach and shove its message in your face.  In fact, Dragonfly is quite likable in many respects.  Kevin Costner gives a warm performance as a Doctor who is haunted over the death of his wife.  There is a neat scene involving a crazy parrot as well.The problem is, for a drama Dragonfly doesn't have much to it, and for a supernatural film....there is nothing eerie about it, because you have seen this all before.The film isn't terrible -- it's  JUST OK -- but don't expect much from it.  Better luck next time Costner.  "},{"Title":"There are 100 levels of consciousness ... and this movie achieves none of them","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  As a movie, Dragonfly makes an excellent novel.  As a movie ..., well it has several problems, the first being Kevin Costner.  Whatever spark Kevin used to bring to movies (and he had quite a bit 10 years ago), he's lost.  Kevin plays a dreary doctor named Joe Darrow who has been made even more dreary by the death / disappearance of his pregnant wife in the jungles of Venezuela.  Joe, the skeptic's skeptic is perfectly prepared to accept his wife's death until he begins hearing things, having visions and interviewing his wife's former young patients in the oncology ward. Part of the problem is there is no real suspense. Joe's experiences are far too literal to be the product of a sick mind. He gains too much evidence; and, since his life is never really injeopardy (until the surprise ending), the movie gains no tension or momentum. ZZZZZZZh. "},{"Title":"Finally Costner has a Winner.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't go in expecting much, as Kevin Costner's quality of movies has really dwindled in the past 10 years or so, but this movie reminded me a lot of Field of Dreams. Its a little unbelieveable at times, but if you go in to the movie to be entertained rather than to nitpick and scrutinize, you will be pleasantly surprised. The ending was an unexpected tearjerker. Go see it! "},{"Title":"The, Lets Bash Costner club","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is exactly why I don't read reviews anymore. This industry has become so pompous and self important that you can't believe anything you read about today's movies. These wanna be intellectuals that like to jump on bandwagons were just waiting for Costner to make a movie just so they could slam him. Okay, I got that out of my system. Costner does a great job being believable.He's an intelligent man who is in turmoil because his perfect world is torn asunder by something that isn't perfect and can't be explained. He's not my favorite actor but he is a good actor and he has been unfairly harangued in most of his movies. It just seems to be In to trash the guy and I don't think it is warranted and I think jumping on that band wagon is just indicative of the poor quality of reviews these days.Yes Bates and Hunt are great actresses and yes they probably could have found less important people to play minimal parts but hey! They performed the part that they were supposed to. The characters they played were supporting and didn't need to be made more then they were. Yes I would have liked to see more character development but the movie wasn't about them. They were supporting!There are two kind of movies with a whole range of movies in between. There is the feel good movie that you can go to for some light entertainment and walk out of the theater with a smile on your face. At the other end of the spectrum is the intellectual movie that you have to actually think about and have a good time doing it.BOTH movies are worth seeing; it just depends what you are there to see. Dragonfly is one of the former. Yes it is simplistic, yes it has some areas where you need to suspend your sense of logic and maybe your critical sense but it is a nice story with a good ending. I could spend hours tearing it apart but what's the point? It isn't intended and doesn't pretend to be an intellectual movie. It's there for entertainment! People spend so much time fluffing themselves up so they feel important and smart. Okay, here's the clue. If you want to go to an intellectual movie, this isn't it. If you want to take a friend to a nice movie with a good ending then I can't say more for Dragonfly.Give it a rest folks&#133;  "},{"Title":"Ok movie with a neat ending","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner has made his share of el stinkos but this one is a pleasant surprise. It has a story and works toward telling it and has a neat ending. What else does one ask for these days for eight bucks?Believe me the New Age trend is not without pit falls.  The Sixth Sense was only good for a single showing and then you got the whole planet knowing the catch. At least in Dragonfly the zinger isn't the whole trick. There was one thing that did sort of bug me. The indigenous natives show up in one scene with AK-47's in hand while in full native feathers and ear pierces.  Next they are in a near stone age village with wooden spears and long arrow bows. I wondered where the AK-47 guys were? This is an OK movie and sure Kathy Bates is rather wasted as are some other fairly neat roles such as the pilot of the small plane....But that is  what you get these days with the inmates running the asylum. A big name star picks a script and it becomes a movie...or does it???? "},{"Title":"Intriguing. Good movie, good acting, good directing.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If you are into car chases, profanity, nudity, gratuitous sex, loud music, and violence, then you should skip this picture. It has none of that. It does, however, like 'A Beautiful Mind', feature real people with real dialogue. You can actually hear and discern what the actors are saying, a rare thing these days. And the plot is a good one, very thought-provoking. Part of it was filmed on the beautiful island of Kauai, and there are pictures, several, of Dr. Emily Darrow sitting in front of Wailua Falls, the same waterfall that was used in the opening scene of the TV series Fantasy Island. If you like good, believable, movies that don't insult your intelligence, go and see this one. "}{"Title":"Deja-vu Message in a Bottle","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner trying to get in touch with his passed-away wife! Sounds familiar?Let me put it this way, if Kevin Costner had not starred in Message in a Bottle, and if I hadn't just watched The Mothman Prophecies (Richard Gere) 2 weeks ago, then I would have said that this movie is alright.... Again that was IF...  "},{"Title":"interesting story line.. slow movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I suppose i did't know what to expect when i entered the movie theater.the previews offered no clues as to what the movie would be about and the closest guess i could make of the movie would be that it was going to be like the mothman prophecies.  Once i watched the movie i realized that was a bad guess because the mothman prophecies was actually freaky. This movie was so amazingly boring that I actually left the theater to go see some of the other movies playing there.  I had to ultimatly come back (unfortunatly) because my friends wanted to see the ending. I would say the best part of the movie is the ending. The movie was a mix of the sixth sense, mothman prophecies (come on people- how many movies can you make about people drawing an insect?) and others.  The movie became cliche and predictable and I REALLy don't recommend it.  I'll give it 3 out of 10 points only because I feel sorry for the producers and the bad publicity they're going to get because of this movie.   "},{"Title":"Muddled but watchable.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film can't seem to decide what it wants to be, a supernatural thriller, a supernatural drama, or a tragic love story.A brilliant yet atheistic doctor begins to believe that his deceased wife is attempting to contact him via her former child patients.  This leads to supernatural chills, harrowing memories, and the Brazilian jungles.  As cited before, the film alternates between an aura of scares, despondent grievances, and unexpected poignancy.  Costner, as always, is an acquired taste, and how much you like (or believe) his performance may affect your empathy towards his character, but its generally poignant atmosphere keeps it afloat and warrants one view.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Mom loved it","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERI went to see Dragonfly expecting little.  Little is basically what I got. It wasn't a terrible movie, it had a great attempt at a script and an ending the ladies will like.  The acting however, was almost stomach turning.  It was hard to watch an actor like Costner fall... again.  Kathy Bates was decent but her part was small and, although better than Costner, wasn't performing at her best.  I was also confused as to why this movie was considered eerie by most... or, a thriller.  There were about 3 jump scenes and none of them made me jump.  The only reason I went to see it was because my mom wanted to.  Needless to say, she thought it was one of the greatest movies to be released in the last few years.  I suppose movies like this can satisfy the less artistic people in the world but I still prefer ones with decent acting and maybe a few less cliches.  Again, not a great movie, but if you like a decent attempt at a story line and more than cheezy acting, then you should like Dragonfly.******6 out of 10******  "},{"Title":"Slow getting started, but in the end, definitely worth seeing....","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps poor editing is to blame for this film moving along so slowly in the beginning, or maybe there is just so much symbolism, I was reminded of 'The Blair Witch Project', but once this film takes off..........it really soars. There are a few good jolts here and there, and a nice unforseen twist in the end that makes the film all worthwhile.Casting was impeccable, as no one else could have played Joe Darrow except Kevin Costner.  His depth of compassion as well as confusion brought a reality to the character that few could've pulled off as well. He was candid, angry, grief-stricken, impatient, confused, and yes, frightened. He brought all of these emotions to the table and more just as, dare I say, each and every one of us would have done, if given the same set of circumstances.  Believable?  You betcha.Kathy Bates brought several nice touches to the film, as did Linda Hunt, but I think their characters were a bit too understated, and would have liked to have seen more of them both in the film.Once the film does start to pick up speed, however, it does so rapidly. Joe Darrow will take you through a journey towards his one and only Emily, and in the quite unexpected end, these soulmates will finally prove that love really does transcend all~ "},{"Title":"Great Casting-Great Heartwarming Ending!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Go see this, or at the very least-rent it!  It's a great movie!  The move isn't your typical long drawn out type.  You know the kind-where it takes forever to get going, and in the end has no real plot.  It has a great surprise ending that will keep you wondering and guessing until the end! It doesn't play upon The Sixth Sense in anyway-unless the idea of communicating with the dead, life after death, suspense, or a surprise ending, are somethings that were ONLY brought about the The Sixth Sense-I didn't think so either.  So take the time out of your life to see a movie that will keep you guessing until the end and warm your heart.  "},{"Title":"Find an ending to match the buildup, and you would have a gem","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly's buildup --naively called the plot by those few remaining people who can still wind down and absorb the moments of a film these days in something other than jump-cut/sound track-whipped anticipation of the big cheesy Hollywood climax-- is genuinely moving and scary and suspenseful. The trouble begins only when we rise to the climactic plateau, where our way through some very critical moments in the plotting is, to my way of thinking, simply too muddied and gimmicky to ring as pure and true and simple as a lot that went before. Yet the film survives this problem --or tries to-- by being a movie that invites you to use your emotions, to cry if you are so moved. You can feel the Spielberg strings being pulled in nearly every scene. And no matter how much you recognize or resent that tug, you would have to be really too callous not to be open to the ride.In fact, I am convinced how much you like this film will be determined ultimately more by the level of your cynicism than your sophistication. Me, I am a sentimentalist and easy nostalgist with a few stars in my pocket to spare for films with a heart in the right place. 8 stars, to be exact.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, especially for those into the paranormal.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie tackling life after death and communication from beyond. Keeps you thinking all way through and has a nice twist at the end. A must see for those who have interest in such 'paranormal' experiences or looking for a break from the latest war movie/action trend nowadays.  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful with a surprise ending","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Even after the theatre's speakers kept cutting off the audio every once in awhile I still found Dragonfly to be a good movie. It was suspenseful and had a surprise ending. Ok, it's not as Oh my God! as Sixth Sense in the ending department but still good. You don't have to wait for videotape for this one. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Date Movie, with Questions to Ponder","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was an entertaining film.   Good, nothing great, just a good, solid thriller.   It's Ghost meets The Sixth Sense.   I'm a big Kevin Costner fan, so I'm a little biased.   It's got some intriguing questions to ponder about love after death and the afterlife.   There's some good scary moments (which are being ruined by the trailers), and one too many endings, but it's a good, solid entertainment.  What else can you expect during this part of the movie season?? "}{"Title":"Not good, not terrible, just so so","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly Gets 5 out of 10 By C.J. CauleyKevin Costner's latest attempt to pull his waning career out of its downward spiral is Dragonfly.  I give Dragonfly a five out of ten rating because it isn't anything spectacular and it isn't anything absolutely horrible either.  It's just there.  I wouldn't recommend it but I also wouldn't encourage you to avoid it like the plague.  If you're into after death communication you may love it.  I didn't buy it and I'm not a Kevin Costner fan either.Dragonfly is a love story about two doctors.  Costner is Dr. Joe Darrow, an ER doctor, his wife, Dr. Emily Darrow played by Susanna Thompson, is a pediatric oncologist.  He is caught up in the fast paced patch-them-and-discharge-them form of medicine with no emotional connections.  Emily's field is the exact opposite.  She is very close to her young, often dying, patients.  It's that kind of open heart that brought Emily to Venezuela to help underprivileged children.  It was her dedication to those children that would cost Emily her life...or did it?Joe, who apparently has the emotional range of a shoe (no wait, that's just Costner), tries to avoid grieving by throwing himself into his work. Costner was not the right actor for this role.  He has absolutely no emotional depth.  I could picture production assistants scurrying to put the fake tears in his eyes in every take.  Costner is better pitted as the average Joe, not Joe the grieving widower.Dr. Darrow soon discovers himself in extraordinary situations.  His wife's favorite things were dragonflies.  He is suddenly surrounded by them.  A particular dragonfly paper weight his wife was fond of keeps attracting his attention but soon his wife's seeming after death communication takes on a much larger role.  She begins to communicate with him through her young patient's near death experiences.Dragonfly goes for several cheap scare tactics all throughout.  It also has its comical moments which are oddly placed.  Big Bird, the Darrow's nearly bald parrot provides a lot of that comic relief.  This could be because of director Tom Shadyac who is used to directing comedies like The Nutty Professor and Ace Ventura Pet Detective.  The night of Emily's memorial service, Joe is out with his three best friends from college having drinks at a bar joking and laughing.  Far fetched at best and very disjointed.There is a spectacular cast of characters that are never fully explored like Linda Hunt who plays a nun that helps Joe on his journey.  She is only in one pointless scene.  A kind neighbor played by Kathy Bates is also a waste. Bates repeatedly mentions that she's a professor of law for no apparent reason and also mentions a Hannah that she's lost but it's never clear if Hannah is her daughter or her life partner.  Joe's relationship with his neighbor is a completely unlikely one.Joe's three best friends are played by spectacular actors including Matt Craven and Jay Thomas, but their talents are wasted.  They are only used in two scenes.  Their first appearance is in the previously mentioned scene that takes place right after the memorial which is completely out of place. Their next scene is just as odd as the three try to lure Joe on a white water rafting trip to take his mind off of Emily.Like Dragonfly's spiritual predecessor, The Sixth Sense, it is the child actors who steal the show.  Brian J. Davis and Robert Baily Jr. are the young men who try to deliver messages to a distraught and confused Joe. They have more depth of character than their adult star.  I was also surprised by minor player, Jimmy Leeward, who turned out to be one of the best performances in the film.Films like this and The Others try to be clever psychological thrillers but they all end up being cheap Sixth Sense rip offs.  Dragonfly is no exception.  If you miss the subtle hints presented in the first half hour of the film, you may be surprised and pleased by the ending.  It's everything in between that will leave you checking your watch for the time.  "},{"Title":"PRETTY GOOD MOVIE - BUT THE ENDING IS THE SURPRISE","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was entertaining, but a little overdone at times.  Kevin Costner did a good job as well as little used Kathy Bates and Ms. Hunt. I thought the ending was dramatic and a real surprise.  It is only about an hour and a half and I think overall it was worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Good attempt, bad casting","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Another new age movie trying to capitalize on the coat tails of The Sixth Sense. The story itself is intriguing, a man's deceased wife is trying to communicate a message from the here after. Unfortunately, Kevin Costner only plays on two levels; bemused and confused.Poor use of such great actresses as Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt. I expected them to add more to the story, but they were bit players. Too bad, they could have added that something more that the movie needed.The ending however is worth seeing. It was a nice twist, if you can stomach Costner's performance through the first half. "},{"Title":"Dragonflies and parrots","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Unfairly dismissed as cheesy,dragonfly is an endearing movie.Kevin Costner is perhaps not a great actor as some people understand it (thespians such as De Niro,Day-Lewis ,Nicholson or Penn).But in dragonfly he avoids pathos and gives a restrained performance,not devoid of emotion,which comes straight from the heart.He's given strong effective support by Kathy Bates ,whose character represents the common sense,rationalism,which is some kind of paradox since Costner portrays a physician,so par excellence a scientist,whereas she is a law professor .There are weaknesses,and the way the hero discovers the ark is rather far-fetched ,but the ending is smarter than you may think,and the little black boy in the hospital is really cute .The subject of the tunnel is straight out of the ark,but the treatment it's given is not that bad after all. "},{"Title":"This movie is Great","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I'd recommend this movie to all of you. It has the perfect balance between thrills and emotions. It touches you, and at the same time scares the cr*p out of you. This movie got me crying in the end, it was so beautiful. This just keeps you on the edge of your seat from the beginning to the end. It's a must see!Also I think this film is heavily underrated, this is more serious paranormal stuff, the idea is crazy but believable. I felt the emotions Joe felt all the way. I'd like to see more movies of this kind instead of the weird Sci-Fi movies.I recognize the behavior in some way. I'd compare this to when I was on vacation on a farm. There was a second attic in the barn. Someone has hung himself up there. Every time I stood by the stairs, I heard someone gasping for air, as if the rope was still around his throat. If I think of it I still get goosebumps. My girlfriend confirmed it, she told me about it and I heard it before so it's not just me.So maybe there is something more than this dimension. And thats where this movie makes a good point. Where do you end up after dying? Maybe that is what we humans would refer to as a ghost, though thats only a theory.Watch this movie if you haven't seen it, thats an order! "},{"Title":"Good story","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The flow and the dialog was awkward at times but I thought the story was really interesting. I recently caught the movie playing late one night on the SciFi channel and I'm glad I watched it. I remember wanting to see it when it came out, but it got such poor reviews that I quickly forgot about it. However, I think this movie is decent and I thought the ending was really unexpected and satisfying. I thought the Kathy Bates character was particularly awkward because it wasn't really explained why this woman would do so much for the Kevin Costner character. The Bates character was definitely needed so that the Costner character would have someone to talk to but her motivations needed to be explained more.However, I did enjoy the movie (even jumped out of my skin a few times) and I wouldn't mind seeing Dragonfly again. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse, but I've also seen better","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It's difficult to know how to rate this film. To begin with, I'd say that if Costner and Bates' parts were played by unknown actors, I probably wouldn't think much of this film. But their presence certainly gave it a needed boost and contributed to how well it was received generally, even though it wasn't considered a stand-out film overall.The film begins with Costner attempting (yet failing) to overcome the death of his wife. But as the film moves along, we begin to realise that Costner is perhaps receiving messages from his wife from beyond the grave. Perhaps his wife is not really dead? Or perhaps his wife is in the mysterious limbo land between life and death? The film moves along at a reasonable pace, but unfortunately, it seems to latch onto a theme or turning point and exploit it for all it's worth. Because of that, the film-makers seemed to have somewhat overplayed their hand and dragged it out a little bit more than necessary. In fact, by the end of the film, you realise that there really isn't much of a story overall and it makes one wonder how they managed to drag a feature-length film out of it.However, there are moments that are truly suspenseful and they happen to capture your imagination and curiosity - which is the main reason why I gave it a few more stars. Also, there was a very humanitarian twang that was enjoyable, yet it clearly avoided becoming a left-wing romp and stuck to the main theme/point that it was trying to produce.Overall, a mix between a good watch and a good time killer. Check it out, but it is certainly far from Costner's best work. For the record, I continue to regard Costner as an extremely underrated actor who seemed to have lost a lot of respectability with the disastrous Waterworld. Somehow I think that's unfair and every actor is entitled to a couple of turkey's in his/her time. "},{"Title":"DRAGONFLY with Kevin Costner","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" First of all. I have seen or own any and all films starring Kevin Costner regardless of his co-stars. I think you get the point! Besides., he is a very talented director. I hope he develops a film project very soon and finds himself in the director's chair. Dragonfly is not only a favorite of mine but also my 2 daughters-ages 17 and 22-and we watched it again on this sunny Sunday in California. Imagine, parents and their kids enjoying the same film together. It's almost hard to believe. Also, every time we view Dragonfly it is always followed up with a discussion and or debate regarding the dragonfly symbol to children being diagnosed with terminal cancer and donor questions While this movie explores life and death issues on several levels, the main crux is about receiving a message -a very important message in this case-from a loved one who has passed away.This movie will not only tear at your heart strings butit will keep you in suspense till the end. Although the movie is dedicated to Katherine Ann Curtis , there is no information as to whether she is deceased. Just wondering. "},{"Title":"Nothing groundbreaking","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film is about the paranormal experience of a grieving doctor who lost his wife in a traffic accident in Venezuela.This film was enjoyable, but could have achieved more. I feel that there could have been more portrayal of havoc in the initial car accident scene to create a climax. Instead, in the film the scene was cut short at the point where the tragedy just happened, leaving the scene rather unfinished.Kevin Costner's role as a doctor was rather unconvincing. Would a hospital really let a doctor deal with patients that are not under his care? There is a lot of medicolegal issues involved and I do not think it could have happened! In addition, the film spent too much time trying to convince us how hard Dr J Darrow worked in the hospital. The time could have been spent on developing more paranormal happenings.It was an OK film, worth a watch but nothing groundbreaking. "},{"Title":"It was meaningful!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I loved the movie myself very much. It was meaningful, and it did show the human being emotions very well, it made you feel somehow. I don't know about the other people, but i loved it. Costner played well and Shadyac did a nice job. The story was perfect, the meaning of it was deep. And the film music was so good too. It showed the deep side of your heart in a very smart way, in a very unique way... the faith of love, the magic of love, and i was so surprised by the end, somehow so touching...sad and happy... The movie worked for me... It also had a point about 'children'. a very meaningful one which you could see so in an ordinary way, or in a deep way. It wanted to say, how things children understand, and how the adults ignore them. It's not a little thing for a child to go near the death. And it showed that magical soul in children. This movies worths to seen even twice, i saw it twice, but maybe you'll hate it, it was my opinion  It was deep! "}{"Title":"I enjoyed it  except for  the ending","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Costner is a doc whose wife drowned when her bus went into a river in south America. The doc goes crazy with both grief and the feeling that his dead wife is trying to contact him or maybe is still alive since the body was not recovered. Pretty slow going and i thought we were going to get some open-ended finale. But we do find out what happened to the wife. I thought the ending was silly and schmaltzy but at least it did tie things up .I like Costner and he does a good job here. Kathy Bates has a pretty big part but is a pain. She always has been fat but now she's a downright elephant and has a man's hair style too. Now how does that add to a movie?Tiny Linda Hunt has an important part as the nun who is an expert on near death experiences. Later on Costner meets a wise and tiny native woman in the jungle who counsels him on his wife and i bet that was Linda too, though the credits don't say so. "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie of a very nice story with a good message.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a TV broadcast, I usually like Costner movies and there was nothing else to do with my time. The title comes from the wife's fondness for the butterfly, she collected photos and butterfly trinkets. The movie starts interestingly enough, with the pregnant wife, against hubby's wishes, going on assignment to South America, being evacuated by bus during heavy rains, and being involved in an accident which throws all their plans into turmoil.  The ending is also quite interesting and good. However the largest part of the movie, the middle, is not particularly interesting and much of it seems to be drawn out to properly fill the target movie run time. An example of a good idea which was not carried out particularly well.SPOILERS follow, quit reading now, OK!? He gets a report that his wife drowned, along with others, when the bus slipped into a swollen, fast-moving river. Devastated, he is a doctor, handles his grief by working too hard, doesn't believe in an afterlife, but encounters a young man whose heart had stopped and before being revived said he spoke to the dead wife. He draws pictures of what he saw, a crude wavy 'cross', which we eventually figure out represented a butterfly, his deceased wife's favorite insect. He eventually travels to the site of the accident, goes into the bus, almost drowns, but has a revelation, goes to the nearby village, finds his young daughter there after showing them a photo of his wife. Even though she had drowned, they were able to save the baby. Movie ends with a few clips of daughter growing up with dad. "},{"Title":"good movie with a great ending","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  i loved the ending of this movie. the only thing i found disappointing was the fact that Jacob Smith(played Ben)only had 3 scenes and 2 of them he didn't talk in. The only reason i wanted to watch the movie was because i love Jacob Smith and wanted to see all the movies he was in so i think he should have had more of a part. but otherwise it was a great movie and i highly recommend seeing it if you have not. i liked how they made the movie realistic and supernatural at the same time and the story like was pretty beleivable i think. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly uplifting.","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Some of you people can't even get the simple facts down. It was set in South America. Kevin Costner's initials are K.C. How do you expect to know how to review a film when you don't even pay attention to the details?This movie was pure as it is simple. Joe Darrow's (K.Costner) dead or possibly alive wife, is trying to contact him through the physical/ meta-physical forms of existence. Through her cancer patients, through moving objects in their house. Attempting to show him that something remains yet to be solved in his life. The movie does tend to drag at certain points but not very often. And not for too long. And Costner has really yet to show his sadness until the end. All in all. Was surprised to see Kevin do such a good movie. It's about time. Would compare this to the Sixth sense, yet not as intricate or scary. "},{"Title":"A little slow, but not bad...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time recently, and was pleasantly surprised.  I'm not usually into the supernatural sort of theme, but the story kept me interested.  However much I didn't believe what was going on, I kept trying to figure out how the end of the movie would turn out.  It's interesting and keeps you staying to find out what happens with the mystery, but it's definitely not the best Kevin Costner film ever made.  The directing was nicely done, and the writing was very well researched, however there were times when it was just too slow to be suspenseful, which was what I think the movie was trying to capture.  The ending is most definitely the pay-off though.  If you get past the first half, you should more than likely stay for the rest of the movie, just to see what happens.  I think that the end was the best part, and I had the chance to see this piece a second time, and really work out all the pieces from the first viewing, out in my head.  It's intriguing, and slower paced, but if you like dramas, and supernatural mysteries, you'll more than likely enjoy this film.   I give it a 6 out of 10.  Worth watching, but nothing that special.That's the end of my review. "},{"Title":"Costner's descent since Waterworld continues","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The only time you might like Dragonfly is if you don't have to pay for it, you are hopelessly romantic, it's late at night and you are with your love one wishing to kill some time (if you don't have better things to do). If those conditions are not present the only thing you should do is ... wait for the moment. This is a movie about a Chicago doctor (Kevin Costner) experiencing some paranormal activities related to or/and caused by his late wife. He thinks that using his patients she is trying to tell him something. Good beginning up to the middle and then sentimental, tedious with contrived ending. Costner's performance is to put it mildly unsatisfactory. His descent from Waterworld continues. I guess the main message they are trying to send with this movie is that there is more in life than just mathematics and exact science or at least there should be. I also want to believe so. Overall, 5 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"A spiritual ride that gives you goose pimples. A must see!","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film that explores death and the possibility of contact with a departed soul. The film brings to mind James Redfield's Celestine Prophesy which says that a critical mass of spiritual activity is reached and manifested by a series of coincidences.The film has been made in a very interesting and thought provoking way. Kevin Costner has done an excellent job in this role.A magical ending brings goose pimples to you. This is a spiritual ride that should not be missed! "},{"Title":"Another film in search of a light bulb.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this film, I felt as though I were looking through blue cheesecloth. Every location is under-lit, and dark grey or blue, even hospital corridors. I know that the technique is for dramatic effect, but it just got cumulatively more annoying as the movie plodded along. "},{"Title":"a supernatural tale without the thriller part","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was OK even though Kevin Costner was in it. I didn't like the beginning because past events and current time were mixed together. It was confusing for a moment.  I did like the couple of scenes in the dark when Costner would hear a noise or see something spooky.  And the scenes where he talks with the children about near-death experiences were good.  One thing I didn't like was I could even figure out he needed to look at the photos, but he gets interrupted and doesn't look at them again till he figures out the clues.This is basically a ripoff of other supernatural thrillers that were much better.  The plot does get slow at points and once again Costner does some bad acting.FINAL VERDICT Nothing special.  And the ending can be figured out before you actually see it.  Only for those who really like ghost tales. "},{"Title":"Another ho-hummer from Costner","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Warning! May be plot spoilers ahead!For those seeking a creepy ghost story, as the trailers depict, you may be in for, well, a nap.  Dragonfly merely tiptoes up to the supernatural angle, then dances merrily away to become more of a redeemed love/it's a miracle story along the lines of What Dreams May Come.  Only Dragonfly does it with far less style and panache.Costner plays Joe Darrow (any play on the name Clarence Darrow?), an emergency room doctor whose wife is allegedly killed while traipsing with the natives in a remote jungle.  Darrow is devastated by his loss, but soon comes to believe that his wife may be trying to get in touch with him through her former child cancer patients at the same hospital.  Costner does an okay job of depicting the doctor-going-insane-from-grief role, but lends nothing else to the rest of the role.  Kathy Bates as his (lesbian?) neighbor is wasted talent in her small part.   Through these messages, Darrow is supposed glean the information that he's supposed to meet his wife at the place she supposedly dies, though we're not given the reasons why.  Unfortunately, we soon find out.  Dragonfly gives great tension build throughout the first half of the film, but that quickly crumbles once Darrow goes on his journey to find answers.  And watching Costner as Darrow emoting when he discovers the real reason he's been led away from his home was the most painful part of the entire film.  Better luck next time. "}{"Title":"The writers cheated us on this one","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I was very disappointed after seeing this movie and it has nothing to do with Costner's acting which was mediocre.  This movie was very contrived and they purposefully cheated us on several occasions.  For example - *****SPOILERS**** - Costner is told by a boy out of a coma that his wife wants him to go to the rainbow.  That night he gets a bunch of pictures that had been sent by his wife.  At this point, I expected to see a photo with a rainbow in it but did we?  No.  Instead, they felt the need to throw in an additional 30 minutes before he looks at the pictures again (after reviewing the map) and suddenly there's a picture with a rainbow in it.  Wouldn't he have noticed that the first time?  This is a really cheap tactic that I wish writer's and directors would get out of their system.  From that point on everything about the movie felt contrived.  Not worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Good thoughts","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If someone suggests you watch it, WATCH IT! If someone doesn't suggest you watch it, WATCH IT!!!MOST WONDERFUL!!! I begged my daughter to watch it....she was (too busy) her loss!...Mine too since now I'll have to buy it for her to make sure she takes the time to watch it! Ok, so the movie was a bit slow paced, I think they were trying to give you a build up to send you in the wrong direction. So KC didn't show a lot of emotion, sometimes people just can't let it go. It takes some people a long time to come to grips with the reality of losing a loved one. I think he played it well....he didn't know how to move on or whether to. I'm usually pretty good at figuring out (whodunit) but I was totally floored at the ending! SPOILER ALERT...IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT YET! DO YOURSELF A FAVOR AND STOP HERE!.....people keep on about, they hardly mentioned the baby...just a time or two...well, maybe there was a good reason for that...it may have helped you figure out the end had they kept it on our minds! I believe they wanted us to believe right up to the end that she was alive (but perhaps in that coma they talked about).  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film yesterday evening. Now, the day after,I have to say, that this movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Very good plot. Movie, in its moments very scary, and on the other hand so beautiful. Amazing end, very hard to predict until last minutes of the movie. Hard to say in couple of words. I would say Go and see it yourself. Don't let the bad reviews spoil it for you.  "},{"Title":"Dump on it all you want guys...you can't kill-off decency!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Is it me?  guess so.  I compare this film to another flick screening currently - UNFAITHFUL.  The latter, critically acclaimed and beloved of audiences worldwide - why????? A film that promotes not a solitary decent shred of humanity. A purposeless glorification of human weakness and deceit. Jeez, I'm no bible-basher...I've lusted in all the wrong places most of my life but I don't need to pay to see it thanks. I think MINE was the ONLY negative review of that film. Well lets root for the underdog again. Costner's DRAGONFLY sure ain't no work of art and hell, what if it IS some bodgied-up DANCES WITH GHOSTS, it offers not a solitary distasteful moment and is as honest an advertisement for hope and faith as a Billy Graham crusade.What the friggin' hell (sorry, but I'm REALLY wound-up about this) does it matter if the film lacks the artistry of Adrian Lyne? the dramatic depth of Diane Lane's arguably strong performance in UNFAITHFUL (though personally I found HER about as sexually appealing as Monica Lewinsky after 6 weeks intensive at Weight-Watchers) or the sentimentality of A WALK TO REMEMBER? DRAGONFLY is a totally unpretentious film and in my view, one that any decent person could get something out of.All the complaints that Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt were under-used. Huh? They gave what they were supposed to give, Hunt's little bit especially was a gem. I'm no devotee of Costner at all but I think he gave a really solid and credible performance here - probably his best since FIELD OF DREAMS...you wanna knock that one too while you're at it?For all its schmaltzy, unlikely, arguably even LAUGHABLE conclusion - I thought it was simply rather beautiful. The absolute last frame of the film was just exquisite. They captured just for that second, all the youth, beauty and innocence that childhood is all about. It was an inspired moment. Shame not one in 200,000 viewers has seen it!As for the idiots who claim DRAGONFLY is a rehash of THE SIXTH SENSE, you need therapy guys! It is about as similar to TSS as BEN HUR is to BAMBI! As for the rest of you, some of which liken it to THE MOTHMAN CONSPIRACIES - you're having yourselves on as film critics. What am I saying? you're having yourselves on - full stop!I personally believe the film pulls a 6.5 to 7, If by voting it a 10 I can offset just one no-brainer it will have been worth it. For what its worth let me just offer this opinion. If you are a hard-line realist - don't even think about seeing it - if you are a genuine romantic who believes in goodness and purity, you'll be ABLE to see it! "},{"Title":"Ghost - Lite","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Ever since it hit pay dirt with `Ghost' back in the summer of 1990, Hollywood has been fascinated with tales about dead people attempting to contact their grieving loved ones from beyond the grave.  The latest variation on the theme, a film called `Dragonfly,' turns out to be one of the sappiest entries in the genre.In the film, Kevin Costner, sporting a noticeable paunch for the occasion, plays Dr. Joe Darrow, a well-respected Chicago surgeon, whose wife dies in a bus accident while she is working as part of a Red Cross operation in rural Venezuela.  Almost immediately after her death, Joe begins to experience a series of strange phenomena that seem to suggest that the spirit of Emily may be trying to get in touch with her distraught husband in order to deliver some kind of profound message to him.  As in virtually all films of this type, Joe starts off, rather predictably, as an agnostic cynic, a by-the-book science type who pooh-poohs anything that he can't experience and verify through the use of his own five senses.  He needs, obviously, to be taught a lesson, to be shown that a reality exists beyond the scope of mere mortal comprehension.  And who better to teach him that lesson than a dead wife whom the doubter clearly loved and cherished?  Then, when he begins to come over to the other side, to actually start believing in the existence of a world beyond our own, he has a devil of a time trying to convince anyone around him that he is not simply going off his rocker as a result of the enormous psychic shock inflicted by his wife's death.To make this sort of nonsense palatable, one would need a lot more originality and depth than are exhibited here (two qualities that `Ghost' had in abundance, by the way).  Part of the problem is that this Grieving Widower Syndrome seems to have been done to death in the past several years, most recently in `The Mothman Prophecies,' which also featured a man getting in touch with the supernatural after the demise of his dearly beloved wife.  (Moths, dragonflies?  Is there a pattern here?)  This technique of killing off an adored spouse seems to have become the easiest and tritest way to achieve the `sensitive man' character that certain women seem to require for a successful romantic drama.  One wonders why men in movies seem to be this enamored of their wives only when the women themselves wind up dead.  In fact, the rule seems to be that the happier a marriage seems at the beginning of a movie, the more likely it is that one or the other of the spouses will be departing the scene not long after the opening credits have rolled by (usually determined by which of the two is the lesser star).`Dragonfly' tires hard to achieve an ethereal quality, but the mundane script keeps it relentlessly earthbound.  The film is neither suspenseful nor romantic nor intriguing enough to make it truly effective as either a thriller, a love story, a fantasy or &#150; as the film undoubtedly would prefer &#150; a combination of all three.   Instead, think of `Dragonfly' as merely `Ghost-Lite.'   "},{"Title":"The rise and dramatic fall of Kevin Costner or The depiction of a Hollywood actor falling from grace","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Let's see,say you are head of major motion picture studio,and you have this senstitive,soulful,supernatural love story that,if nutured properly,could turn out to be a commercial bonanza in the order of recent films like Demi Moore's 1990 hit,Ghost,and 1999's Oscar winner The Sixth Sense. Would you then turn around and hand the project to the guy who is notable for a string and primarily responsible for such inconsequential,ham-fisted works(which he is known for comedies not that) as Patch Adams,and Ace VenturaPet Detective? And then you take a major Hollywood star who hasn't had a decent flick in years and has falling from grace in movies who last successful feature won the Oscar in 1990 for Dances with Wolves which made him one of the most rising and powerful stars in cimema at the time,and then completely fall from grace with such classic duds as Waterworld,and not to mention last year's bomb 3000 Miles to Graceland,and many other to name a few. That's the kamikize approach here,with the story starts about a doctor(played by Kevin Costner)who believes his recently deceased wife may be trying to communicate with him is torpedoed by the oblivious efforts of director Tom Shadyac. That's not to say about the script by David Seltzer,Brandon Camp,and Micheal Thompson is very flawless when it is not difficult to figure out really that the picture has in store for us. But for a movie,that supposed to be about airy,ethreal elements(supernatural stuff mind you),this flick moves at a torrid pace and frequently undermines any notions of everlasting love by tossing in cheap scares more suitable to any underdeveloped teen horror flick yarn ever conceived. But as for Costner's performance here,the movie is nothing much than that,and I hope he find better scripts than this piece of junk,and presume status back in stride. "},{"Title":"*** You have to watch it for yourself! I loved it!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a combination of a thriller and a tearjerker. You'll love it! I think Kevin Costner is quite believable as a distraught husband who has to piece together the clues his wife leaves him.  I think involving children in a thriller always makes it that much more scary.  Bottom line two thumbs up, go watch this movie! "},{"Title":"An absorbing, intense film with an ending that I promise will surprise you!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly is the story of Joe Darrow, starring Kevin Costner, a young doctor in a hospital in Chicago, who loses his wife in a sudden and tragic accident.  Joe is grief stricken and is trying to find closure by fulfilling a promise he made to his wife (also a doctor)to visit her patients who are children in the oncology ward in the same hospital. Then, mysterious things begin to happen, signs that Emily his dead wife,(played by Susanna Thompson) is trying to reach him to tell him something important! The film deals with death, past lives, near death experiences and finally with what IS the urgent message from Emily! There are fine performances by the supporting cast, Kathy Bates, Linda Hunt and Ron Rifkin, but the film is carried by a heartfelt, excellent and sincere acting job by Kevin Costner.  The ending is a complete surprise and I am sure very few people could guess the outcome (the audience I saw the film with gasped and applauded at the conclusion which is very rare occurrence with sophisticated film audiences these days). I realize the critics didn't give Dragonfly good reviews but I think the people are going to prove them wrong and good word of mouth will keep Dragonfly around for many weeks!        "},{"Title":"This is one you've got to see...","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner was excellent in Dragonfly.  The movie made you think about life after death and about a loved one trying to contact you.  Towards the middle it picked up steam and the ending was excellent.  It brings tears to your eyes.  I would highly recommend this film to others. Keep up the great work Kevin!  We love you!! "},{"Title":"Quite A Trip","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie took me on a roller-coaster emotionally, and I was a bit weepy at the end.  The acting was excellent.  The movie, AS A MOVIE, was quite a trip.  I felt that the beginning and the ending were a bit rushed, and wondered what had been edited out there.  I also wondered a bit about the way the film-makers promoted it, as if it was something we should all take seriously.  Just go to see this movie AS A MOVIE, and you will have a good time. "}{"Title":"You own a talking parrot that doesn't speak to you. Average ghost film.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Dragonfly starts as red cross volunteer paediatric doctor Emily Darrow (Susanna Thompson) is killed while helping out in Venezeula when the bus she is traveling in takes a nosedive off a cliff into the river below, back in Chicago & her husband Dr. Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) is devastated & is finding it hard to get over the death of his wife. While on duty checking some of Emily's old patients he meets a young boy named Jeffery (Robert Bailey Jr.) who after claiming to have had a near death experience says he was contacted by Emily & wanted to tell him something important, more strange occurrences happen & Joe becomes convinced that Emily is trying to convey a message to him from beyond the grave...This American German co-production was produced & directed Tom Shadyac & is a pretty unremarkable Hollywood feel good ghost story that's nothing special. The script by David Seltzer, Brandon Camp & Mike Thompson probably was conceived as a supernatural ghost story with a twist that were all the rage after the phenomenal success of The Sixth Sense (1999) along with the likes of Bless the Child (2000), The Others (2001) & Gothika (2003) although none really matched it's success either commercially or critically & Dragonfly is no exception. The makers of Dragonfly have seemed to try & make this as tame as possible & go for a feel good almost uplifting film as opposed to a dark horror by down playing the supernatural angle, personally I think it's all rather silly & far too sentimental. I didn't think the twist ending worked especially well & there's not much entertainment value here. I'd have preferred the ghostly elements to have been played up a bit more & when you consider some of the deleted scenes listed in the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section it's obvious that more horror type footage was filmed & I'm at a loss as to why it was sanitised into a squeaky clean 'happiness come from travesty' moral message that I suppose is meant to depress you during the opening half of the film & then raise your spirits by the time it finishes. It's watchable for what it is I suppose but I'd have completely forgotten about it by the end of the week.Director Shadyac does OK but nothing more, there's no suspense, there's maybe two scenes are meant to scare you & there's a distinct lack of any sort of eerie atmosphere. The special effects are alright but nothing that memorable.I was amazed to see that this had a supposed budget of about $60,000,000 which is one hell of a lot of money considering what actually ended up on screen, there's no way this looks like a 60 million dollar film. It's well made & has that big budget Hollywood polish about it but there's nothing spectacular to it. The acting isn't the best, Costner does alright although I'm not a fan & hadn't seen any of his films since Waterworld (1995), an old looking Kathy Bates also turns up & is totally wasted.Dragonfly is an average Hollywood feel good type tear jerker that didn't do much for me although I will concede that it's watchable if nothing else, try to catch it on TV for free as it's not really worth parting with hard earned money for. Apparently this was remade as Saaya (2003) in India, the only question I would ask there is why? "},{"Title":"Shoots high, misses the mark","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film had high aspirations as a romance movie mixed with a psychic thriller. It shoots high, but tries too hard; it milks every bit of every scene for emotional impact. After a while, it bogs the story down.Kevin Costner, as a doctor still grieving over the recent loss of his wife, turns in a magnificent performance, and is the greatest strength of the movie. His depiction of a man being tormented and battling a plunge into insanity is characterized well.But director Tom Shadyac's overdone exercise in protracting every minute development of the story undermines Costner's work. When pediatric patients convey what appear to be messages from beyond, the director seems to think it's cute for the kids to give incomplete, incoherent, rambling, and puzzling witness to the bereaved doctor. He'll ask them questions to explain what they're talking about; they never give straight answers, and instead babble on incoherently about other gibberish that tells him (and you) absolutely nothing. He also calls in experts for assistance, notably a nun (a powerfully gentle performance by Linda Hunt), that also get him nowhere.I didn't believe for a minute a loving wife crying out to her suffering husband would engage in such torturous mental brutality, tantalizing and then disappointing him again and again. It seemed more like a treacherous demon was impersonating his wife to torment him and destroy what was left of this poor man.Or else the kids were in some sick conspiracy, as other characters including Costner's best friend (Kathy Bates), an iconoclastic lawyer, accuses. Incidentally, Bates should punch her hair stylist (and the director too, if this was his idea)-what were they trying to make her look like, Susquatch? In spite of this, she turns in a good performance, as always.You'll have to endure about an hour of the film buzzing around in circles, before the film grudgingly decides to resolve anything. When it finally does, the ending is awkwardly presented, but remains poignant and faithful of the story's intent. "},{"Title":"very conventional, thus boring","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Although I find the topic of the communication with the dead very interesting and also the overall plot quite ok the film is realised too conventional with a lot of predictable wannabe thrilling or just plain boring  parts. "},{"Title":"Interesting and fun!!","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I did not expect such a deep, concrete and technically sharp filmed film from Tom Shadyac, although I'm a great fan. Kevin Costner's interpretation of the character development of Dr. Joe is incredible. The suspense, thrill, drama and romance combination of genre Keeps the viewer at the edge of the seat, although there are a few scenes not needed but do not affect the film as a whole. The camera work as well as the lighting and score of the film, helps the viewer submerge into the emotions of the film really easy, and creates a roller coaster of emotions with an extraordinary ending. The theme of the film is very interesting and leaves thoughts in one's mind. Over all the film was enjoyable and recommendable. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A lot of people seem to be saying the same thing here. This movie surprised me. It snuck up on me. It transcended all its clichés. I agree, and there were plenty of clichés to transcend. This film runs against just about everything I believe about the world around me (www.cavemanlogic.com). It's full of supernatural claptrap that I wouldn't go for in a million years. Yet, despite all that, it's a hell of a piece of entertainment. I have no idea why it works so well. It almost embarrasses me to like it this much. I can see all the silliness and all the clichés from a mile away, yet the movie still grabbed me. And, my god, that's a cute baby at the end. "},{"Title":"dragonfly is a total winner","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I knew not what to expect, but what I got was a totally enthralling film that kept my eyes on the screen through the entire run. The subject is fascinating, whether or not you believe, and the story was 100% riveting. I had to pee and didn't even get up.Costner, as usual, is a winning actor and had a lot to carry in this film. The movie was especially interesting to me since I was literally 'dead' for about 3 minutes after a heart attack in'03. As far as I can remember, I saw nothing.So, the movie was a reminder but, with or without such an experience, it is a winner, a story well told and the scenery, and people in the final scenes were thoroughly convincing.As one reviewer noted, the picture doesn't end when you thought it would and, as excellent as this movie is, it was even better at the end.As you noted I gave it a 10, only because we can't go any higher. "},{"Title":"Great suspense film!","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" OK, so it isn't worth a 10 I admit (it's about a 7-8 in my book), but I simply can't believe it has a 5.8 on IMDb so I'm trying to boost it a little. There are so many garbage movies on IMDb (Jackass springs to mind) which have a higher rating than this really good movie that it's shocking!Kevin Costner plays a doctor whose wife travels to South America as part of a Red Cross aid mission (sort of like Doctors Without Borders type thing). While there and traveling on a bus along a treacherous road during a storm, a mud slide crashes into the bus, sending it barreling down the hill and presumably killing everybody. Costner's wife's body is never recovered by authorities and strange signs and stories from her pediatric oncology patients fuels Costner's belief that his wife is trying to communicate with him.The movie plays as it should; there is little 'pace' to it as such since the movie is about a husband's grief for his dead wife...how much pace do you expect? That said, there are some properly scary moments that will have the hairs at the back of your neck stand up and at the same time there is plenty of intrigue to keep you watching; eagerly awaiting what happens next.I thought Kevin Costner pulled in a very good performance in this movie. There's a real sense of genuineness in the way he portrays his character. Don't expect 'Best Picture' material here because then you will be disappointed. Make no mistake, this is a very good movie but it never intends to be an outstanding classic. Also, the movie is about communication with 'the other side' so please leave your 'this is not real' feelings at the door. Simply watch and enjoy the movie for what it is and I guarantee. you will not be disappointed.P.S. There are many reviewers here who moan and trash the movie for some things that happen in it (SPOILER eg. His wife's cancer patients having seen her while they were flat-lined) well what did you expect after the movie says it is about communicating with the other side?? If you don't like this type of genre or Kevin Costner, don't trash the movie just because you were dumb enough to go watch something you knew you weren't gonna like! Anyway, that's my little rant done with, rent the movie if you haven't already seen it I really do recommend it. "},{"Title":"Decent idea, boringly realised","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I had never heard of this Kevin Costner movie.He plays a Chicago doctor whose wife is killed while doing relief work in South America. He begins experiencing a series of incidents whereby she sends him cryptic messages from beyond death. Is he going mad or are they genuine? Well, I didn't mind the real or not plot element, and I didn't mind the wildly improbable resolution - and when I say wildly improbable, I'm probably understating the case somewhat.But there were two things I had trouble with. One of them is this whole business of messages from the dead - what's wrong with sending a message which the recipient can understand? Such messages were sent to children - This man will come to see you, you must tell him xyz - but the messages coming to Costner were gibberish - Here's a weird symbol - you must work out what it means, The parrot is going to go mental, Let's put all the clothes back in the wardrobe - no wonder everyone, including him, thought he was going mad.And the other was the fact that this movie is, how can I put it, slow. Once I've got the point then I would like you to get on with it, please, and deliver a bit more story instead of the same bit again. And again. And then a mild variation on it.So the idea was decent, the subject suited Costner's earnestness, but it was a bit of a snoozefest.Oh, and the ending was so ludicrous it made me laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Dreamy","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" DRAGONFLY, the title of which will make sense by the end of the film, is about a doctor (Kevin Costner) who has recently lost his wife in a South American bus crash. But is she really dead? The doc begins receiving messages from her through his patients. Seems she has some unfinished business with him. The second half of this surprisingly good flick takes Costner on an adventure in the jungle that could have been a whole film unto itself. What he finds waiting for him at the end of the trail is a real heart stopper. More a women's movie than a ghost thriller, DRAGONFLY is heartily recommended to those who prefer their ghost movies to have a strong romantic overlay. Costner is, as usual, excellent and carries the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Unbelievebaly unbelievable","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" An amazing thriller that goes against any kind of logic. Everything is wrong, resolutely wrong. A pregnant woman, a doctor mind you, decides to take a bunch of kids to the jungle deep in Venezuela on an adventurous sabbatical. An accident throws the school bus down into a river. No survivors. The husband, another doctor, is then the victim of visions, hallucinations, seizures of some kind that he very quickly interprets as signs from her trying to speak to him from where she is. He believes and thus is led to going back to where she died and to the village of Indians living at the foot of the waterfall where she met her fate. I won't reveal the end. The film is not interesting because of the thrilling suspense, nor because of the rather sentimental ending. It is interesting because of the way it describes the reactions of normal people in front of something, or someone that does not satisfy their expectations of what they call sanity. Anything or anyone that looks suspiciously insane in our society is at once rejected, becomes suspicious, and is supposed to be pushed aside into some kind of social sabbatical, or even worse is hassled by the guardians of normality in our social order, i.e. priests, and cops, and doctors. The point is that the story that supports this fact is so hectic and far-fetched that it gets the true fact down the chute along with the unbelievable elements in the story. Believing is essential, provided what is believed is believable. Otherwise the film becomes pure entertainment, and it is too somber to be pure entertainment.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"Dragonfly movie dedication","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The movie is dedicated to Katharine Curtiss (wife of Assistant Producer/First Assistant Director Alan Curtiss) who died during production. I wondered who Katharine Ann Curtiss was when I watched this movie, and saw at the end that it was dedicated to her. It took a little investigation but I did finally find out who she was. I enjoyed this movie a lot although I think it did drag somewhat in places. It could have developed the paranormal aspect more. But I always enjoy Kevin Costner. I wish that his wife could have still been alive at the end, maybe comatose or something. But then I like movies with happy endings, and you sure didn't see the ending coming in this one. I love movies about endless love (or love everlasting) whatever! It gives me hope, call me a hopeless romantic! "},{"Title":"Doctor's wife is killed in a Venezualan jungle accident.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Doctor begins to get weird images and events tied to near death experiences, but sceptically rejects them. Finally comes to accept that dead wife may be trying to contact him and goes to Venezuala in search of her burial site. A well acted, nicely photographed touching movie. But way, way too many unnatural clues hit our hero over the head, totally dazing me, if not Kevin Costner, before he gets the idea the audience has long since grasped. This redundancy (or lack of writer's ability to invent connected set pieces) destroys an otherwise interesting movie. The failure of the wife's birthmark, repeated ad nauseum in images drawn by hospital patients, to even faintly resemble a dragon fly was not saved by the reveal that the mark in fact was the cartographer's symbol for a waterfall. Costner, who was compelled to spend far too long drowning, especially to have been able to briskly recover and run like a jack-rabbit to his denouement, deserved far better than this. However, I simply must see Kauai before I pass on. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film has the wow factor, A gripping storyline that leaves you wandering from beginning to end what will happen.Two doctors madly in love and expecting there first baby, It all seemed perfect until his wife decided to go off to Africa to aid the needy. In a tragic accident his wife's body was never found. Grieving for the loss of his wife he begins to experience some very strange happenings. Everyone around him believe he is going insane but he follows his heart and and try's to unravel the mystery messages from his deceased wife. The ending is just fantastic and not what you expect to happen at all. A must watch film. "},{"Title":"All the elements of a great movie.","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" From a great cast to well done locations, I was amazed that I hadn't heard more about this movie. I'm really amazed that there are several comments from people who didn't like the movie. Did we see the same movie?? I think some people have lost the ability to enjoy a movie. They just nitpick it to death for some unimportant imperfection. (the time on their watches was different -- see!!) Hey, you're watching a movie, right? The best part of this movie is how it captures the heart of those of us with a high EQ - Emotional Quotient. Here's a topic that rests on everyone's heart - what comes after death, and can we reach those we love that have passed on. What an ending - not a predictable film cliché, but.....no, I won't spoil it. Watch this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"They selled it as a thriller","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" - but as a thriller is mediocre. Looking at the cover one expects suspense, spine-chilling. My impression was that this ingredient was put by force in a potentially good movie about feelings/love after death/NDE (near death experience) because they wanted to sell it as a thriller. The disappointment of many people is so justified.Nevertheless I found this movie well written. My congratulations to David Seltzer, Brandon Camp and Mike Thompson. They succeeded to paint a story from different points of view, talking about NDE in a colorful but neat and profound Way. I assume that they they are smart enough to understand that the thriller element is a crap. They were probably ordered to fit it inside Tom Shadyak -the director - was quite accurate but sometimes I found his visual choices weak.Kevin Costner is an icon. It's not really important if he can or he can't act.To the producers - if they are the ones who forced the thriller element - goes a 5. Great movies need a little bit of courage. In all the movies they produced there is little courage. The results are not so exciting, even with the incomes (apart for some exceptions like Ace Ventura).Anyway I give this movie a 7. Being interested in NDE, I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"One of Costner's Best","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Well, I'm writing this comment in defense of the movie. One critic said the movie was too long, and the other comment was a spoiler. I agree that the movie was no 10 (very few are), but I thought it was a well-done movie for its genre, which I agree was NOT a horror.How would the dead contact the living? They would not be able to just sit down and talk to us. Many psychics say that their visions are confusing and could be misinterpreted. The movie makes good use of this. Joe (Costner) says that his wife is trying to contact him -- nobody believes him. His friends and co-workers think that he is so grief-stricken that he's not thinking straight -- that maybe it's wishful thinking.As for the end . . . a lot of movies have unbelievable endings so don't criticize this one for that alone. There had to be a very good reason for his wife to try contacting Joe from beyond the grave. I think this ending was unexpected and satisfying. "},{"Title":"keeps you wondering","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie has got it all. Thrills, chills, and questionable scenes that keep you begging for more. In a good thriller, there's a theme that takes off in the beginning and keeps giving you clues until you think you've figured out the whole story. Then, something else happens and changes around your whole idea of the movie. This movie has a great actor, a great plot line, and a great ending. This is a movie that you'll definitely give a two-thumbs-way-up.Many can probably relate to this supernatural thriller and realize that it is not only scary, but it has a heart built into it. 10/10*. When someone dies...are they really gone forever? "},{"Title":"It kind of reminded me of Signs only without the Aliens and Mel","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I wondered if Mel would have done any better with this picture. Anyway, this picture was good but Signs was better. Unfortunately, I was watching this picture on a Sony Watchman with 5 other people on an outside deck so I lost the full effect of the movie so I can't give you a real good critique in my honest opinion. What I did get out of this is that it will make you think and make a lasting impression on you for a long time. I assure you it will make you want to see it again. I can't wait to see it again in the dark with just my husband. I know it will spook him. It will spook you. So go see it in the theater or late at night preferably with your honey, or with someone you love like a relative. No disturbances-make sure the kids are asleep. AND BELIEVE THERE IS AN AFTERLIFE "},{"Title":"Generally, I liked this movie... but was a little disappointed","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I was never sure what to think of this movie from the very beginning. I thought I had the ending figured out early on but was surprised when it came and I was wrong.I don't know who is responsible for this kind of problem (director, screen writer...etc), but I think the movie was trying to be two different kinds of movies. On the one hand it was trying to be a thriller and on the other hand it was trying to be a relationship/character type. Because it was trying to be both.. it didn't get either one as well as it could have if it had focused on only one.I would classify this movie as a mixture of The Sixth Sense, Field of Dreams and a little Golden Child for good luck.I would have liked it much more if they would have down played the thriller side and developed the characters more... even if they had just extended the end longer... "},{"Title":"great movie, special for seeing at 1/2night!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" this movie was very good. especially if it leaves of the same one it was filmed in my country (Venezuela), that whole drama with the children in the hospital, the case of parrot, and the signs that showed through dragonflies (usually called here caballito del diablo) they give to the movie a special and brilliant touch. The part that is in Venezuela (Puerto Ayacucho, Amazonas State) it is one of the wildest, humid and dangerous areas in the country, not only for their exuberant beauty and strange amazon fauna, but for the danger of the gangs, drug dealers and indigenous tribes that they make tension in that area of the country. These indigenous tribs has always been characterized to be very strict and isolated, for that reason one gets the attention when Costner goes to the tribe and all the present Indians go with kind of a preventive attack which is saved by the oldest in the tribe. Of so many movies recreated in Venezuela, this it is one of the most notorious, especially our customs that of for part, they spread to be very disturbing, for example in the scene of the light plane, which the type that managed it was not an expert (in few words, here anyone can make things of this type without being captured in places so secret as that), and other things that they characterize to our country that I won't name because the comment has been already large.In conclusion, the movie is very good, but for certain details, I vote for it 7/10 "}{"Title":"A Hack Version of Sixth Sense","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  From my perspective, this movie was made to cash in on the positive buzz surrounding 'The Sixth Sense'.  Its as if an incompetent apprentice watched the work of a master and thought he could do the same job.  That is why most people found some parts to be plodding.  While in the original, the lengthy close up shots of the actors built on the suspense, in this movie they just seemed to add to the dull timing of the movie.You know how foreign movies have subtitles for people that can't follow the dialog.  This movie provides the same thing for people that can't follow a thriller.  We'll call them 'Thriller Subtitles'.  Obvious lines like 'The bird only talked when she walked in the door.'  Then, a short time later the bird says 'Honey, I'm home'.  This movie didn't have an original twist in it. "},{"Title":"Long and ruff, the weighted average didn't work?","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Well IMDb, you probably don't want to post this one, but your weighted average, instead of being corrective, is very biased and slanted.  The IMDb rating, arithmetic mean and median are far closer than soooo many other movies I've checked.  Yet there is such reason here for bias and an adjustment, down.  The Demographics show girls under 18 and IMDb liked it.Primarily, it was a bomb, so the only people to see it were KK fans.  Apparently it was billed as a Sci-Fi thriller, which it wasn't.   This, among many other things, the director, just couldn't figure out how to handle. His resume may explain, as this is not his venue, Liar Liar, and Ace Ventura are.  It was just another rollout of Hollywood clichés and director's school 101 technique, which rarely ever worked, Kathy Bates pulls a few scenes into a semi professional realm.  There were times I wanted it too work, and I wish I could just call it `sentimental sugar-coated' as one comment did, but `annoying', `beyond belief ` or `SO STUPID', work better  I wasn't expecting the ending, as maybe I wasn't too involved.  Susanna Thompson said her favorite scene was cut out.  Likely after the movie was done, when it didn't work, at least they didn't want to give away the ending, so, cut, cut, cut.  Waste your time if you want, I did.  "},{"Title":"BAD BAD BAD!!!!!!!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  At first, I thought this dreadful film was a tongue in cheek parody, but unfortunately, as it unfolded, this turned out not to be the case.A doctor (Costner) whose wife has died recently starts to believe that she is trying to contact him from beyond the grave. Cue for a silly plot that meanders interminably for what seemed to me like hours and which culmintaes in a laughable ending. A real piece of junk that belongs in the bargain bin. Avoid! "},{"Title":"Listening to the Voice of Death","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Dragonfly was directed by Tom Shadyac in 2002.  The film was mixed with science fiction, thriller, and drama.  Dr. Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) and wife Dr. Emily Darrow (Susanna Thompson) work at a well-known hospital in Chicago.  While she specializes in pediatric oncology, he is the head chief medical doctor in the emergency room.  Occassionaly, Emily takes trips to Africa to help men, women, and children who are unable to afford healthcare. At nearly nine months pregnant, she was needed by the people in Africa. Joe dissapproves of her going and insists she stay home in case she delivers the baby.In spite of how her husband feels, she heads to Africa without him. The weather turns for worst where she is located and the entire village is evacuated.  In the midst of evacuation, the bus Dr. Emily and the people were on, rolls off the cliff and into the river below.  A native village nearby attempts to rescue, but they were only able to free Dr. Darrow. Although there were unable to save her, the saved the unborn child.Joe tries his best to function as normal, but he does not take time to grieve his wife's death.  He returns to work as if nothing has happened. Before his wife passed away, the promised one another to look after their patients if something were to happen to either one of them.  One night, he falls asleep on the pediatric oncology floor.  One of his wife's patients was being brought in by the medical staff unconscious.  The staff was trying to revive him, and they were having no success.  He heard the child call his name over and over.  Joe, Joe can't you hear me, Joe.  Naturally, he followed the staff to confirm if what he was hearing was real.  All the monitors on the child showed flat lines, no heart beat.  Finally, the child responds to their treatment, and his heart begins beating.The following afternoon, he returns to the child and questions him. The child asked him if he was Emily's Joe and told him she sent him back to tell Joe something.  All over the room were drawings of a curvy cross.  No one knows the meaning.  In another child's room, he saw the same drawing and still no one understands.  When he arrives at home, his parrot goes into a rage.  The parrot knocks out the light, and when Joe goes to the window, he sees a dragonfly flying.  There is no light around, yet it still flies. His wife always had a  passion for dragonflies.  She had a birthmark on her back which reminded her of a dragonfly.Days pass by, and Joe still does not know what is taking over his life. His neighbor and long time friend, Mrs. Belmont (Kathy Bates), tries to bring him back into reality and has no success.  The breaking point in his life occurs at the hospital.  He is alone with a clinically dead patient awaiting for a brain transplant, and he believes his wife spoke through the patient.  Joe tries to stop the surgical procedure, and security is called to arrest him.  Mrs. Belmont bails him out of jail on special conditions. He decides to sell the home and go on vacation.  While packing away his wife's belongings, the light in the room burns out.  When he returns, all the belongings packed away were back in its original place.  He believes he is losing his grip on life, and in despiration he pleas for help.He takes trip to the African village were his wife spent her last days. Somehow, he believes if he could find out where the accident took place, he might get closure.  Joe finds the accident location and jumps into the river where the bus remained.  He enters the  bus, and the buse moves further down the river.  Water is building higher and higher until it reaches the top. Then, a bright light appears, and his wife is visible.  She reaches her hand out, and the connect.  The events of her final hours flash before him.  He is rescued out of the bus, and at that moment closure began.When he returns back to the village, a woman walks up to him and begins speaking in an unknown language to him.  The gentleman which brought him to the village translates.  She leads him into one of the huts, and inside is an infant unclothed.  The child his wife was caring for survived the accident.  Immediately tears began to flow from his eyes.  The woman shows him a birthmark on the child.  It is in the shape of a dragonfly on the inside of her lower leg.  As he embraced the infant, he began to think of the memories of his wife.Although the events of this movie have been modified, the file is fact based on a true life experience.  He returns back to the U.S. to rebuild a life for he and his child.  This film taught me several things  love, life, and trust.  Joe loved his wife with all is heart.  He lived for her.  He trusted her.  By valuing in their beliefs and trusting in their faith, he was able to listen to her voice in death.  "},{"Title":"Very good for it's Genre","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"     For the arena of movies Dragonfly is set within (that being, those of supernatural return-to-earth movies) this one is certainly at the top. As far as movies all around, probably not one of the greatest of all time.   But let's get to the point. Stand-alone, this movie was actually very good. I think a lot of people may have missed the point here; the concept of the movie, as stated by Sister Madeline, is that the things we think we see may act together to create what we do see. *Potential Spoilers Ahead*   What does that mean, you might ask? Simply this; too many people are watching the movie and saying yea right and whatever to what happens, but that's the point. It is conceivable that half the stuff Costner saw in the movie never happened nor was ever seen. He just imagined it. But, he wanted to find his wife, and sought to connect with her somehow. Of course, he found his child in this, which may be a bit of a stretch, but I don't think that was the point. The point in finding the child was just to show that even when someone dies, there is always something left of them here.    Ultimately, the movie makes you think, and wonder, at what could be out there. If we payed attention to some of the things that happen to us, what might we find? Is it possible for people to be contacting us? Anyhow, that's my rebuttale against some of the strong comments against this movie that I have read. But here's the real review.- The Good News    1. Costner is by no means bad. I've seen better from him, but he plays a very passionate character who, above all else, just wants to see his wife one more time. He is very believable, and you are basically sitting there hoping he meets her again as well.    2. Kathy Bates has always been astounding as an actress who can pull off so many varied roles. She does it again. The powerfully supportive friend who says it as it is and what needs to be heard. You leave the movie trying to figure out which of your friends is most like her.    3. Originality is a huge thing for this movie. At this time in cinema history, it is ALMOST impossible to develop a movie that has absolutely no relation to any other. Though this movie can be compared to many others, it really has a few points that let it stand on its own, particularly the concept of not quite dead as opposed to the dead reaching out to their loved ones. We don't know until the end that the wife has passed.    4. Length. What a perfectly timed movie. So many lately are either too long or too short, such potentially good movies that either drag or need more. This one HIT THE DOT as far as time constraints go.   And, the Bad News -     1. It probably could have used a little less scare factor ... the movie was teetering on deciding if it wanted to be sci-fi, romantic, or horror. Take away the horror aspect, and the sci-fi romantic twist would have been incredibly powerful.    2. A little more character relation could have been nice in the marriage of Emily and Joe. We know they were married, and anyone who has even been in love knows how far it can drive you, so Joe's emotions are expressed (by Costner) very accurately; however, the particular relationship between Emily and Joe is not too developed, besides the aspect of the dragonfly as being their thing. It's nice, but it could have been developed better.   Ultimately, the pro's certainly overweight the cons for this movie, and I give it a 7.5-8/10, and I teeter between the two because of the question of genre ... if I look at this as a sci-fi romance, it gets the eight, but I can't push that attempted scare factor out of my mind which keeps pulling it down. But still, see it, and see it for yourself; this movie is so different that you will need to make your own decision. "},{"Title":"Overblown and too long--but OK","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Costner's wife dies in a bus crash in Venezula. He throws himself into his work (he's a doctor), without really coming to grips with her death. He starts seeing signs that his wife is trying to contact him...but is she? Or is he cracking up?This was advertised as a horror film when it came out in 2002. Understandably, it bombed. It's NOT a horror film. It's a drama about a man coming to grips with his wife's death, faith and life after death. There's a little of the supernatural thrown in but not enough to make it a horror movie. SPOILER AHEAD!! It turns out his wife is trying to contact him...but keeps giving him obscure clues that would confuse anyone! Why isn't she clearer? Oh that's right--because then there'd be no movie. It got annoying when I realized that. Also there's a thunderous music score telling you exactly how to feel, the movie is much too long and the ending was beyond belief--it was SO STUPID!!!! I really thought they were kidding.Still, it is well-done with good, atmospheric direction. Also Costner is surprisingly good (I've never liked him) but everyone else is wasted--especially Kathy Bates. Also the scenes of the kids in near-death experiences are way too extreme for a PG-13 movie.I'm giving it a 5--and that's only for Costner's acting and the direction. "},{"Title":"This movie is SOOOO overrated!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  All I can say about this ridiculous and pathetic movie is that it gets to all your nerves and makes you want to hit Kevin Costner for his bad acting and his bad criteria when it comes to script's selections. Dragonfly is a film about nothing, that tries hard to rip-off The sixth Sense, but fails amazingly.¿A romantic movie? It is not.  ¿A scary movie? Don't make me laugh! ¿A comedy? Well, the idiotic story will make you laugh, but more at it than with it.All the clichés in the world are mixed in this movie, which surprising end could be anticipated from the very beginning. I really doubt of Costner's capabilities if he ever thought that he could bring up his sorry career with this tedious and lame movie.If anyone should fly is not the dragon, it's Costner. Kevin, please fly away from Hollywood, as far as you can get! We all will thank you!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding! Deserves a much better rating. Much more than a romantic movie!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  We really don't understand the low rating of this movie. We would give it at least an 8. One reviewer stated that the ending was far-fetched! HELLOOOOO. It's a movie!  Ever see Star Wars, Jaws, Harry Potter? If we're not mistaken, those were far-fetched. The acting was up to par for Costner, Bates and Hunt. They're always superb.Dragonfly was quite Hitchcockian in its use of suspense--no gore, no guts, no creatures. It was also not a predictable movie! We thought we had it figured out, but were surprised several times.See this movie with an open mind!  If you do, possibly the ending (and the movie plot) won't be far-fetched at all!  If you are closed-minded, you should still enjoy it as an entertainment vehicle--which we think is the purpose of movies. Get some popcorn and enjoy! "},{"Title":"A fine supernatural movie","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe there should be a law against the I-Hate-Kevin-Costner Club writing reviews of his movies, because I find their comments invariably critically illiterate and completely unhelpful. They may be superb movie critics every other time, but when it comes to a Costner movie the mere presence of their bete noire makes the red haze close in, blinding them to the movie itself.What Dragonfly is is a supernatural romance, pure and simple. (There are no sci-fi, or sf, elements in it.) The story itself is pure and simple as well; if you break it down to its elements it has the plot of a short story, not a novel. But it's a very good short story, well worth telling.And it's in the telling that this movie really excels. The supernatural elements are kept surprisingly low-key; the chills come from subtlety, not melodrama. The pacing is beautifully slow and measured, allowing the viewer to become completely absorbed in the tale and its atmosphere. The camerawork is fittingly superb; there are some astonishingly beautiful frames here. A couple of superb supporting performances stand out Kathy Bates as the tough but obliging and good-hearted neighbour and Jacob Vargas as an Ecuadorean pilot, who seems at the outset to be just a two-dimensional stereotype but, in a small amount of screen time, manages to give his character surprising depth. Jacob Smith, too, deserves mention for his very small role. Costner himself plays his part extremely well and convincingly; maybe those who criticize him for seeming flatness in the first two-thirds of the movie have never observed the way some people react to grief.If you enjoyed Field of Dreams you should enjoy this. If you thought Field of Dreams was just a dumb sports movie then, well, there's not much hope for you you won't enjoy Dragonfly either. "},{"Title":"Dragonfly 7/10","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  There's another addition to my list of `critically panned movies that I found quite good.' Some include John Q. and Blood Work. Dragonfly is a slow but never boring supernatural tale of true love (what else?), directed by Bruce Almighty's Tom Shadyac. This is his first non-comedic work, and it really works, but I'll get to that later.Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) is an ER doctor whose wife recently died in Venezuela. A promise that he made to her was to look after kids in the hospital, since she was a nurse there. A few of the kids there who had near-death experiences tell him that his wife was trying to reach him, and, lo and behold, he sees a few things that may say that she either isn't dead or is trying to reach and contact him. Could it be, or is Joe just delusional after losing his wife?This is one of the more effective dramas I have seen for a long time. Not only does it work as a romantic drama, but there was also a good deal of mystery and suspense. Is Joe really seeing images, et al, of his dead wife, or isn't he? Most movies can't really juggle more than one or two genres, but Dragonfly has drama, romance, thriller, sci-fi, and mystery all rolled into one.I never thought I would say this, but Kevin Costner delivers a very good performance. He portrays love for his wife, and distress when she's gone, and balanced the two very well. Kathy Bates, in her small roll as Joe's neighbor, is underused, but with what she had, she did well. Bates is one of the most underrated actresses out there.As I said before, Shadyac did a great job directing. He put tension in a scene where Joe was sitting down and he hears someone calling his name. We don't know where it's coming from, or if it's in his head. Shadyac puts in a couple things that jump out and scare us (which I thought as odd, since it's a slow moving drama), but all of it added to the almost noir-ish feel of the movie.However, where Dragonfly loses points is the last twenty minutes or so. It doesn't really have much to do with the first 80 minutes, and is unsatisfactory. Overall, you probably won't like Dragonfly, but I sure did.My rating 7/10Rated PG-13 for thematic material and mild sensuality. "}{"Title":"I tried to HATE this movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  But I couldn't. Something about this movie was really good, I am just not sure what it is!!  Kevin Costner continues to play a man who talks in the same tone in every scene.  He is really good though when he goes to South America and is piloted by the gang member from Next Friday.  All in all, this is a good movie if you're into the near death experience thing!!! "},{"Title":"It was watchable.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  For a supernatural flick, it was okay. I watched it mainly for a time-killer and late at night. For my purpose, it was perfect. It may be a little farfetched and unbelievable at times, but Kevin Costner does a good job as the doctor whose wife died. It is definitely NOT the best movie ever made, but it serves it's purpose as a time-killer late at night. I give it 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner hasn't lost it","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner really hasn't been in a new superhit movies lately. I wonder why because he has always been a charismatic and convincing actor. Luckily that doesn't mean he doesn't make good films anymore. Dragonfly was from last year and in my opinion, this movie was very interesting and entertaining. It's hard to believe that this actually is a work of a wacky comedy director Tom Shadyac, bloke behind Ace Ventura Pet detective, The Nutty professor and Liar, liar. I wouldn't really want to call this a horror flick although it has lots of those creepy elements but as a psychological suspense film Dragonfly is nearly a perfection. At least I was constantly jumping in my chair when I watched it and usually I'm just yawning when I'm looking at a traditional horror movie. Worth a rent, definitely. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I am also surprised at the responses to the movie. I agree that some Costner films can be goofy but this one was brilliant! It was what all thrillers should be, vague at the right moments, which made it even creepier. The plot was good; you have absolutely no idea what is going to happen in the end. Good acting by Costner capped off this v.good thriller. 7/10. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry..? 5.8..?","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Well, now i'm really thrilled.When I first started watching Dragonfly I was already with low expectations because of the miserable rating that the movie has here in the imdb site.For more that I searched in the web, I only found out reviews about the movie saying how bad it is, but despite what everyone said, i simply decided that i still should watch it.I simply love thrillers and ghost stories, and everything I heard about Dragonfly sounded perfect to me.And now I'm happy. I don't care what people say about Kevin Costner's bad acting. I didn't think it was THAT bad. I think some people are just being mean, now the reason why, i really don't know.Dragonfly is a touching story (ok, it won't exactly make you cry but it has it's meaning) and overall it's well done. It has a good soundtrack, some spooky moments, and a very good ending in my opinion.Yes, I know, my comment here didn't help a thing for those who are seeking help about if they should see the movie or not, so I'll just simply say this. Watch it, and then make your own conclusions. They say the movie sucks, I say the movie rules. )8/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised (by film AND by Kevin Costner)","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I see a few people really didn't like this movie.  Under normal circumstances, I  can't stand Kevin Costner's acting.  I thought he was REALLY good in this.  For  those of you who say this movie is too preachy - huh?  I'm not religious at all.  I  DID think this was a spiritual flick, but I didn't feel like it was trying to preach to  me.  Oh well - live and let live.  Personally, I LOVED it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Despite a lot of comparison with this and the Mothman Prophecies, these really do play as two different films and in my opinion this is the better of the two.The basic story centres around Kevin Costner's character losing his wife in a bus crash, while she is abroad working as a doctor. Her body is never found, and then strange paranormal events occur to Costner following her death. Costner becomes obsessed with trying to discover why these events are occurring, in particular a strange symbol that appears in various guises.The story plays a little like a ghost story, but obviously with philosophical levels as well. Costner was surprisingly good and emotive, in probably the best role I have seen him play. The plot is also interesting and reasonably well paced, if a little slow at times, but this lends to building a good atmopshere towards the end of the film. "},{"Title":"it was cool for what it was","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I think that the movie Dragonfly was cool, the ending maybe a little contrite and not entirely believable, it's too cheesy, something we've all seen before, but other than that, I enjoyed it. I liked the way of using the sqiggly cross (map symbol)to indentify where she spent the rest of her last days.  "},{"Title":"A movie about the supernatural, which is actually... good!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I really do not understand why the critics gave this movie such a hard time. It is beautifully directed, the cast includes Oscar winners, and the script does not bore you for a change.It deals with the loss that death brings, how some people cope with grief, and reminds us that it does not matter if heaven exists as long as we believe in it. Belief brings comfort to our hearts, and sometimes even miracles happen...This movie has quality. It is not for the first year in college students ) If you liked 6th Sense and Frequency, rent this one. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was wonderful! A haunting, feel good kind of movie. One that I would recommend and add to my collection. Don't try to analyze it, just sit back with an open mind and enjoy it's pure entertainment value...and who knows, it just might get you wondering........!! "}{"Title":"Muddled","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Another stab at a variant on SIXTH SENSE, and not a particularly good one. It is about as good as MOTHMAN PROPHECIES, which is not saying much. It is better than WHAT LIES BENEATH, but that's not saying much either. Costner's big revelation -- what the film is all about -- comes much too late in the picture.  "},{"Title":"Dragonfly","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly, is a Universal & Spyglass picture, directed by Tom Shadyac, starring Kevin Costner and featuring Oscar winners Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt.  Dragonfly, is a supernatural thriller full of surprises that keeps the audience guessing throughout the entire movie.  It begins with the violent death of Emily Darrows (Linda Hunt).  Her husband Joe Darrows (Kevin Costner) is distraught over her death.  They are unable to find her body, which raises the question; `is she really dead?'  Joe is confronted by a series of impossible coincidences, unsettling encounters, and haunting messages.  Joe becomes desperate to find out what these messages mean. Then he begins to suspect the shocking truth, that Emily is trying to tell him something.  In a final shattering revelation, he will make a most astonishing discovery. The director's goal was met in Dragonfly, being both thrilling and suspenseful.  The visual, sound and special affects set the mood for this movie.  The pouring rain and overcast sky, the wind blowing right before each supernatural event, added a depressing note to each scene.  The intensity of the music leading into each encounter was riveting.  The director (Tom Shadyac) kept me hanging on until the very end, with the suspense of what Joe was about to discover about Emily.  The cast gave incredible performances in this movie.  Kevin Costner is ideal for this part.  He has such a seriousness about him.  The entire cast gave stunning and realistic performances, which brought this movie to life. Dragonfly was a heart-stopping thriller, serving its purpose well. What I liked most about Dragonfly, is that it kept me on the edge of my seat--from beginning to end--with all of its suspense.  My curiosity is aroused, when I wonder what Joe is going to find out about Emily.  The film makes twists and turns, and it kept me guessing until the end.  The supernatural events were frightening and shocking.  Dragonfly made my heart race.  "},{"Title":"Life After Death","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Spoiler Alert Tom Shadyac's film Dragonfly is a terrific movie that will have you crying as well as spooked before reaching the end.  Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) is grieving the loss of his wife Emily Darrow (Susanna Thompson) when she is pronounced dead after a bus crash in Venezuela.  Although there is a funeral, Darrow still wonders if his wife is really gone or could she be reaching him from the dead? As Darrow visits the children in the hospital, they all have one particular picture which is significant to Emily that she wants Joe to understand. Ironically only the children recently experiencing a near death situation have this information for him.  The children have the picture of what seems to be a squiggly cross hanging up all over in their rooms. Not only is he seeing signs of Emily at work, but also at home their pet bird is speaking in Emily's voice saying `Honey I'm home..'.  A paperweight of a dragonfly that Darrow had packed away is suddenly out on the table again.  With all these constant reminders, Darrow feels there is a reason why she is still trying to reach him.  Trying to find this reason out is driving him nuts, and his life is slowly falling apart. His friends are trying to help him move on and invite him to go on a rafting trip with them.  The neighbor lady (Kathy Bates) tries to assure him that Emily is gone and going on this trip would help him to free his mind. Even though he will not listen to his friends, they try to help him through this in every way.  Finally, Darrrow finds an answer to all this confusion by looking through the brochures for his rafting trip.  What seems to be a squiggly cross ends up being the sign for a waterfall.  Darrow quickly goes to the waterfall Emily could be talking about.  When he arrives there, a spectacular ending to this film leaves the audience relieved that he has now completed her wish, and he can move on with his life. "},{"Title":"Costner should know better!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner is again playing the grieving widower but in this one he's so damn gullible. Every kid that has a life and death situation tells him his dead wife Emily is trying to contact him and he automatically believes it. Where's his common sense? The guy is a doctor and doesn't believe in the afterlife so why now would he believe in such wild stories? The kids are right, but thats not my point. Costner still shouldn't buy into it. I have to admit I did kind of enjoy the ending. Its incredibly hokey and sappy and icky gooey feel good but I still thought it was original. If someone told me they really enjoyed this film as a guilty pleasure, I wouldn't argue with them. It's manipulative and corny but I can't hate this film. Nothing about it rings true but the script is very ambitious. Not a good film and I cannot recommend it but it does have something, What that is I'm not sure! "},{"Title":"When strange things happens...","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The story follows THE SIXTH SENSE but without reaching such a success. Sometimes the ghost is simply too ridiculous for example when the doctor´s dead wife makes an appearance. But the scenes with the coma children I found very scary and convincing. I have a little difficult to critic this film but I think that´s Hollywood. I liked especially the last third of the movie and I was surprised that there was anyway a little happy end. If you liked this one don´t miss RANDOM HEARTS. I think Dragonfly it´s an average movie and that´s why I give only 6/10.  "},{"Title":" Joseph!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner is inspiring as Joseph in this admirable suspense film. The following cast is incredible. The costumes are quizzical. One of the good flicks in the genre, Dragonfly will sting the viewer with attention. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  Despite the reviews of the other users on IMDB (what's wrong with you guys???), I thought this movie was great. Well done and a great story line!!WATCH THIS FILM... I PROMISE YOU, YOU WILL LOVE IT. "},{"Title":"Starts Slow, But Picks Up Speed","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Not a movie of any great significance, Dragonfly nevertheless has enough going for it to make it worth watching. It isn't especially original. The idea of a loved one speaking from the other side has been done to death (no pun intended) but there are sufficient twists and turns to keep the viewer guessing as to exactly what's happening right up to the end (I must say it was an end that I thought was just altogether too perfect.)There are two primary weaknesses here that I saw. The first was a rather slow start that had me wondering why I bothered with the rental. But it does pick up after a while. The second was Kevin Costner as Dr. Joe Darrow, whose wife is killed in a tragic accident in South America. He just didn't seem to be comfortable in the role, and to me at least everything about Darrow seemed forced and I never developed much sympathy for him as a result.Those things aside, it's a reasonably decent suspense flick worth looking at.6/10 "},{"Title":"A worthwhile movie for those interested in near death experiences.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Those who are interested in near death experiences will find an interesting, sympathetic, sensitive treatment of the issues.   Those who have listened to late night talk shows, or day time interview shows on these experiences will recognize all the familiar points of view, pro and con.It is an interesting meditation on the phenomenon of near death experience.  It draws heavily on accounts of near death experiences and it is interesting to see someone try to weave these accounts into a believable, albeit, Hollywood treatment of the subject.I think this movie is not for everyone.  I am not sure we can always trust the judgment of a general audience on films of this kind. Mainstream audiences might find it hard to take, for whatever reason. Those interested in the subject will probably find much to enjoy about it--if they can sit still through the lines of the unsympathetic, antagonistic characters in the story.  "},{"Title":"An Injustice To Be Rated So Low","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I honestly do not know what is wrong with the average IMDB voter to have rated this movie 5.8 (as of 6 Oct 2002). That is a rating deserved for movies like Scooby-Doo and Face-Off and other mindless pap that's forced on us by a sold out Hollywood with no stories left to tell and a numb audience with no desire for tales of faith and life. I know that's why I repeatedly avoid any movie that appears to have an advertising budget rivaling a presidential election campaign. Fortunately word of mouth still reveals the classics and the weekend box-office does not. That was the case with golden heart-felt movies that have withstood the test of time such as It's A Wonderful Life and hopefully time will reveal this movie to be a much better gem than what it is currently seen for. It's a travesty that most other voters probably can't even conceptualize what I'm talking about. For those of you who are considering this movie, disregard the thoughtless and meaningless comments most other voters have written about this movie, go see it, and save your soul. To the rest of you, Scooby-dooby doo! "}{"Title":"A pretty good movie )","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly was a great movie. Far from what I expected, but great. In the beginning of it, I figured it would be a scary movie, but as it went along, I got more and more into it. Some of the movie's situations were typical, I admit, but it was very good. At the end, I thought he was about to die to join her, but what really happened kind of made me teary. I'd give this movie an 8 out of 10, and would highly recommend it ) "},{"Title":"Missed the Mark, but not without redemption","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I find it strange that everyone wants to bash this film on the basis that it mimics or resembles The Mothman Prophecies, Ghost and/or The Sixth Sense. The only reason to be let down by a film is to go into it expecting the same scenario (only done better) than the previous film one has seen.  I, myself, prefer to see each film as a separate entity and weigh it not on what another film chose to do, but weigh it on it's own merits of what the particular film I'm watching did by it's own volition.  That being said, I still find a fair amount of fault in the film - but not because of the above films.  No, where this film falters is entirely it's own fault and it's own creation.First off, it's imperative that the first ten minutes of a film rock.  You don't have to be a film director to know that.  That small window is when you either hook your audience, lose them, or let them be indifferent - which is probably the worst because you spend the next hour plus trying to create suspension of disbelief.  In my opinion, this is the first place that Dragonfly sputtered.  I don't want to be watching little vignettes, intercut with credits for the first 2 to 3 minutes.  I mean, I was like come on, you've got to be kidding me, they're not still rolling titles at this point.  Unfortunately, they were.  Secondly, it's too rushed an attempt to have these scenes between Costner and his wife within this short time period with the music way over the whole thing and the producers, etc. names coming up in between to break any sort of emotional impact or continuity that the beginning had to offer.  I found the opening to be weak and choppy.I also don't think it's a good sign when it takes you 35 minutes to actually get into a film.  And that's approximately how long it took for the director to get me back.  The saving grace that helped do so was certainly not Costner or his grief or his friends, but actually the children - one of the saving graces of this movie.  It's hard to resist the innocence of a child, especially when the child seems to be so at home in front of the camera. Both boys were good, but especially the young actor that play Jeffrey.  He was the catalyst for my starting to become empathetic and starting to wonder what is up there, how much is there that we don't acknowledge or see.  It was through Jeffrey and Ben and Sister Madelaine (Linda Hunt's one scene in the film) that I started to wonder about faith and invest some of my emotion in the story.  That being said, if I had to say that I was investing my emotion in one of the two central characters, I would have to say that the kids made me invest in Emily - which isn't the best sign of what Costner was doing on screen because regardless of whether he was stoic from grief or not, one still should have felt something for him and usually if an actor is doing their job right, that naturally happens.  I found Costner instead to appear to be mailing it in in almost every scene of the film - I did not believe his commitment nor his need.  Kathy Bates gave a solid performance but was under used.  The cinematographer never seemed to feel the need to come in on her close enough to let her power as an actress reach it's full level.  It would have been nice to see them use her to her full potential because it would only have given more weight to the film and helped boost Costner's character up a dimension.  Another area in which the film sputtered.All of the above being said, I didn't massacre the film when I voted for it because I did like the elements of belief, the beauty of what is not known except by those that have faith, and by the very end (although I saw it coming from the time he unpacked the package his wife had ordered).  I also saved off on hacking it up because of the performances by Robert Bailey Jr. (Jeffrey), Jacob Smith (Ben) and Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt.  I believe the writers had a good idea, but what came out on the screen looked about as polished and flawless as a rough draft, so all good intentions aside, it just didn't add up in the end.  Too bad, because this film could have been it's own thing.And by the way, just because two movies have titles containing insect names, does not mean that they're supposed to be compared, nor that they're telling the same story.A 6 out of 10 for trying.  Just be patient for the first half hour if you're curious enough to watch. "},{"Title":"Costner and Afterlife","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I confess to be a fan of Kevin Costner. I remained one even after half of the world buried him for doing 'WaterWorld' and 'Postman'. I liked both of them, even if I think they were twice too long as they should. However with 'Dragonfly' I start to question his scripts and themes choices as well. The problem here is not that he did something different, but that he did something that was always done too many times. I do not believe in afterlife and supernatural that moves toys and breaks windows, however I can take a good horror movie when it has the needed thrill. This theme was done too many times in the last few years, and it was done smarter and better. The script here succeeds both to lack logic and be predictible, which means that it just has the logic of bad scripts. What remains is Costner's act - he is really good in the role of the doctor who loses his wife, his depiciting of grief and anger at the loss of the dearer one is really moving. If only Costner can leave his directing and producing ambitions, and let one of the good Hollywood directors lead him, he would be soon back where he deserves - among the top five stars of the film industry.  "},{"Title":"Alright film, needs something (maybe a real actor?)","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was Ok.  It was obviously an attempt to hop on board the success of Frequency and thew Sixth sense, but fails to produce an exiting new film.  The movie drags out, and I found the end too predictable.  On the other hand it was at least a slightly uplifting ending.   Costner plays a doctor who doubts his unbelief in the afterlife, and who completely plays the idiot throughout the film.he never figures anything out for himself, well maybe the waterfall thing, but it is more a coincidence.  And what was the writer thinking about the contact with the afterlife, I mean a ghost can draw the symbol as in dirt, but  can't write a simple message? Or even leave a message with one of the kids?Dragonfly was a good idea that just needs a lot of help. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable movies I've ever seen on this subject.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly has an extraordinary storyline, tastefully managing multiple belief systems.  I am totally impressed with this presentation validating near death experiences, and a love which can reach out from beyond anything that we know.  Keep movies like this coming, please. "},{"Title":"Brain and heart required for successfully viewing...","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm surprised at myself for entering what must be the 119th comment, I mean any one comment's gonna drown in this sea of litany. But, I'm just so fired up at the drivelling negativisms below that some equilibrium must be attempted.         This film works on all levels with highest praise for Shadyac's flawless direction and Costner's fine performance. The ethereal quality which pervades long dark hallways and dark windy nights also extends into Joe's dialogues with co-workers in their faces. The direction keeps the viewer balanced on a knife-edge of whether to believe Joe's imagining things or not. Perfectly. This is no doubt abetted by a restrained performance by Kevin Costner. My fellow commenters have, obviously, not given thought to what a juiced-up lead would do to the more delicately blocked scenes. The pack of dogs attacking Costner in subsequent comments may not realize that when one experiences loss, shock is a body's natural preservation reaction it leaves you behaving numbly. Costner nails it. Perfectly. Also, Mr. Shadyac does a marvelous retreating shot near the end of the film.        A must see picture for those of us who take our souls and minds into the cave of shadows with a hope to have both inspired. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, but one thing bothered me","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  ~~~Spoilers!!!I liked the movie well enough. I do agree that Costner's character could have shown more emotion.But the one thing that bothered me is that no one in the film mentioned ANYTHING about her being pregnant until after he got the mobile in the mail and started talking about it a little. I mean even at the memorial service, they did not say anything about the child. Most people would have made it a double service. In the beginning it was obvious that she was pregnant, but no one mentioned it... which made the viewer second guess him/herself (Was she pregnant)... I thought that was almost heartless of the director/writer. Maybe I am too sensitive??? But if I were to die pregnant, I would not want the fact that I was pregnant be ignored. You know?But in a more positive light, the ending was nice. Refreshing even. It was predictable due to forshadowing and common sense of the viewer, but that makes a movie nice sometimes.Just my opinion.  "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I was actually scared a few times.  It was a great ghost story.  Kevin Costner is not my favorite, but I thought he was alright.  Although when he heard voices all I could think of is If you build it, he will come from Field of Dreams.Definitely worth a see.  It was a little like Ghost, just not as romantic - more scary. "},{"Title":"A Twist Ending??","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I won't spoil the ending for you, but I'm curious as to why so many others compared it to The Sixth Sense because of the twist ending. Personally, I figured out how the movie was going to end even before the scene in which he and his wife argued; those first pictures of his wife was all the foreshadowing necessary to predict the ending.  "},{"Title":"Mothman Lite","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Here we have Mothman Lite, right down to the insect in the title.  `The Mothman Prophecies' is a chilling supernatural thriller where a man obsessed with the drawings of his dead wife finds his way to a town where people are getting messages from the unknown.  `Dragonfly' is a syrupy tale about a despondent man obsessed with the drawings of children claiming to be in contact with his dead wife that lead him to the unknown.  A coincidence?  I doubt it.The films are different as night and day.  Mothman is a true supernatural thriller, replete with suspense, fright and eerie messages from the other side.  Dragonfly attempts to be a transcendent romance with love so strong that death cannot contain it.  There is nothing remotely spooky about it.  Most of the film concentrates on Joe's (Kevin Costner) inability to cope with the death of his wife.The film drags, with Joe traversing the same emotional ground again and again.  We keep having scenes repeated over and over between Joe and the children who contacted his wife, and Joe puling to Mrs. Belmont (Kathy Bates) who keeps trying to talk some sense into him.  The final scenes in Venezuela border on goofy, but to the writers' credit at least the ending wasn't totally predictable.Kevin Costner gives us his standard depressed nice-guy rendition only a bit whinier than usual.  Kathy Bates is feisty as always as his stalwart friend.  Linda Hunt is intense in her role as the nun who believes in near death experiences. This film is far too sappy to be a thriller and misses the romantic interaction of films like `Ghost' and `Always' in its attempt to be transcendent.  It fails to distinguish itself in any meaningful way and slides aimlessly into mediocrity.  I rated it 5/10.  If you want a thriller, see Mothman. "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I think the movie is pretty good, with good suspense.  Kevin Costner was probably at 80%. Kathy Bates was kinda wasted with suchsmall role. The lighting, cinematography, I thought was just great. For a movie that is not from my favorite genre, I would give it two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Don't expect The Mothman; this one's good!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  When the trailer for this movie was released my first thought was, 'oh no, not another Mothman Prophesies'.  I wasn't sure which one came first, but I figured one must've copied the other somewhere.  That is to say, I didn't hate -absolutely hate- Mothman, but it just wasn't... something  what the French call a certain -I don't know what.  Back to Dragonfly  It was a really good movie; not a resounding endorsement, I know, but it was really, well, good.What worked  The direction and cinematography.  The acting -though a little lack-luster, at first- ended up quite pleasing.  I also found some of the younger actors in this film to be quite convincing.  Kathy Bates, as usual, delivered a good performance on what she was given.  Costner was Costner... he served the story well, perhaps not brilliant, but just 'well'.  The music fit right in to the storyline and gave the entire work an eerie quality that filled in some of the duller moments.  Finally, last-but-not-least, the ending really hit me hard.  And, in the words of Forrest Gump, That's all I have to say about tha'at.  I don't want to spoil it for anyone.What didn't work  This comment isn't really what didn't work, rather, what the film could've used more.  More of the child character's involvement.  Like I said, the younger actors did quite well, and I thought they weren't used enough in the story.  They provided more eerie quality and I could've used more of the vision-type aspect in this film.  Anyway, at parts they seemed to make the movie and I wanted more of that which they provided.This one gets a strong 8/10.  Good story.  Good actors (esp. the younger ones).  Great atmosphere.  Cool ending.  Not enough child character developement.thank you "},{"Title":"Excellent ending!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The ending of this movie reminded me of The Sixth Sense and The Others; totally unexpected. For a while I thought that  had figured out what was going to happen at the end, but, believe me, I was caught entirely by surprise. Very few movies are still able to do that to me so, I have to applaud this movie for that. And, the casting was just fine regardless of what you might have heard. "},{"Title":"A successful attempt at creating a love-struck dramatic thriller, but Dragonfly goes a little too far with the supernatural element at some points.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly is the story of Joe Darrow (Kevin Costner) who suddenly loses his wife, and his reaction is to work even harder at the hospital, `to prevent anyone else from joining her.' While working virtually nonstop at the hospital, strange things begin to happen with some of the kids who have near death experiences, particularly the ones who were previously looked after by Emily (Susanna Thompson), Joe's wife. This is where the first of the supernatural clichés comes in, as we see a kid flat-lining who is declared dead, only to jerk his head up and look straight at Joe with bulging eyes for a split second, and then drop his head back to the pillow. Nice little spooky moment, but we've seen it about a thousand times before. This kid and another kid begin to tell Joe about their encounters with Emily in their near death experiences, leading him to believe that she is stuck in limbo and desperately trying to reach him. (spoilers) There are plenty of cheesy moments in the movie, but as a whole it is an interesting and entertaining supernatural love story. The ending is a complete cop-out, despite being mildly satisfying. It's just too much that his wife survived the crash, made it to the village downriver, and won the hearts of the tribe there (the one that `hates outsiders') to the point where they delivered her baby and kept her in a hut (after Emily's death) like it was delivered straight from the gods. Kept it there, that is, until Joe arrived to pick her up. I will admit that I loved seeing Joe united with his daughter, but there comes a point when things are happening in the movie just a little too conveniently. For the sake of brevity, I won't go into all such instances, but as another example, let's not overlook the fact that Joe's foot was so jammed on that bus that he drowned, and then when he was pulled from the bus it drifted right out like it had never been stuck at all. I have already complained about the supernatural element of the movie, but not because I don't think that it was creative or that I don't think it was a good addition to the story. On the contrary, thinking back on it after the movie was over, I thought that the supernatural element was one of the most interesting parts of the movie, although I stand by my opinion that it just became goofy at some points. I loved the whole mystery surrounding the crucifixes made out of jell-o, especially when they kept turning up in increasingly strange places and in strange ways, I liked the way that dragonflies kept turning up in unusual places, and I especially liked the scene where the paper-weight finds its way out of the box and back onto the counter, and all of Joe's clothes find their way out of his suitcase and right back into the closet. On the one hand, things like this indicate a more cheesy supernatural thriller (a lot of this is stuff that you would expect to see in bad horror movies). For example, when Joe is selling his house, why does he feel the need to do all of his packing in the middle of the night and in total darkness except for one small bedside lamp? But on the other hand, there are usually some counterarguments against things like this. Maybe he left all the lights off (especially after he had run out of the house, at which point everyone in the audience is probably wishing that he would just go inside and turn on the lights &#150; at least ONE light) because he was just as desperate to hear from Emily as she supposedly was to contact him. The whole idea of having these kids draw these wiggly crucifixes is one of the main things that keeps your attention captivated throughout the film, and I liked that it turned out to be a way for Emily to tell Joe where she lived the last days of her life, as well as where their daughter was.I was also glad that the movie didn't go the way of Joe making the attempt to have a near-death experience himself so he could see Emily in an experience of his own. I was starting to get afraid that I was about to see a sequel to Flatliners. There were some genuinely scary moments in Dragonfly, such as the scene when Joe hears Big Bird, the talking parrot that never talks to him, calling out `Honey, I'm home,' in the middle of the night. This scene involves Joe walking down a long, dark hallway toward a lightly swaying door with a bright light behind it (probably one of the most tired clichés in the genre), but hearing the bird saying that was just like Emily was speaking through it. I was impressed. The light behind the door is followed by the standard scare of an animal shrieking and suddenly interrupting the stone silence (this is usually done with a cat, so at least they changed SOMEthing), but there were definitely some good scares in this scene.I've heard some complaints about the casting in this film, but I can't say that I understand why someone would complain. Kevin Costner, in particular, is a veteran of this exact type of role, and I admit that I have an almost immutable liking for him even if he's in a bad film. Susanna Thompson portrays Emily wonderfully, for the little amount of time that she's in the film, and the rest of the cast adds very nicely to the film, creating a realistic atmosphere, particularly in the hospital setting. Dragonfly has the unfortunate quality of being a film that delivers several new ideas and situations, but these are grouped along with a line of clichés and routine situations. This is not the most memorable film, but it definitely has its shining moments. "},{"Title":"different strokes, for different folks","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly, a supernatural thriller, yes, but not too forceful. It kept me glued to my chair, no breaks, and, as stated by many, the ending was worth the entire movie.  Some have made comments concerning the 'reality' of Costner's character...hey, this is entertainment, not the 'real thing.' I say, sit back, relax...get ready for one great ride. Lots of emotions, lots to think about...it was fun...it was entertaining...see it. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the criticism...","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"     I've never been a big Kevin Costner fan before. But, this movie was just all that and then some. People will say this and people will say that. I guess everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but some people have absolutely no taste at all, when it comes to great movies.  That, coming from a hard to please movie critique.The movie may not break open any new barriers, but it has some nail biting scenes, with a heck of alot of suspense. There was no bad acting in the entire film, if you ask me. The Bodyguard, Robin Hood, Waterworld, etc.. now those WERE some bad Costner films. However, this was not one of them.    People that say it was the worst movie ever are ENTIRELY clueless. Please go out and rent this, as fast as you can. Buy it, rent it, watch it with a friend, JUST WATCH IT! This, also coming from A MAN. Don't most mean supposedly HATE Kevin Costner? BAH!   9 out of 10 stars. I'd pay to see this again in a HEART beat. Don't BELIEVE THE CRITICISM!!!!! You'll regret it if you don't watch it. If you don't like it, then you must not have taste. You're probably the type that thought the Sixth Sense was good. That was one of the worst movies EVER MADE. PURE RUBBISH! Enough spoken. DO what I wrote above. DO IT NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"Not flashy but not bad - ignore the Costner bashers","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly is a decent film.  It's well edited, acted and directed.  Many people seem to have dismissed this movie out of hand but I just watched it and it's perfectly entertaining.  Sure it's contrived and bears some resemblance to the Sixth Sense - but so did The Others and I don't see people ripping that film to shreds.  It has a solid story idea and builds tension nicely to a fairly interesting (if expected) climax.There seems to be some kind of cultural phenomenon going on concerning Kevin Costner.  Apparently some influential critics decided he suddenly was a terrible actor and all his movies stink and the public seems to be willfully playing along.  Look, the guy's not Brando (Brando isn't either anymore, come to think of it) but he's a pretty solid actor and still does some good work.  In fact if you compare his films over the last seven years to some of his contemporaries (Mel Gibson, Bruce Willis and Richard Gere come to mind) he's doing as well as any of them.  Such is the case with Dragonfly.   "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was panned by critics right and left. In fact, I reluctantly picked up the dvd rental and sat down to watch it with lowered expectations. I was surprised, pleasantly surprised.The very one-dimensional Kevin Costner plays the same sort of character he always does defiant yet fragile. While in other films in hasn't worked so well, other films have excelled because of it.Here Costner has lost his wife yet the body was never recovered. Yet, strange occurances keep happening around Costner, making him wonder or question.The pacing is slow yet deliberate. I found the story intriguing. Some of the characters were actually bothersome. I found Kathy Bates' neighbor/lawyer utterly awful. Am I alone in thinking she is a terrible actress (aside from Misery)? Her character and every scene of her's could have been left on the editing room floor without losing a step. Joe Morton's character is also over the top.Aside from the editing issues (I would have yanked Morton's, Bates', and Costner's family completely from the film) it was a fun little flick. Some nice surprises and an emotional ending helped drive the film. "},{"Title":"Forget the bad reviews.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  We rented this movie for just viewing pleasures. We did not expect to see a film that would move us in any direction.We found it to be very enjoyable to watch. It may have a Sixth Sense type format, but what now a days does not.We found the acting to be very real like. Some people who give this movie a bad review must of never lost a love one. Grieving for a love one is not an easy thing to act on.All the cast acting seemed very believable and real.Rent it, regardless of what others say. You will be greatly surprised. "},{"Title":"Entertaining ... and more!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly is an excellent movie whose full worth may be lost on younger audiences not open to its message.  Costner is perfect for the lead role. The plot combines elements of mystery, suspense and love story with a touch of horror, without giving so much as a hint of the surprise ending. In addition to its immediate entertainment value, Dragonfly has a message for anyone who knows or can comprehend the pain of losing a loved one, is trying to come to terms with their own mortality or wonders if there is life after death. This movie will stay with you long after you've seen it.  "}{"Title":"The usual Hollywood fare","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In Dragonfly Cosner plays a perfect ER physician whose perfect humanitarian oncologist wife is killed in a jungle helping perfect little sick kids. Subsequently, perfect doctor Cosner thinks his perfect wife is trying to communicate an urgent message to him from the other side. An unbelievable and forgettable flick with the usual paranormal symbolism and things going bump, Dragonfly does little more than provide some contrived and mediocre no-brainer junk entertainment for the couch potato with an appetite for the supernatural. (C-) "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Whoever says this movie has the wrong cast has to be out of their mind. It was excellent, a great mixture of drama and thrills. The ending was the best part of the entire movie. I would say it is more for the sentimental and emotionally tuned in viewer.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This had mixed reviews when it came out - it is still coming to mainstream Australian cinemas but I managed to see a charity screening of it.Firstly, I've always (for most part) liked Kevin Costner.  I know he has done some bad films (Waterworld anyone?) but I feel he is getting back on track with his last couple of films.  I think that even though he is more subdued in this film he still does a pretty good job.  Another great movie that he recently starred in was Thirteen Days.  See that and you'll appreciate his acting even more.On to Dragonfly.  I think overall this film works quite well.  It does slow down a little in the middle but the ending was very satisfying.  It starts with a good tense opening too.  I don't think it breaks any new ground as this is hard to do since the brilliant Sixth Sense came to the screen but it is competently directed and acted.Probably not everyone's cup of tea if you don't like Kevin Costner as he pretty much carries the film.  The other stars don't get to shine too much (Kathy Bates, Linda Hunt, Joe Morton).I give this film 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mothman Prophecy 2","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If this movie came out by itself without another cookie cutter film before it, I would have enjoyed this film more.  If you saw the Mothman Prophecies, you saw Dragonfly.  The sad part is that for being a far superior actor, Kevin Costner was worse than Richard Gere.  I give it a 5....that is being generous "},{"Title":"Better than most people would think (contains spoilers)","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Costner has been getting a bad rap for the choices he has made in the past, but based on this movie, he should be re-evaluated by most.  While not worthy of an Oscar, he turns in a good performance.  A previous reviewer has stated that he muddles along through this movie, just going through the motions. But considering that he has just lost his wife, I don't see that behaviour as so uncommon.  As for the dragonfly that he keeps seeing, and the pictures that his wife's patients are drawing, that is his wife's way of telling him that she had a baby.  The image of the dragonfly that the kids are drawing is their child's birthmark.  While his wife died in an accident, the baby survived.  She was telling Costner where he could find his baby daughter.  She did not want to leave the child in the jungle with the natives, but that she wanted Costner to find the child and take her home. Images of dragonflies were simply the mode of communication she chose in order to get his attention -- which she did arouse in him.  I fully recommend this movie to anyone who likes a movie with a heart. And yes, while it is an attempt to cash in on the Sixth Sense if you take this on its own, it is well worth the rental.        "},{"Title":"Brillianly Performed","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  When watching Drangonfly, I found myself drifting into another world. This film really touches base with the afterlife and the possiblity of there being something more.  I loved it.  It was casted perfectly.  While Costner's character took some time to develop, in the end he proved himself the great actor that he is.  Kathy Bates's small but important role really shows you how versitale an Award winning actress can be.  The movie's Mothman Prophecies style meets The Sixth Sense feel can't be beat. The ending is by far a knockout.  One of the best endings since Unbreakable. You're going to love this movie! "},{"Title":"Bad title, mediocre story, great ending","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Don't get fooled by the title, it's not a martial arts flic. It starts out as a bad Sixth Sense clone (whispering kid in a bed) but the second half of the movie finaly gets exciting. And the ending is great! 7/10 (for the ending) "},{"Title":"A film for old folks.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is very boring and extremely uninteresting, specially if you are a teenager like I am. I hate coincidences in real life cause they can confuse people. What this movie tries to say in part, is that coincidences are there for some reason. That is very irritating to conceive. Anyway, I would recommend it to old folks and very old folks witch are married. Costner´s performance is above average on this film, and could be the only reason to watch it till the end. After watching this movie, I had the impression I had seen a fairy tale(not meaning it as a complement). From one to ten, I would give it a six. "},{"Title":"Utterly simple, but interesting!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers dragonfly tells the story of a man named Joe who loses his wife in a bus accident; however he thinks she's alive, since he never saw her corpse. Joe works as a doctor and becomes very frustrated after losing his wife. He has a lot of patients who have been saved of death, then he sees a boy who is about to die calling out his name on behalf of his wife. Emily (his wife) is trying to reach him through lots of ill boys. Joe (Kevin Costner) starts to hallucinate with dragonflies since his wife loved them. Some of the ill boys begin to draw strange things related to Joe's spouse. Those drawings seem to be like crosses, so he begins to investigate about it and finally finds out that this kind of cross is found on his map (the map of the place where the accident occurred). Then he goes to that place, in which there are beautiful waterfalls and also a rainbow. After he sees the bus in which his wife died, he decides to jump into the water to try to find her. The scene in which Joe was drowning inside the bus was intense and plausible. I really liked this scene; it was a pretty original one. After this event, Joe meets a lot of indigenous people who seem to know who his wife is and what happened to her. They show him his daughter who became an important person to them. Well this is an interesting movie from beginning to end. Kevin Costner gives a good performance, but it really wasn't what I expected from him. I thought he'd be more dramatic, which would have made it even more interesting. I've read many comments on this movie, and most reviewers say it's a bad one, but it's not the truth. If you like drama and mysterious movies, watch it! since it's a very original story and the ending is somewhat plausible and unexpected; nevertheless it's utterly simple and didn't fill my expectations. The plot itself doesn't tell us anything; maybe the whole story is about a man trying to find out that he's not mad and trying to figure his mysterious wife's death out. Overall, I recommend this movie to mature audiences who are able to handle slow mysterious stories. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This would have made a GREAT 30 minute episode of something.  I can't say what show, but it wasn't meant for the feature film format.In keeping with his past few efforts, Costner was bad.  There were one or two moments that showed his acting ability, but he didn't bring enough to this to keep it great.I'm not sure if it was the story or the directing, but it was mostly an annoying bounce between 5-10 minutes of drama, then 5-10 minutes of creepy stuff for most of the film.  Sadly, the creepy stuff didn't drop the proper clues to keep your interest.I haven't a clue why people keep referring this to the Sixth Sense.  The only similarity is the twist ending.  Apparantly, many people watching films can't see a film with a twist ending without saying, Ooh, twist ending...Sixth Sense!  It seems they've never seen Hitchcock's Psycho, or the hundreds of other good films that came out before 199? with a twist ending.My evaluation comes to thisIf there's nothing else on t.v., give it a shot.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I think this is a beautiful story with an incredible ending. Kevin was wonderful in this movie and the pain he was going through really showed through in his acting. Everyone I have told about Dragonfly  and seen it with have all loved this film. I haven't received any negative feedback from anyone who has seen this movie. "},{"Title":"A PEOPLES CHOICE MOVIE. NOT A CRITICS CHOICE","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say, i was not disappointed when i went to see dragonfly. i had waited for a year and a half for it to come out and the day it opened I was at the theatre. I took my seat with my husband next to me and we enjoyed it very much. Why do so many people go to the movies nowadays looking to criticize, rather than enjoy? I did not go to compare it with any other film. I did not go to see if Costner would fly or flop. which he didn't. I went because I knew that any movie with Costner, that showed a smidgen of sentimentality would be great. He does it so well. and he did not fail to make me sad and happy, as well as make me laugh. Whats wrong with sentiment? Why is the notion of a love so strong it has no boundries sentimental crap? It seems as if the whole world is full of cynics. I enjoy going to a movie and being moved. And Dragonfly gave me my moneys worth. Dont listen to the naysayers, this is a movie worth going to see. If you love the idea of love, as well as a nice eirie background to the story, you won't be disappointed  "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The mark of a good movie is one that keeps your eyes riveted to the screen. Dragonfly is just such a movie. Kevin Costner and the rest of the cast were excellent. Costner conveyed the emotions of the character perfectly. I hope this movie succeeds, despite the critics. "},{"Title":"It's more metaphysics","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is yet another example of Hollywood screen writers, directors and producers trying to get across their message. It is another example of them subtlety, or not so subtlety, pushing their agenda. Here are some common agendas being pushed Big business (including HMOs) is bad, Minorities have been oppressed unfairly, People with handicaps are not appreciated, Southerners, particularly cops, are dumb rednecks, The first amendment is #1, even to the point of taking four letter words, violence and sexual displays to the max.The agenda being pushed here is that of New Thought metaphysics which abounds in California. If you want to know what that is, it is very plainly expressed by the Nun in her entire character and every word she says. In case you miss this very good film, the short version of New Thought belief is that our thoughts create our reality, there is a life after death, and above all there is Love!That is simply all this movie was about. Those that focus on anything else missed the point entirely. I suppose that means the writers did their job very well. In my book, I rate all well done metaphysical movies like this a 10. For reference you might want to recall other metaphysical laden movies such as What Dreams May Come, Powder, Phenomenon, Ghost, and many others including the endings of Academy Award Films, Titanic and Gladiator! "},{"Title":"Experience 'Dragonfly' for a well written personal journey!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Feb.25th    I shook off the last of my Olympic Fever and went to view the film DRAGONFLY this evening.  Please don't let Jay Leno's comedic comments about this being one of those sensitive films (as if that is a bad thing)keep you from experiencing this film.  If you have ever experienced pain or loss and have had a difficult or confusing journey to try to find some answers or meaning, you will be able to relate to Joe(Kevin Costner's charactor)as he struggles through that mind bending process.  The story unfolds in a unique, unexpected way (in spite of all the trailers during the Olympics)and Kevin Costner's charactor Joe is very believable in this film.  The emotions he expresses are very real, helping the audience to identify with his journey.  When I think of the actors I grew up watching, especially two of the greatest, Jimmy Stewart and Gregory Peck, I mentally compare some of their early works to those that occurred later in their careers.  They weren't always the best actors in the greatest movies.  It took time to get to that level.  I really feel that Kevin Costner deserves kudo's for the growth he has experienced as an actor, and his willingness to stretch the boundries with this film.  This is the first time I have written an opinion endorsing anything online...that's how much I enjoyed this film! I encourage everyone to experience Dragonfly at the theatre for a personal spiritual journey.   "},{"Title":"This film is GREAT !","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie move you to the soul. It takes you in, wheather you want to go or not. Kevin Costner is great because he can go deep in his soul for his character. Even if the critics don't like the film, his fans do. The ending made me cry. Go see the movie for yourself to make up you own mind. This is the best film to date for Kevin and the director knew when he wanted Kevin, that he was getting a man that could really feel the lost of a love one. SO GO AND SEE IT FOR YOURSELF AND DON'T LET THE CRITICS KEEP YOU FROM SEEING IT.  "},{"Title":"Nice movie, sweet ending","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILER*** I really do not get why people do not like Kevin Costner as an actor. Yeah, he has not done very well at box office for some years now, but, come on, we all know what kind of movies do good at box office. If you are for action movies, I can understand you may not like the movie, yes it is a slow movie, but otherwise, I believe that Kevin delivers perfect as Dr. Joe Darrow. I have always liked the vulnerable characters that he has played. I could feel Joe's love for Emily, and his pain after he lost her all along the movie. We can talk about if the oncology ward patients were good actors, but Kevin did his best. Shadyac could have made use of Kathy Bates and Linda Hunt more to develop the story though. And, if I were Shadyac, I would not try to market the movie as a thriller. This is a Field of Dreams meeting Message in a Bottle movie. It is supernatural and romantic! And I enjoyed it! The ending was not a Oh my God! ending, I agree, but it was a Oh that is sweet ending.   "},{"Title":"Seeing is believing.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Believe takes you there. This is the theme that drags Dragonfly to almost perfection. The story is compelling, emotional, intelligent and takes the audience trough the magic of a powerful fable. Tom Shaydyac directed this movie with great skill and boldness. Although he had one of the best screenplay of the year in his hands. But the force behind all of this is Kevin Costner.Not only he is deeply credible in the part of Dr.Jos Darrow but he takes the character to a level of a great performance.Kevin Costner has not been too lucky in his roles since Water World but at least he's is honest and dedicated in his choices, good or bad.Kathy Bates in her supporting role is not only intriguing but she brings an other dimension to the story. Dragonfly is subtle and will charm more than one heart. Dragonfly's ending  will fill anyone, who choose to see this movie, with happiness for a long time. A must see movie. 8/10  Sputtosi     "},{"Title":"pay attention before you write","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I'd like to comment on previous comments made to the board (in quotes).~~~~~Bates repeatedly mentions that she's a professor of law for no apparent reason and also mentions a Hannah that she's lost but it's never clear if Hannah is her daughter or her life partner. Joe's relationship with his neighbor is a completely unlikely one.First off, Kathy Bates character was so obviously a lesbian. If anyone needed more than the script and stereotypical characterization given them, well, you just can't blame the movie.Also obvious was the importance of her occupation.  Attorneys, like those in the medical profession, deal with facts and proven theories, all things tangible.  The neighbor, otherwise a wonderful, wise woman, needed a reason for being such a close minded, doubting fool.How could anyone make such a comment regarding Joe's relationship with her? He had lived beside her a long time, she had obviously bird-sat for him, had undoubtedly been close to Emily.  What is so unlikely about long-time neighbors being friends?~~~~~ The night of Emily's memorial service, Joe is out with his three best friends from college having drinks at a bar joking and laughing. Far fetched at best and very disjointed.Far fetched to meet your best friends after a memorial service?  Most families gather together after a funeral, and many drink.  There is almost always laughter.  And remember, this was not immediately after her death, this was several months later.  And was Joe having a good time?  He was uncomfortable, detached, and, in fact, left within minutes.  What was far fetched about that?~~~~~The story lacked anything remotely close to characters that anyone would care about.Not care about a good man totally in love with his wife, his best friend, who not only tragically lost her but also lost his first unborn child?  How heartless would a person be to not care about that?I sympathize with the film makers when people criticize what they just don't get. Pay attention.  Maybe you won't find so much to whine about. "},{"Title":"A supernatural story that plays it safe","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Dragonfly aims to be a spooky, supernatural thriller in the same mould as THE SIXTH SENSE, WHITE NOISE and THE MOTHMAN PROPHECY, but the sad truth is that the film's structure can't retain the right atmosphere to last an entire running time. So what we have is a film that starts off pleasantly chilly but ends up as an ultimately routine and predictable storyline with the usual heartwarming Hollywood ending.Kevin Costner, who doesn't seem to have been around much since the the dual-disaster of WATERWORLD and THE POSTMAN, puts in a decent turn as Joe Darrow, a grieving doctor who becomes convinced that his dead wife is attempting to contact him from beyond the grave. It's a performance that gets gradually more frantic and desperate as the story progresses, with friends and colleagues disbelieving as they seem wont to do in these movies. The central character arc is fairly predictable in these kinds of films, but I thought that Costner did a good job with the material. He reminds you why he was once an A-list actor, even if ever so briefly.The scare scenes are fairly predictable and despite a few elements of fun with a talking parrot there's little here that hasn't been done before. Some good turns are elicited from the child actors in the cast and there are some familiar faces giving solid turns &#x96; Joe Morton, Ron Rifkin, Kathy Bates &#x96; so it's a real shame that this ends up as one of those films that seems to write itself into a corner, leading to a third act which goes for the safe and routine rather than the challenging. It had the potential to be so much more than just pleasantly spooky on occasion. "}{"Title":"A Dragonfly that Doesn't Fly","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Costner and his wife are doctors, and she helps the Red Cross. On a Red Cross mission out of the country, her bus gets into an accident and she is killed. But, Costner is getting messages from her via her patients, who are children with cancer, etc. Everyone around him thinks he's crazy and just prostate with grief, when he tells them she is trying to contact him. That is the basic plot, with Costner trying to find out why she is trying to reach out to him.I see that this was written with Harrison Ford in mind, who wouldn't take it, due to his break from films. That may be the main reason for its B-picture feel to it and lack of effectiveness. Since they couldn't get him, they probably didn't spend much on the budget in making this film. Despite its spiritual content and somewhat uplifting ending, this still feels like it's missing something. If not for its ending, this would be rather forgettable. I do recommend seeing this once and you'll probably be glad you did, but this sort of thing has been done before and better. "},{"Title":"Watermark","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Costner keeps this SIXTH SENSE/STIR OF ECHOES retread from self-destructing. A doctor who has lost his wife starts getting messages from her through some of his patients. And the image of a dragonfly starts popping up everywhere. Eventually, the good doctor decides to retrace his wife's steps, which took her to the Amazon, where she went to do something saintly with some natives. The film is slow-going, and it seems to take forever to get to the action, which has Cosnet visiting a forbidden village deep in the jungle. The ending will stun most viewers, and is worth the wait. Those who do not like Costner, steer clear, of course. After all, this is the guy who made the despicable WATERWORLD and dreary ROBIN HOOD. But he also made FIELD OF DREAMS, THE POSTMAN and OPEN RANGE. So give the guy a break, please! "},{"Title":"Interesting and Gripping! Costner Makes it Work!","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" No matter what you believe about life after death, this story works in a gentle and subtle manner so as to captivate your imagination while it takes you on a suspenseful and thrilling ride deep inside the human psyche, not to mention the Venezuelan jungle. Kevin Costner is a medical doctor who loses his wife in a tragic accident in the Venezuelan jungle. He loves her and is close to her and cannot rest because her body was never found. A series of contacts with his dead wife lead Costner to believe that his wife may still be alive. He cannot rest easy knowing that she is trying to contact him from the other side of life. This story is simple and well told. There are several gentle persuaders along the way that provide an interesting view that grabs your attention and holds it through to the satisfying conclusion. A warm-hearted tale about love that I found emotionally gripping and well worth the time to watch. A touch creepy but ultimately a story about faith (in something larger than yourself), love and triumph. "},{"Title":"A little overdone, but still very good ...","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Even though parts of this movie were bit over-the-top, it was still intriguing and engaging. I enjoyed watching Kevin Costner's character try to figure out just what the heck was going on.The movie is about a doctor whose dead wife (was also a doctor) seems to be sending him a mysterious message from beyond the grave. At first he's skeptical, but hospital kids who experience near-death experiences keep bringing back garbled messages. What's the message? ... That's the story.This film is interesting primarily because Kevin Costner puts in a strong performance and is very interesting to watch. The intrigue of the messages and his search for their meaning also drives the movie movie along.It's not quite perfect; sometimes the reactions of Costner's character are a bit excessive and the frequency of the messages makes it a little hard to believe.However, overall this movie is great to watch. Definitely worthwhile viewing for everyone. "},{"Title":"Fantastic makes you wonder movie","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" One of the best movies I have ever seen. Kevin Costner and Kathy Bates are great. One portraying the sane one. This movie makes you wonder can something seem real and not really be real. Or can something seem not real but actually be real. There are several lines in the movie that are really deep. The ending is worth waiting for. I have seen this movie 9 times and I never tire of it. This is a drama thriller. It is science fiction but is very well made. It has several scenes that will make you jump, but is not a horror film. It leaves you with a very good feeling about life and death. A movie that will make you wonder about your own soul. "},{"Title":"A Movie To Remember for all time..","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I don't know if people are losing taste for good movies, or they just like to watch silly-impossible action movies that has no depth of life or has no greater meaning .. But, this, it was one of the best movies i ever saw and believe me, i saw hell lot of movies than i can recall. It's not about thriller, murder, or just silly romance or sex, but it has much greater in-depth meaning. How desperate one gets to reach their soul-mate .. what one would do just to follow his instinct..I didn't say i like Kevin Costner movies, but this is one film, that MADE me like him. Performance of the actor/actress was as good as it gets. I won't say more, but if you like movies with greater depth then there can't be any movie which u may like more... "},{"Title":"Good good good !!!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Columbia is in South American, NOT Africa as I just read some comment here. I always love supernatural stories and this movie has not failed my expectations. The story is romantic and yet scary. I highly recommend this movie.  Columbia is in South American, NOT Africa as I just read some comment here. I always love supernatural stories and this movie has not failed my expectations. The story is romantic and yet scary. I highly recommend this movie Columbia is in South American, NOT Africa as I just read some comment here. I always love supernatural stories and this movie has not failed my expectations. The story is romantic and yet scary. I highly recommend this movie "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised at the drama, suspense of this movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted to see this when it came out in theaters, but was never able to make it.  I bought it on DVD and watched it just today - and was so pleasantly surprised.  K.Costner played his part so well, and made me a believer that he was really in grief and reluctant to going on with his life...but then life began again!  And Kathy Bates was a great neighbor & friend...the kind I hope I have.  Wow, what a terrific movie!  You've done it again Kevin!  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  So this is another movie still trying to hang on to the Sixth Sense fad. Dr. Joe Darrow receives messages from his deceased wife through children with NDEs. So she wants to tell him something. Okay. The premise is not too bad, but a couple of unfortunate circumstances make this a very mediocre movie.Possible spoilers here. Maybe.The first problem is the waste of time in the beginning while we watch Joe figuring out that he is not mad, and that his dead wife really is trying to communicate with him. Most of us would already accept that as a given from the movie pitch and also because otherwise this would make a rather boring film. Even so, the atmosphere in the first half is well construed, dark and gloomy up to deeply threatening. This could have been a thriller. Unfortunately, it doesn't follow through.Once he Believes, of course, he has find out where to look, and most importantly, what to look for. And this is the worst bit. Because halfway through the picture, we get such a glaringly obvious pointer as to The Message that you can just shut down your own brain - or better, leave the theater.This may somewhat hold up as a love story, adhering to the idea that love conquers all, even death. But it is no suspense movie, due to the complete lack of any suspense. A shame, really.  "},{"Title":"WHERE HAVE YOU GONE, KEVIN COSTNER??","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  DRAGONFLY  (2002) *1/2 Kevin Costner, Kathy Bates, Susannah Thompson, Joe Morton, Ron Rifkin, Linda Hunt, Jacob Vargas,  Matt Craven, Jay Thomas.  Costner continues his losing streak as a film star in the latest of his dreadful romantic dramas this time as a self-centered doctor who's deep denial over the recent tragedy of his beloved wife in an accident has him seeing and hearing ethereal messages from (brace yourself) her oncology patients (i.e. kids with cancer!)  Shamelessly manipulative and at times ghoulish (his character actually waits in the wings for whenever one of her patients goes into a near-death situation so he can pump them for info on her whereabouts!)  Oh the mighty have fallen.   This is the SECOND film director Tom Shadyac (he's responsible for the syrupy nonsense of Patch Adams ) has incorporated cancer riddled kiddies to pull at the heartstrings.  There's a special circle of hell for you sir! "}{"Title":"Mothman Prophecy 2","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If this movie came out by itself without another cookie cutter film before it, I would have enjoyed this film more.  If you saw the Mothman Prophecies, you saw Dragonfly.  The sad part is that for being a far superior actor, Kevin Costner was worse than Richard Gere.  I give it a 5....that is being generous "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Its easy to see why films such as this and the similar in tone Mothman Prophecies get made; The Sixth Sense is one of the top grossing films of all time and came out about 4ish years ago.  This means that any script that is slightly supernatural in tone is now recognised as a bankable product.  So thus we have Dragonfly, which concerns one mans (Costner) quest to find out what happened to his missing, presumed dead wife, aided by her attempts to guide him from the grave.A film about faith, courage and belief, Dragonfly ambles through the pedestrian story and credibility goes straight out the window once Costner returns to the jungle.Best bit The spooky scenes within the house and Jeffrey waking up.Worst bit The tired 'one man who is right, but everyone thinks is crazy storyline'. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A cross of The Sixth Sense, Ghost and What Lies Beneath! Semi-predictable! Felt like a made for TV movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In Kevin Costner's latest movie, Costner plays a doctor who recently lost his wife while she was away doing work for the Red Cross. There is accident and his wifes dies. She is also pregant.We see the funeral etc.Then Costner is told by his co-workers, boss etc to stop working so much. Costner starts to see things with hospital patients who have near death trips. He believes that they are talking to his dead wife. Eventually Costner finds out all along what his wife was trying to tell him about. I will not give away the ending as it was kinda sappy and sugar coated.This movie is basically a cross of The Sixth Sense, Ghost and What Lies Beneath. It's been done before so we did not get anything new from Hollywood again.  If you've seen any of these movies, it will be semi-predicatable for you.The movie at times felt like a made for TV movie thriller. Sure you get to see Costner going crazy over his wife from beyond the grave. But the supporting players as just window dressing, Kathy Bates has done a lot better work than this. So has Joe Morton and also Ron Rifkin. Overall , watch this movie if your are Kevin Costner fan ,otherwise wait for it to hit the cheap movie theaters or DVD.  "},{"Title":"While `The Sixth Sense' wasn't pitiable, it hardly warrants replicas, let alone replicas that replace Bruce Willis with an inferior actor (Costner) and Haley Joel Osment with a ward of pediatric oncology pat","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Let's not belabor ourselves with the $75 million budget (money which would have been much better spent investing in cocktail umbrella futures).  Let's not wonder why this money might further be used to fund Tom Shadyac's (`Liar Liar', `Ace Ventura') horror film debut.  And let's certainly not ask how Kevin Costner, fresh from his jaw-droppingly bad performance in `3000 Miles to Graceland', slips to new lows on this occasion.  No, if we want to find something redeemable in `Dragonfly', the suspense film du jour, we need look no further than the appearance of Linda Hunt, the homuncular actress who portrays Sister Madeline, a nun who specializes in documenting near-death experiences.  Her performance is worth staying awake for.  But if you happen to be rubbing your eyes or simply shaking your head in disgust at what is unspooling before you, you will likely miss her two minutes of screen time.`Dragonfly', in this new era of cover movies (a phrase coined by Cameron Crowe referencing his abhorrent `Vanilla Sky'), looks no further than `The Sixth Sense' for its source material.  While `The Sixth Sense' wasn't pitiable, it hardly warrants replicas, let alone replicas that replace Bruce Willis with an inferior actor (Costner) and Haley Joel Osment with a ward of pediatric oncology patients.In this go-round, the marital roles are reversed.  Emily Darrow is Costner's on-screen wife, a pediatric oncologist who has been urgently called to a remote Venezuelan village.  The film opens with her abrupt death in a tragic rockslide.  Costner races to the scene where the following dialogue unfolds verbatim Military Man Por favor, go home. Joe Darrow I'm not going anywhere.  Not until this is over. This is not a good way for any Kevin Costner film to open. Regrettably this sentiment will likely resound in your head with unintended irony.Costner plays Joe Darrow, an emergency room doctor who has been working twenty-four hour shifts, seven days a week since his wife's death.  He returns to his vacant Victorian home, occupied by Big Bird, his mute parrot, and a host of temperamental light bulbs that flicker and die at convenient times.Meanwhile back at the hospital, all of the children on the ward have taken to feverishly drawing squiggly crosses that wallpaper their rooms.  Although the kids do not know why they draw this symbol, they sense that Emily's spirit is responsible.  Joe grows suspicious of this and interrogates one of the young cancer patients who reveals that he has been channeled by Emily to deliver a message.  But what is that message?  That will have to wait another hour.  But in the meantime, Joe has some clues to work with.  The boy did hear her say that she wants Joe to meet her in a rainbow.When having a sit-down with his neighbor (Kathy Bates), Joe tells her of his discoveries.  `She wants you to meet her in the rainbow?' she asks him.  `According to the kids that's accurate,' he says with a disarmingly straight face. The sub-plot (if that is an applicable term) involves Joe's college buddies who invite him on a whitewater- rafting trip and conveniently disappear at other times.  But who are they?  They are probably the thinnest batch of supporting actors ever assembled.  But they do occupy the nearest table whenever Joe walks into the bar.  And they're always waiting with a glass of beer poured for Joe.  And a toast at the ready.  But Joe is not willing to be distracted from his supernatural calling.These reports of near-death patients channeling Emily continue pouring in.  Hunt enters as Sister Madeline to help Joe get to the bottom of this puzzle.  The steps that follow are long-winded and predictable and are clichéd to numbing effect. Costner spends the film showcasing a complete lack of charisma as he winds through the mindless script laid out before him.  The shortcuts taken in Michael Thompson and Brandon Camp's screenplay are too numerous to count.  Conveniences abound, such as the oft-discussed whitewater-rafting trip that only serves to give us a clue to what those squiggly crosses are all about.  We won't bother asking why the only image that any dying person in Chicago has in their head is Joe Darrow.But ultimately `Dragonfly' ends, because movies do, and for that we can be grateful.  If we can rid ourselves of the chilling thought that our near death experience might simply be our own opportunity to deliver messages to Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"Stretching It","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There's a lot of buildup in Dragonfly starring Kevin Costner, Kathy Bates, and Susanna Thompson. On the whole too much buildup likely. The movie is depending on the viewer's lack of smarts not to catch some not so subtle hints. It keeps on pounding us over the head with inane clues and a baffled Kevin Costner who becomes kind of obsessed. Is the movie good? Not really. It has an ending which stretches too much, (spoiler) and the paranormal gags seem to be something akin to parlor tricks more or less. The whipped together ending (read epilogue) was way too hasty with trite narration thrown in for good measure, even though the buildup remained somewhat interesting for the first 3rd. Additionally the music is plainly unoriginal and awful, totally by the numbers. So not really recommended but you could do worse. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, But Seems Like Idiot One !","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I know it's strange and unusual, but true.It's a supernatural thriller. This kind became a fashion since the 1990s; the X Flies' era. No doubts it's watchable. I loved the most the smartly written and totally unpredictable end. (Tom Shadyac), the director of Ace Ventura Pet Detective, The Nutty Professor, and Liar Liar, did notable efforts, the last 10 minutes were the best. But there are 2 problems that weakened the final effect of (Dragonfly).Firstly, the empty circles along the way. Take for instance the situation of the patient who the lead was about to accidentally kill just to listen to his late wife. I felt it a comic moment ! By this far, the movie needed a fresh event not another round with a blank outcome. It lacks a very tight pace, and some good surprises. Sure this script didn't deal with its rare situation as exciting as it should be. While (White Noise &#x96; 2005) is about more or less the same subject and so average itself, it succeeds in making a catchy storyline unlike this one.Secondly, Mr. Kevin-I-don't-know-what's-happening-Costner ! This is, to talk politely, one of his least important performances. He looked clueless and confused. Yes, the character is like that but he did it provocatively clueless and confused ! I didn't emotionally coalesce with his character. And he wasn't a factor of attraction, he was the opposite. Something was pale and non-serious about him. Whether he hates this kind of movies, or he just doesn't fit well with it. So those 2 problems just gave the movie a considerable portion of languor. In terms of being solid and thrilling many X Files were extremely better than this. Let alone being suitable for second viewing. In fact this movie looks like a 45 minutes X File that had been enlarged to a movie with only dysfunctional and annoying Mulder as a lead. Generally, while being a hopeful movie that gives a somewhat nice viewing before sleeping, (Dragonfly) is as good as its idea, and as idiot as the way Costner looked ! "},{"Title":"Oh dear oh dear","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The director of Ace Ventura taking on a paranormal drama with Kevin Costner?  What idiot financed this genius idea.The script is absurdly simple, the supporting characters just about say 'hello' and then disappear, the dialogue is excruciating and as for the ending talk about promising a bag of gold and delivering a rusty penny.I'll be kind and say it's nicely shot and there are a couple of scares if you're easily jolted, and the underwater scene was kinda good, but this movie is really not worth your time.  Shadyac wants to make The Sixth Sense, but ends up with an unintentionally funny episode of The X-Files. "},{"Title":"Towering Costner performance in a small film.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought Sixth Sense was a predictable TV movie with a boring hero out of his depth but Dragonfly was a more enjoyable entertainment . The film is directed rather blandly and yes, there are some eggy moments from the usually fail safe Joe Morton and Kathy Bates but Costner is believable and painfully moving throughout and the ending was a complete surprise. And my partner leapt up in the air screaming 3 times.... Wow!  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great thriller!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Dragonfly is great thrilling mystery that stars Kevin Costner,Joe Morton,Kathy Bates,and Linda Hunt! The movie keeps you going from beginning to end.With good acting by the above mentioned cast and being handled the way it was makes this deep but excellent movie a winner! "},{"Title":"Wretched waste of film","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I can find something to like in nearly any movie, but this one left me wishing for two hours of my life back.  Costner's terrible performance drags down everyone else in the film, so that even Kathy Bates ends up looking like a bad community theater actress.  I guessed the ending, and everything leading up to it, very early on, but could not imagine how they hoped to make it believable.  They didn't.  Scene after scene strains the audience's credulity while insulting their intelligence.  Direction by the numbers, with absolutely no wit or imagination, and an overblown sense of self-importance that would be hilarious if it did not involve the actual expenditure of time to watch.  The parrot gave the best performance in the film.   "}{"Title":"bad","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie just isnt any good.  It is so boring at times its not even funny.  The same old thing happens every time, he finds something mysterious, freaks out, talks to his neighbor, and it all starts over again until the last ten minutes, which are pretty entertaining, but trust me, it isnt worth all that happens before it.  A reasonably good performance by kevin costner. "},{"Title":"Amateurish, predictable, heavyhanded and clumsy but with a good heart","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Minutes into Dragonfly, you realize that this is not going to be a sublime movie experience.  The exposition is clumsy, the characters are one-dimensional and the tell-tale signs of predictability are in tedious abundance. Still, by the end of it, I was tentatively moved by where the story takes you, the emotion being severely blunted of course by the heavy-handed, shallow road it took to get you there. Shadyac is not ready for this kind of material - he should stick with broad comedy (the broader the better) - and the screenplay doesn't help. Costner has 2 expressions in the whole piece, and neither bring out the best in him.  The deepest thing in this film is the water; everyone is clearly out of their depth. I saw this film right before seeing the deeply profound, restrained and masterfully subtle Monster's Ball and although I shun comparisons, I couldn't help seeing how this film showed us, very much like The Lord of the Rings, what can be done with the medium when you've got artists instead of hacks at the helm.  "},{"Title":"Insulting","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is very poor in that it expects me to believe the unbelievable. A bus crashes to the bottom of a raging river and everyone dies. Fine. This bus manages to somehow remain in this exact location (despite the raging river) for a full year. Kevin Costner's character happens upon said bus and all of a sudden it miraculously decides to let loose and tumble down the river. This is ridiculous. Further, the movie's climax is even more unbelievable than this (I won't get into it here). Too much. Also, if his damn wife wanted to contact him and was able to write things all over the place why then couldn't she write something in ENGLISH on a mirror or a paper telling him what she wanted? Because then you'd have no movie. So we are left with this idiot ghost scribing hieroglyphics to her understandibly confused husband needlessly. This movie is too stupid for words. "},{"Title":"Dragonfly-Another Miserable Encounter of the Worst Kind 0*","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Stop with the super-natural nonsense already.Kevin Costner portrays a physician whose pregnant wife dies in the Venezuelan jungle. You would think that the film would just deal with his way of expressing grief and then moving on with his life. No, it couldn't be that simple.Instead, the misery begins as children in her cancer ward begin telling him that they have either seen her or heard her after near-death experiences. He believes this and appears that he literally is ready to crack up.Linda Hunt plays a nun who has experienced these type of experiences and Kathy Bates portrays a lawyer-friend who encourages him throughout all this nonsense.After 1 1/2 hours of super-natural nonsense, Kostner finally goes off to the jungle to find out what's going on. There he meets a tribe made up with women with needles going through their faces. The head woman looks like Celia Cruz and brings him to his baby! They lost his wife but kept her soul! Please. Enough already. "},{"Title":"Patch Adams part 2","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, the Tom Shadyac who inflicted Patch Adams upon us has matured his image into an atrocity one might call Post-911 Patch AdamsA real risk-taking actor ...like Mr Costner (!!!) was a perfect cast in a role where his narcissistic self-righteous strengths can only remind of the twinkly-eyed Robin Williams, showing us that all the foolish nerds who suffer through medical training haven't the moral or intellectual endowments to compare to truly sensitive clown when the chips are down.Tom Shadyac, what the hell is wrong with you? This is another film which leaves you feeling insulted and soiled. Watching this, I recalled clearly the review written by Roger Ebert in which he wrote (in 1998) that he'd wanted to spray the screen with Lysol after the screening of Patch Adams.Excellent idea... yet again! Vomit, vomit, vomit! "},{"Title":"Shadyac, take it from me and TLC, don't go chasing waterfalls.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" To be utterly up front with anyone reading this review, I am not going to paint a pretty picture of what I witnessed with this outing. There was nothing, I repeat, nothing of value with this film that tried to blend the teary eye of Costner with that of The Sixth Sense. First time drama director Shadyac (who would be better known as the founder of Ace Ventura), cannot seem to grasp this film as he continually combines cliché elements from other films, random occurrences that never quite link us to the ending, and a complete waste of actual talent. He has the blocks to build the story, but instead he just tosses them into a waterfall hoping that they will land upright. Was this a supernatural thriller, was it a romantic drama, or was it just another venue for Kevin Costner to attempt to apply his leading man status to? For me, I couldn't quite see where Shadyac was going or what genre he was interacting with. The trouble begins with the story, of which couples with soul-mates, dragonflies, and coming back from the dead, as well as what a popular majority thinks. Listening to the commentary, Shadyac explains that his cut of the film wasn't as received as the final cut because too many people knew the ending prior to it happening. In my eyes &#150; that is worthwhile if the story continues to attract us &#150; but in Dragonfly that is not the case. The story is trite and quite dull, leading to an ending that surprises mainly because you don't care any further. Joe Darrow lost his wife, cannot cope even months later, and begins to think that she is contacting him from the dead &#150; but for what reason? If you weren't pulled in by my synopsis, then I do not suggest viewing this film because in 22 words, I have probably told you everything.The acting is atrocious, possibly the worst roles created for two very talented actors. I am speaking of both Costner and that unknown talent that normally reverberates from Kathy Bates, but seemed to be missing this time. Perhaps it is the tone, the vague symbolism, or just the fact that these two needed paychecks that soured this film, but instances were not connecting. By the big surprise at the end, we are either so tired of the events or have (in my case) forgotten them, that there is no gasp or shock, merely just excitement to have a finale to this horrid broadcast. Shadyac has talent as a director, I even find myself laughing at Bruce Almighty, but drama is not his cup of tea. This film was too dark without any signs of light, which can be a good thing for skilled directors, but not for first-time Shadyac. He needed a blend of comic with the eerie unknown, which would have offset the disaster this train was headed towards. Costner couldn't carry Shadyac's work, and became murky and muddled through the middle. He had no central focus, so we - as audience members &#150; didn't know who he was. Was he crazy or just in love? How come we never saw his love for his wife? Unanswered questions that Shadyac and Costner never allowed anyone to answer.To add to my disgust was the filming overall of this movie. Just as I was confused as to the real ending to the film, I am sure that those involved were equally as confused. We move, rather quickly, from children seeing the dead, to dragonflies, to white water rafting, all the way back to some native tribe in South America. It just seemed like we were jumping rather quickly, but in the wrong direction. Without giving it away, I had forgotten the main element to the ending when we got to it because we were muddled with so many other un-needed moments that the ending just seemed watered down and dull. Honestly, I was bored with this movie because it lead us down one path, somehow jumped to another, and tried to make it back to that original path that was already lost and forgotten. The music didn't match with the actions or emotions of the characters, the hints were hidden and expected, there was no moment of self-discovery. There wasn't a scene in the film where I suddenly went, oh, I get it -- and that is sad. Dragonfly had the potential, I just felt that Shadyac was behind the wheel of a vehicle that he couldn't control, and as you listen to the commentary, you can sense (and at times hear) that he didn't want to be behind the wheel at all.Dragonfly is a pointless corporate film driven to bring in more money while capitalizing on the income produced by The Sixth Sense. There are borrowed elements that Shadyac cannot control as well as actors that walk through their scenes wondering when the paycheck will arrive at their doorstep. This is the worst film to see Kathy Bates perform, and Costner continues to dig himself a bigger hole. As you listen to the commentary, this film underwent quite a bit of changes due to viewer issues and response, which I think is the worst way to edit a film. Shadyac has no problems saying that he edited this wrong, and that he didn't like x scene, and that he felt this was completely amateurish &#150; which only helps solidify a inner feeling of disappointment with the film. He selflessly promotes Bruce Almighty during this film, which drove the nail further into the already built Dragonfly coffin. I do not suggest this film to anyone unless you like your water from the tap, meaning that if you don't mind drinking muddled, tainted, and possibly poisoned liquid &#150; than Dragonfly will be the film for you. It was that bad.Shadyac, take it from me and TLC, don't go chasing waterfalls.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"where is it???","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Where is the suspense in this film? Why is it that every time the score keeper cranks the volume up on the meter this has to mean more suspense. I don't get it. If you turn a corner and no one is there you can't fool your audience by cranking up the score. Kevin just gave one of his poorest performances. He is not the suspense thriller type actor that he thinks he is. I love him when he plays his sports roles and when he did Dances with Wolves but not this one. I can see him playing in another Western if anything but please do not do a horror movie anytime soon. And if you want to make a sequel to Waterworld I will not be there thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Yawn0","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Well though this movie had a very unexpected surprise ending, the rest of the movie was just plain boring! I mean it too. There were hardly (well to me at least) any real big shockers in the movie that made you jump out of your seat. I think this movie could be compared to a road with no side scenery what so ever that actually leads somewhere. The somewhere being of course the surprise ending. Good surprise ending... boring journey.  "},{"Title":"A Saccharin Home Ec Project for people who love stuffed animals.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film is so pretentious and by-the-numbers it could only be recommended to people who actually cry at beer commercials. It's chock-full of articulate kids with cancer who, naturally, have the capacity to channel dead people and the infamous 1 1/2 note performance that only Kevin Costner can muster. Kathy Bates had to have been involved with this film as some form of community service for a felony she committed in a past life. Even she can't out-act her stupid haircut. Anyone who thinks there is any quality acting in this must also believe Keanu Reeves should do Shakespeare. I just loved the 40 minute drowning sequence where Susanna Thompson floats, arms outstretched, smiling like a faerie on Thorazine. Half the film is spent on flashbacks of scenes we already suffered through. The melodramatic dialog is glommed from every cheesy, feel-good movie of the week so much so that I fully expected Obi-Wan's ghost to appear inside a rainbow. And, of course, we do get to see a rainbow. What a surprise! I'd be tempted to say this is the most brain-dead and unnecessary film ever made except that Patch Adams is one peg worse. "},{"Title":"A plodding pack of cliches","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Relentlessly uninvolving sub-Sixth Sense nonsense with Kevin Costner lethargically hammering another nail into his movie star coffin.At least other films this derivative try to repackage the cliches in something fresh, but oh no, Tom Shadyac never strays from the rules set out in 'Psychological Movie Hokum For The Creatively Stunted'. Household objects smash, bodies on gurneys become startlingly animated, dead wives try to contact haunted husbands, viewers snore.The dialogue never rises above the calibre of She was the heart, you were the mind. Together you were unbeatable. Give me strength. But don't give me any more claptrap like this. "}{"Title":"now this is a bad movie...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It is quite obvious that this film was made to cash in on the success of The Sixth Sense, but it fails on all points. Costner's performance is oddly one-dimensional. The cancer stricken children in the hospital are portrayed so mawkish that it made me cringe. When Costner has a vision of his late wife it looks as if he's visited by the fairy godmother. And it gets worse! I don't want to spoil the plot of the movie here, but it ends so nauseously sweet that I had a toothache afterwards. Kathy Bates is ok, but she alone can't save this movie. The basic story line could have made an interesting movie, but the sloppy production and uninspired performances spoil it all. Rent The Others instead!! "},{"Title":"Costner couldnt do it.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was boring ,. the story plodded along so slowly that I almost left.The movie might have been tolerable with another actor, But Costner couldn't carry the movie like it needed.The story was slow and predictable. Not worth the free tickets it cost to go. "},{"Title":"High Hopes, Bad Movie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"   Today I went to see Dragonfly with some friends and I have to tell you I expected quite a bit from this movie, something I did not get. The movie started off with a good beginning and I was thinking so far...so good. But as the movie went on I began to loose the story line and I was like okay? It was not good, I had seen this story before. But in this one the acting wasn't a million dollars, and overall...I couldn't stand watching this movie. All I have to say is I am GLAD I brought my friends to keep me entertained or I would've been bored out of my SKULL. But you know Kevin Costner is an actor that has his ups...and his downs, this apparently is a down. O But I will give it a 2/10 for a worthy effort to make a movie but...well...personal opinions don't matter so I suggest to wait till' it hits the rental market to take this movie on. "},{"Title":"Yuk","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I should have known better. As an actor Costner leaves much to be desired. He perpetually gives the impression that if he looks hang-dog enough somone might believe he is an actor. Bad idea all round. Don't bother with watching Dragonfly its really not worth it "},{"Title":"Seen this all before.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It's a wonderfully filmed movie.  Great cinematography!  It had a couple of jump out of your seat scenes.  It is a neat idea for a movie too.  But, it's all been done before.  And it takes forever to get to where it's going. This was a slow moving and going nowhere movie.  Costner freaks out after his wife's death.  His job suffers and his friends.  Although he proves to us his actions are not in vain.It's a sci-fi thriller that I was very much hyped up to see.  I was only let down by Kathy Bates playing the same kind of part she's played in 4-5 films before.  She's the one who is a shoulder to lean on and the ear to bend.  Again.Costner gets mushy and wishy washy as soon as the film begins.  It's like he's in another baseball movie.  He's got to get out of this rut of lame pics and get it together, soon!Ever see  3000 Miles To Graceland or A Perfect World?  Or the long version of Dances With Wolves?  Even Tin Cup is some fine work by this awesome actor/director.  I might get it on DVD depending on the extras that come with it.  But overall I couldn't wait for it to end and that don't happen to me.  Well not too often.  What a bummer.  Ciao   "},{"Title":"Just doesn't work","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I'll put the positive stuff first.  Kevin Costner isn't horrible in it. Um, the bird is pretty.  And, well, er, I guess some of the scenery is nice. But you add a horrible script (contrived is too nice a word), mix in some good actors that you completely waste, and top it off with supporting actors that are completely unbelievable (I'm talking to you kids in the hospital) and you've got a nice little waste of $10. "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie should get an A for effort, because I could tell they were really trying to be moving and mysterious, but the end result was just awful.  I really wanted to like this movie.  With the exception of some of the children, the acting was good.  The film looked good, but the story was really bad.  The ending was also bad.  This is a real waste of time. Maybe if you sit close to the exit light you could balance your checkbook or something.   "},{"Title":"Pathetic and involuntarily hilarious","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Costner is over and everybody knows it, but I don't understand why he does not stop instead to accept working in movies like dragonfly. People don't go anymore to watch Kevin's movies but the sure flop of this movie will not be because of his presence. This movie sucks and it is stupid and very very very ugly. I don't know why in the last two years so many movies have been very ugly and we have become used to see anything but this is really to much. Maybe the producer needs loosing money to drop his taxes. Any case don't go to a theater and see this indefinable nastiness. It is impossible that you can like it. I don't know anything about the director and I'm curious to read what he made sooner. If you want go, try to take it hilariously. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films in recent memory","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A film that wants to be compelling but utterly was predictable Kevin Costner sappy and sentimental garbage.  It pretends to be Sixth Sense with children who see dead people, Poltergeist with inhuman objects communicating with the afterlife, and Field of Dreams' heart-felt meaning.Don't waste your time on this one; you will be running for the exits half way through.  "},{"Title":"dull, tedious, predictable","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This doesn't make it to the so-so category.  Don't watch it when tired or drowsy, you will fall asleep.  Cardboard cutout characters and a predictable plot make this one to avoid.  And it's not bad enough to be funny, either.  My grade D- "}{"Title":"Is it life or the soul that won't let go?","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Don't blame director Tom Shadyac. And this time you can't really blame Kevin Costner for this dud. The story line is content on pulling your heart strings, but the conclusion is so far fetched it is insulting. No fault with beautiful scenery or mood music. Costner plays a doctor grieving the death of his wife(Susanna Thompson)plying her vocation in a tropical jungle country. Costner believes that his patients are trying to lead him to his wife. And the doctor in the name of decency sets on a pilgrimage to find where and how his wife lost her life. Also in the cast are Jay Thomas, Ron Rifkin, Kathy Bates and Joe Morton. Mostly a big bore, but I'm sure most refreshing for the pure romantic. "},{"Title":"Another Disappointing Movie Starring Kevin Costner","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It seems like a long time ago when Kevin Costner was box office gold . JFK , DANCES WITH WOLVES and that one with the merry men in the ye olde English forest . I must confess without any embarrassment that I thought WATERWORLD was far better than many people gave it credit , but THE POSTMAN was indefensible and after that disaster I can't name one single movie Costner appeared in even though I knew he was still starring in movie on a fairly regular basis . The last I heard of him was an interview in a low circulation environmental magazine DRAGONFLY is probably typical fare of what Costner has been doing post THE POSTMAN . While not being terrible DRAGONFLY is very unremarkable and it's not too difficult to understand how it only grossed half its production costs at the US box office . Dr Joe Darrow receives the terrible news that his wife Emily has been killed in a bus accident in a South American jungle . He tries to move forward with his life but then starts noticing strange dragonfly symbols in the most unlikely of places . Is he losing his mind or is Emily trying to contact him beyond the grave ? Reading the short synopsis above you'll notice that it's a very human drama that many people can relate to - Love existing beyond death perhaps ? But the story is somewhat undeveloped and the flaws should have been ironed out at script stage . This was marketed as a supernatural thriller and while the climax isn't as bad as say DONNIE DARKO the audience might feel that they've been cheated by the ending and bad word of mouth probably led to its failure at the box office "}]