[{"Title":"It's my life!!!!  Hilarious, but so true!!!!!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"112 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Fiancé is Greek and I am not. This move hit the nail on the head! The whole time I was watching this movie I was thinking this is my life Oh my God this is my life. I think people who gave this move bad reviews just didn't get it, because, they are not around or live inside the world of a Greek family. There are so many similarities to my Fiancés family it's almost creepy. For a crasher course to our wedding I told my whole family to watch this movie before they came. After the wedding was all said and done I had so many people from my side of the family came up to me and tell me your RIGHT! It was just like my Big Fat Greek Wedding!!! Especially since we had almost 700 people at our wedding and all we did all night long is dance in circles!!! It was a lot of fun!This was the best movie in a long time and no one knows how true this movie really is until they live through it.Sincerely, AJH  "},{"Title":"You're Invited to Join in the Celebration!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"67 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a celebration of life steeped in tradition, family, love and just the joy of living; and it invites you to come in and participate in that celebration, rather than leaving you on the outside looking in, as it were, merely as an observer.  A film that seemingly welcomes and passionately embraces all that is good and worthwhile in the world, `My Big Fat Greek Wedding,' directed by Joel Zwick, will make you laugh and make you cry, but most importantly, it will make you `feel.'  It's one of those rare cinematic experiences that afterwards makes the sky seem bluer, your step a bit lighter and a smile easier to come by; and when a film can do all of that, you know you've come across a bona fide treasure that you're going to hang onto for a long, long time in your memory. Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos) is thirty years old, lives with her parents in Chicago and works in the family restaurant, `Dancing Zorbas.'  Every facet of her life is imbued with all things `Greek,' and by proclamation long since issued by her father, Gus (Michael Constantine), Toula is bound by all that is `holy' (read  `Greek') to marry a Greek, live a Greek life and bear many Greek children.  For her to even think of doing otherwise would be unfathomable, unthinkable, unimaginable and, well...'UN-Greek.' So it becomes something of a conundrum for Toula when she meets and becomes interested in a man named Ian Miller (John Corbett), a guy who is decidedly NOT Greek in any way, shape or form.  But he asks her out, and one thing leads to another and then another, but before Toula will allow things to get seriously out of hand, meaning `serious,' she knows she must run up the flag, take a deep breath and tell her father.  And for Toula, it just may be the hardest thing she's ever had to do in her life.  Ian, meanwhile, is about to experience culture shock, as he is about to be confronted by a family that includes, for example, twenty-seven first cousins, something Ian isn't quite used to; after all, he has `two' of his own, and they live in another state. The screenplay was written by star Nia Vardalos, adapted from her own one-woman show, and it fell into capable hands when she turned it over to director Joel Zwick, who picks up the rhythms and the `sense' of the story without missing a beat.  Falling into step with his star, Zwick crafts and delivers a film that is totally immersed in the zest and zeal of living. Under his astute tutelage, the viewer becomes a part of Toula's life, sharing that grand heritage of which Gus is so proud.  He brings the story and the characters to life with detail and nuance, and in such a way that your senses will kick into full throttle.  The images he creates are so vivid, and it's such an engaging presentation, that the vitality he generates is almost tangible, and you can smell the lamb and all of those Greek delicacies cooking in the kitchen.  And Zwick sets it all in motion by establishing a pace that will sweep you along with the story; a carousel ride that will keep you involved and smiling all the way to the end.Nia Vardalos certainly captures the essence of all that is `Greek' with her story, and with her affecting performance as Toula.  This is a young woman you get attached to very quickly; there's something of Benny, from `Circle of Friends' about her, as well as Muriel, from `Muriel's Wedding.'  It's a character your heart goes out to immediately, one to whom you wish all good things will come.  There is an introspection to her portrayal that contrasts effectively with her vigorously outgoing environment, and it makes her presence all the more dominating and singular.  And it's actually in the reserve Vardalos exhibits in her character that the viewer finds the way inside to Toula's deepest longings and emotions.  Without question, this is a complex individual, in whom we find not only the strength necessary to maintain autonomy (which she manages to do within the greater structure of her family), but vulnerability born of the respect she demonstrates toward her father, her family and the traditions they so lovingly serve.  It is this very complexity, in fact, that elicits the necessary empathy of the audience, enabling that vital connection between the viewer and Toula.  And Nia Vardalos IS Toula, from the ground up and from the inside out. Moreover, one would be hard put to discern any distinction whatsoever between the actor and her character, as her performance is entirely natural and genuine. As Toula's mother, Maria, Lainie Kazan is a delight.  The character she creates is totally credible, and she's just a joy to watch.  And the same can be said of Andrea Martin's performance as Aunt Voula.  This is a VERY Greek woman who is boisterous, overtly self-assured, opinionated and dominant; and she will win you over in an instant.  It is Maria and Voula that add some real spice to the film, and when you add in Gia Carides (who plays Nikki) to the mix, you've got a Greek feast fit for the gods. Of all the actors in this wonderful cast, however, the one who absolutely steals `My Big Fat Greek Wedding,' is Michael Constantine, who has the role of his career in Gus, and without question, makes the most of it.  From his overabundance of Greek pride to his many and varied personal peccadilloes (like his ever-present bottle of Windex, which he is convinced can cure everything from a minor scrape to the common cold), he simply gives the performance of a lifetime; and if there is any justice in the whole `Greek' world, Constantine-- and this film-- will be duly remembered at Oscar time. It's the magic of the movies.  10/10.  "},{"Title":"A Greek All in the Family  Great fun!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"52 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're of Greek descent like me, then you'll appreciate and relate to the very funny (but exaggerated) tendencies and idiosyncrasies of the Greek Portokalos family.  Nia Vardalos plays the bride-to-be.  John Corbett the groom-to-be.  She's Greek, he's not.  That's where the fun begins as Michael Constantine her father is not happy her daughter is marrying a stranger(a non-Greek).  Constantine shines as he portrays a very protective, caring, loving father.  The movie was superbly cast. The movie is of light fare, great for the entire family.  Can't help to think that this would have made a great TV series.  Sort of a Greek All in the family. I understand a sequel is already planned titled My Big Fat Greek Baby. If you're Greek, go and laugh at my family, your family, our family. If you're not, go and just laugh at us.  Great fun!  "},{"Title":"Big Fat Success.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An extremely good little film that shows that smart ideas, good writing, solid direction, likeable characters and an engrossing story will always win out in the end. Nia Vardalos stars as a Greek woman who just seems a bit out-of-place in her not always normal life. She is shy, reserved and ashamed of her heritage. Some makeup, a few college classes, stylish clothes and a travel agency job away from her father's restaurant are just the tickets to help her come out of her shell. Soon high school teacher John Corbett is entranced by her and they start a sweet love affair. Naturally she keeps the secret from her parents (Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan) and the sparks fly when they eventually find out. They want their daughter to marry a Greek man and have lots of children, but Vardalos has other plans for her life. Corbett's love knows no bounds though as he makes it clear that she is the one he really wants. My Big Fat Greek Wedding happened due to good timing and lots of luck. Vardalos was struggling when Tom Hanks' wife (Rita Wilson) went to see the small play that the film is based upon. Wilson happened to see an advertisement for the show in the newspaper one day (the only day Vardalos could afford to run an ad) and the rest as they say is history. The film cost very little to make and usually second-rate director Joel Zwick ended up running the show. Vardalos' screenplay (Oscar-nominated) was the catalyst that put the film on the map and kept it there permanently. Most all the extras are real family members of Vardalos and Ian Gomez (who plays Corbett's best friend) is actually her husband in real life. Easily one of the most successful films of all time financially speaking (based upon the bargain basement cost and the astronomical showing at the box office), My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a wholesome film that the whole family can enjoy. It is another one of those rare films that feel like it was made during Hollywood's Golden Age of the 1940s. Not quite excellent, but dangerously close. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A simple story about a girl in love.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a very simple, funny romance story that would probably be most appreciated by female audiences. Nia Vardalos (the film's writer and star) is Toula Portokalos, a quiet young woman from a zany Greek family. As she explains in the great flashback introduction, all her life she has been brought up to be strictly Greek. But, the same upbringing also contains some traditional absuridites that she can't understand, although her parent's wish that she would adhere to. Toula's upbringing has only allowed her to look forward to one thing at this point in her life get married to a nice Greek boy and have lots of babies.This is not something Toula wants to here, and eventually, she gains the courage to break out of her introverted shield and gradually change herself into a bold, lovely woman. She stops working at her family's resturaunts and starts taking computer classes at the local college, which lead her not only to a better appreciation for herself, but leads to a job at her aunt's travel agency where she meets Ian Miller (Jon Corbet), and that is where our story begins.Toula and Ian are in love, really very much so. But, this troubles Toula's mother and father, with her father (Michael Constantine) being more strict in traditional Greek upbringing than her mother (Lanie Kazan), when Ian proposes to Toula. For Toula's father, it is bad enough that she quit the family business to go to school and everything. But it is simply out of the question for him that she marry a non-Greek. So, Toula is torn between the two. This is a movie very much in the spirit of films like Bend it Like Beckham and somewhat like the Joy Luck Club in addressing roles of tradition in future generations of immigrants and the possibility and reason for preservation of such traditions.Of course the film is a very simple movie, a simple love story, but a funny one nonetheless. We see the contrast between Toula's Greek upbringing, and Ian's very quiet, conservative family. Everyone was fantastic in this film, especially Lainie Kazan as Toula's mom, Michael Constantine as her father, and the wonderfully hilarious Andrea Martin as Toula's Aunt Voula.I don't know the reason for so many negative reviews for this movie. I would say it was probably the best movie I saw in 2002, and one that I have seen many times since just because it a lovely little (and funny) story about a girl in love.  "},{"Title":"I need Windex in my Moussaka!!!!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a very pleasant surprise. Frankly, I was avoiding it because I thought it was going to be too tacky for my taste. It turned out that I needed some of the Windex, the father of the bride uses for everything, to clear my eyes and enjoy the film.Nia Vardalos has written from the heart this story of a crazy Greek family with all the stereotypes in it for us to savor and enjoy what has come out under the firm direction of Joel Zwick. Not only is Ms. Vardalos talented as an actress, but she can write quite a story, star in her own tale, and bring together this cast of loonies and make us believe we are inside these folks' home. Michael Constantine and Lanie Kazan are the parents of the bride and they preside this crazy household in Chicago. Nia Vardalos is the ugly duckling we see at the beginning of the film and she wins John Corbett's heart and disarms him completely. He got her family in the bargain and he's stuck in it for better of for worse. Andrea Martin is very effective as the pushy aunt.All in all, it should be seen for the fun of it. This is a funny film, very well paced and acted. Please pass the Windex!! "},{"Title":"A movie much better than anticipated","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen many movies in the past year, some have been wonderful and some have been downright terrible. My Big Fat Greek Wedding has to be one of the best written and best acted comedies I think I have seen in a long time. While the concept of making a movie about weddings is not unique, I believe that those of us who either have gone through planning a wedding or have experiences with family having too much influence in our lives will relate to this movie better than other wedding movies.This movie is about an ordinary rather plain looking thirty something unmarried woman who comes from a large extended Greek family. All Greek women are expected to go to Greek school, find a good Greek man, marry him and have lots of Greek babies according to the narrator who is also the main character in the movie. This simple premise is what sets us off in almost two hours of raucous humor centered around planning a wedding where a couple coming from completely different backgrounds has to deal with all the external pressures that happen when two people decide to go down the aisle together.This movie has several very heartwarming and somewhat emotional scenes in it so don't expect it is just a funny movie. Acting in this movie on all characters was very well done and very believable. I thought however that the roles of the Grooms Mother and Father were rather flat and two dimensional. This movie reminded me quite a bit of Father of the Bride starring Steve Martin, except in this case, the writers for Monty Python obtained the script for final treatment. While the writers for Monty Python did not actually write this movie but was instead written by the leading lady, there were some moments where it appeared that the humor was drawn right out of a book of British comedy. All in all I felt that the whole movie had a British feel to it.This movie will delight you and leave you with a smile on your face. While the audience in the theater was more of an adult composition, I do not remember any nudity or adult language in the entire picture which means this movie is one that the whole family can see together. I would wholeheartedly recommend this movie to anyone who would like a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A big fat Greek film","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"34 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is a lovely film. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it. It is not an extremely good film but it just doesn't go wrong anywhere. The story is simple. Toula, played by Nia Vardalos, is 30 years old and still single. Her family is Greek so she must marry a Greek. Unfortunately for her family she falls in love with Ian Miller (John Corbett), definitely not a Greek. He falls in love with her too and so the only thing in the way is family.The people in the movie are all nice people in their own way. Although Toula doesn't like her family is Greek in every single way, and is too proud of it, she does love her family.'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is a very enjoyable film, with a lot of funny moments. You know everything will turn out good so it will make you feel better as well. "},{"Title":"Nice comedy","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" *Nice romantic-comedy about a Greek-American girl which has to fight against her family's strict traditions in order to marry a non-Greek boy. I think that, for the Greek people, this movie must be full of topics and stereotypes, but for the ones who don't know about Greek ways of life is pretty funny. There are all kind of weird characters (the grandma!!!), and the starring actress makes an outstanding job showing us the metamorphosis of that timid girl to a liberated one. Nice dialogs, nice rhythm... Just a nice entertainment for a Saturday afternoon.*My Rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"I was shocked to realize I loved this movie!! (possible spoiler)","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I resisted seeing it because it didn't seem to be something I would watch, but I was pleasantly surprised!! I liked all the actors in this movie especially Nia Vardalos and John Corbett. Suberb acting!!What girl can not identify with the akwardness of Toula at the beginning of the movie? The big glasses, the frumpy hair. I loved how she became so much more confident after getting a makeover and yet she never wore anything too revealing. I also liked how she made John wait so long for anything more then a kiss!One of my favorite scenes is when Toula is getting ready for the wedding and all the women in her family are chasing after her and plucking hairs off her chin. My very favorite line is when Toula tells her aunt that John is a vegetarian and doesn't eat me, and her aunt says That's ok, I make lambExcellent movie! I highly recommend it! "}{"Title":"Such a nice and entertaining movie","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a such a nice and entertaining movie. As in David & Layla directed by Jalal Jonroy, My big fat Greek Wedding too celebrates the love and cultural differences. Love, humanism, comedy, romance all are in that great film. My Big Fat Greek Weddeing brings people from different background closer and shows how important to accept the 'other' as other in order to be just happy! Being a migrant poses different problems and the individuals some times have to defy their original traditions and cultures to be able to love or be happy. In particular Greeks are very keen on and proud of their traditions and cultures (rightfully). I like the films which provide some insight and understanding of different cultures, or of individuals inner world. In this term My Big Fat Greeek Wedding does the job. That is why it is a very captivating film along with being funny enough to make you laugh even after you left the movie theater. I also recommend Mansoon Wedding, Bend It Like Beckham and David & Layla for the movie lovers. devrim kilic editor of www.kurdishcinema.org "},{"Title":"Love is here to stay... so is her family.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the best comedies I already watched,'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' shows us a little bit of the Greek tradition in the north American environment. Toula Portokalos,daughter of two Greek immigrants,always had problems with popularity and friends,since she is so different from the regular blonde American girls. Besides, her traditional Greek family don't let her have many opportunities besides the ones that are about the Greek tradition. One day,Toula sees in her family's restaurant the beautiful and charming teacher Ian Miller, who she become very attracted to. Decided to change the rules of the traditional things in her house, she starts going to the university and working,until she finally meets Ian. They fall in love with each other, but the problem now, is Toula's family,specially her parents, to accept a non-Greek as son-in-law.**spoiler** PS I agree with Toula in the end, when she says that thanks for the fact she is a different girl , she could make Ian pay attention to her. It's so much better to be different and unique, than similar to everybody else. "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A lot of people have been saying that you will not find this movie funny unless you have lived with, or are part of a Greek family. I am neither of these cases, and I really enjoyed the film.The plot line was genius, and gave people a real insight to Greek families, and put a hilarious spin on weddings in general, especially when the two families don't get along.The acting was...okay, however. I think that they could have got a lot better actors in. The music fitted into the film well.I'd recommend this film to anybody getting married, or just married, or anyone who knows Greek people - in fact, forget that, I'd recommend it to anyone with a sense of humour! "},{"Title":"A ridiculous and horrid film","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've labored over how to express my intense hatred for this film.  `How can I hate this film?' many, many, MANY of you may ask.  My question is, `How could you even tolerate it??'  Whoever told Nia Vardalos that she could act should be spayed or neutered.  She apparently went to the Richard Gere School of acting which teaches one facial expression.  While his is `bland bemusement', hers is `bug-eyed shock'.  You know that a punch line is a'comin because her eyes will bug out as the wind up and then. the zaniness ensues.The writing is formulaic and trite, the characters one dimensional, and one basically comes out of the film with several basic truths  1.) If you are Greek you are colorful, wacky and dynamic.  2.)  If you are not Greek, you are boring.  3.)  One who marries another who is of another ethnic background and religion will have no problem converting to said religion. Christ, I could go on, but I will just p*** myself off more thinking about this film again.  I've been trying to wipe it from my memory.Admittedly, I walked into this movie on the defensive as I have two friends who are Greek and basically demanded that I love it.  Therefore, I instantly wanted to hate it out of spite, but not being a complete ignoramus I gave it a chance.  No dice.  It was worse than I could ever have expected, even by the low standards I afford romantic comedies to begin with.  I want someone to invent a working time machine so I can go back in time and never see this film; or I want to have a sit-down with Nia Vardalos and demand two hours of my life back.  If there is a class action suit against this film, I want to be a part of it.  This movie is not `a delight', it is an abomination and a full-on assault on the intelligence of movie-goers nationwide.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"A film of two halves","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Up until around the 50 minute mark, this is a fun and engaging film. I cared about the characters until then and cared about how the conflict surrounding their relationship and wedding was going to be resolved. But once it was resolved, there was nothing left to engage the viewer. Not only that, somehow the main characters then drifted off into the background and were lost behind the fairly boring, clichéd and uninspired depiction of the Greek wedding itself. In the end, this is a flawed film. Every story needs a conflict. Resolving the conflict too early eliminates the need to continue the story. The Greeks knew this. "},{"Title":"big fat stupid reviewers","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i usually hate dissing the other reviewers on these things because everyone is entitled to their opinions, but, even though they usually frustrate me, i always read the reviews to gauge how a movie affects the mainstream public, as i think that's usually the most important thing to be considered.i just finished commenting on 'the rules of attraction', and it surprised me to see how there were more positive comments about that film than this one. it also surprised me to see that most of the negative reviews of this film talked about how they were 'bored' by this movie, or how nia vardalos is 'ugly', or how this film is only for 'women' or 'old people'.granted, this movie has very little sex, violence, or MTV editing, but it does what most movies try to do and fail at doing; creates an engaging story with interesting characters.  however, it's sad to see that this quality apparently doesn't carry much currency anymore, and that people can't deal with humor that's not shoved in their face or isn't right there on the surface.the ironic thing about this is that MBFGW isn't even that innovative or unique.  it takes the normal three act romantic comedy structure and, well, dehollywoodizes it a little bit.  yeah, the main characters aren't typical hollywood hot. (well, john corbett is...) but you probably aren't either. and all these people commenting on how it's 'racist' or 'stereotyped'... nia vardalos, the writer, IS GREEK!  this film is adapted from her one woman show!  it's interesting that 'ethnic' films have to take on, what, a documentary form or something to seem authentic?  if anything is racist, that is.it's super that 11,000 people have voted on this film and that it grossed so much $$.  even though, when it comes down to it, this is just a better romantic comedy which stays in the box for much of the time, it IS, indeed, better than most movie fare out there and its popularity gives me hope that the boring movies with ugly people may have a chance with the jaded tards of middle america. "},{"Title":"A typical film about Grrek and Cypriot life!!","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am in the fortunate position to have made friends with a Cypriot family when I served with the United Nations there. When this film was released, my friend rang me from Cyprus to ask if I had seen it.I replied that I had not yet seen the film, and when I had, I would ring her back. About 5 days after I had watched the film, I rang her back; when she answered the phone, I said, Can I speak to Mrs Portokalos please? She laughed and laughed, and said You have obviously watched the film, rey! My friend IS Mrs Portokalos I am proud to say. When we visit her and the family in NIcosia, Cyprus, we are always asked if we want anything to eat - it's the way it is!Watch this film - it's in my Top Ten List at number 2! Efharisto Poli!! Dave "},{"Title":"Knowing the Greeks","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I live in Izmir in Turkey (Western Coast by the Aegean Sea) and Greece is only 45 minutes by boat, and I have been to Greece for many times. The typical Greek behavior is shown and visiting Greece will enable everyone see the people in the movie (of course the movie has a little exaggeration for the sake of fun ))-!!!). Turks and Greeks are maybe the closest nations for behavior and tradition although languages and religions are different. Not only in the USA but also everywhere in the world typical diaspora behavior can be seen. I have enjoyed the movie too much and bought the DVD immediately and watched for many times. The movie can also be watched on the Turkish channels. )) "},{"Title":"Cliché-bound formula","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The ethnicity was over-acted by people who seemed too ready to deliver another cute line or another cute inflection. The busy, raucous interactions were over-acted and even self-conscious to a degree.It was the ultimate chick-flick. Every woman I know just loves this film, so it sure deserves high marks for its entertainment value. but the flow of the story and the emotionalism of it all certainly makes the film a formula piece.The WASP family members of the groom were also classically clichéd.It was boring, and predictable with comedy that came out of a can, but it was sweet enough to pour on your pancakes. "},{"Title":"The little film that could.","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a hilarious and sweet film about a Greek woman, waiting for her life to take off. One day however, she meets and falls in love with Ian and gets engaged. The problem is, he's a non-Greek and her family is uneasy about accepting him. Ian must appease them by being baptized into the Greek Orthodox church in a kiddie pool, and inviting his boring parents to meet the family. My Big Fat Greek Wedding was an independent smash starting with a budget of barely $5 million and in the end, grossing over $200 million at the box office. And there's a solid reason for that. The film is filled with heart, humour, and romance. It's set in the real world, interacting with real characters and not seeming like they are drawn up from some fantasy. It's living proof that independent films can dream big and achieve just as much. Opa! "}{"Title":"Side-splittingly hysterical","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hysterical. Absolutely, side-splittingly, laugh-so-hard-you-cry hysterical. That's the only way I can describe this movie. It had me, as well as everyone else in the theatre, rolling off their seats with laughter. And it's why, if you haven't yet seen this absolute gem, definitely make it your next night out.Written by Nia Vardalos, who also stars as the movie's main character, Toula, this is the story of a woman who falls in love. Only problem is, she's Greek and he's, well, not. At first, they conceal their relationship, but are eventually found out. The bonds of love, it seems, are strong enough to overcome Toula's family, and the couple decides to get married. Needless to say, Toula's family is less than amused, and Toula struggles with the guilt of being the first in the family to break tradition and marry a Xeno (foreigner). This, of course, leads to the requisite culture clash, tension, and opportunity for many, many gags. To say more would be to give away the funniest moments in the movie.Largely autobiographical, Greek Wedding falls in the category of movies that are so funny because they're so true. Sure, it's stereotypical and exaggerated, but that's what makes great comedy. You don't need to be Greek to relate to the mother who believes food is the answer to all life's woes, the protective older brothers, the large and wacky family get-togethers and customs - all of these are present in families from many ethnicities. I've heard comments ranging from the it's scary how much that's like my family to the someone put a video camera in my living room! This movie isn't perfect. The acting is more colourful than inspired, for the most part, with John Corbett's nice guy coming off as a little too good to be true, and most of the family stuck in two-dimensional character parts. The exceptions are Vardalos herself, and especially Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan as her loving but quirky parents. Some of the humour is slightly too clichéd, and the requisite happy ending comes off a bit too neat.Despite this, My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a movie-going experience that borders on being the best time you can have sitting up. So pour yourself a shot of uzo, sit back, and enjoy the laughter. "},{"Title":"I loved it...","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the most amusing movie I've ever seen, it's all about Greeks and more Greeks and I can relate to this movie because most of my school life I grew up with kids of European descent, so I knew what they were all about.Okay the movie was straight forward, we have Toula (cue Nia Vardalos), a thirty year old woman who yearns for more than just her Greek-bred life, then one day she meets Ian (cue John Corbett and dreamy sighs) who comes and changes her life for the good. However her parents don't know about her little romantic romp, but since she's Greek, good news gets around quickly in their big community. And what I really found interesting is that she's a grown woman and still is hassled by her parents, I mean come on! But I guess that's culture for you.Anyway the whole movie is a classic of culture clashes and family butting-in humour all in a lead up to a wedding, that's priceless!I recommend this movie to families and anyone who wants to marry someone of European descent. This movie will make you laugh hard!Thank you!  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I didn't really care for it. I think my expectations were too high. The more I see it now, the more I like it. Maybe it's because I see my father in her's. Maybe it's because my boyfriend's family is big like her's. I don't know. But the movie is great. It's funny and sweet. You fall in love w/Ian because he is the greatest guy in the world. Every woman can relate to Toulah. For every woman who has a brother, you'll love Nicky. He is a goof ball when he wants to be and serious when he has to be. Just like any brother. By the way, Joey Fatone from N*Sync plays her cousin.It starts with thirty-year-old Toulah working in her family's restaurant. She waits on Ian one day and decides she wants to better herself. Along the way, Ian comes back into her life and the two fall in love. He proposes to her and learns how crazy and loving her family really is. Definitely a must-have for anyone's collection. See the movie. Laugh at it. See it again and again and again. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great classic...","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's already in my opinion a classic.  It reminds me so much of the older '80s movies.  I'm not even talking about the teen movies from that decade either.  People always automatically think John Hughes when you say '80s movies.  Think about stuff that was more adult oriented, but light, funny and just good quality entertainment that came out back then.  Anyway, this movie really has that.  Basic plot Nia Vardalos plays Tula, a woman who is 30 and doesn't know where her life is going.  If it's even going anywhere.  She doesn't have a boyfriend, she lives with her parents, and works at their restaurant.  She's not very pretty, a little depressing, oh and did I mention, her biggest problem seems to be, that she's Greek. Her family continually pushing her to get married and have babies (to a Greek that is.), she sees herself going to college and trying new things.  After finally convincing her father to let her take some classes at the local college and ends up working at a travel agency, she runs into Mr. Perfect, whom she met at the restaurant she used to work at. After a brief courtship, the two fall in love, but her father wants nothing to do with the non-Greek and forbids his daughter from seeing him again.  But, there's no stopping true love...A cute, quirky movie that's just light enough and clean enough you can watch it with your kids, and still laugh whole-heartily at all the jokes and mishaps of the crazy clan Tula calls her family.I give this movie a 10 out of 10 and tonight is the third time I've seen it.  I love this movie!And that's my review. "},{"Title":"A charming although formulaic romantic comedy","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding makes up for what it lacks in plot with a cast of amusing, lovable characters.    Like any large extended family the Portokolos family is a collection of oddball, zany characters.   Toula's father Gus can find the Greek root of any word, and believes windex to be a wondrous cure to any ailment.  Toula's mother says the man may be the head of the household, but the woman is the neck, she can turn the head whichever way she wants.    And throughout the movie we see matriarchal power in action as she and Aunt Voula subtly manipulate Gus, the father.    Toula's Cousin Nikki with her provocative fashion sense and brother Nick with his quiet passion for art, fill out the Portokolos personality tree.In contrast the Millers are a subdued, small family.   Ian has only two cousins.  When Toula invites the Millers over for a quiet dinner to meet her parents they are in for quite a shock.   The dynamics between the overwhelmingly extroverted Portokolos family and the reserved parents of the groom provide some amusing moments.My Big Fat Greek Wedding had potential to be an exceptional film. It was hindered by a far too contrived romance and a particularly unconvincing performance by John Corbett as Ian Miller.   His character was so lacking in personality, so bland, especially in contrast to the Portokolos family members.  Plus the robotic delivery of his declarations of love were unbelievable.    His character seemed an afterthought.    Had Ian Miller been better acted, and developed as well as all of the supporting characters, the film would have been great.  However, it is still an above average romantic comedy, providing many laughs and feel good moments. "},{"Title":"A treat","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I sincerely do not understand the backlash against this movie. It is hilarious and warm and undoubtedly deserving the attention it got. Or you have to be Greek... Really can't say.What I do know from a Greek's perspective the jokes hit right on target and yet are not offensive. The wackiness but also the warmth and love that's in Greek families comes through.I say give it a chance not expecting to love it or hate it. You'd be surprised.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Fun Moive","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A fun movie. It is nice to see a pleasant movie . Every one seem to complain about it being  not really based on any thing in real life. But movies are just movies . Not documentaries. It was nice to see such things can be fun and not mean and nasty and have to blow up half the world to make a movie fun to watch.  And I love the love that comes across in the characters  "},{"Title":"The best Indie Movie ever made!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I'm not an expert in Independent movies... but I do know that MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING is a great movie.  My wife and I watch it regularly, it's one of those feel good and cuddle film.  A feel good movie.  I absolutely loved it and would recommend it to anybody.  A lot of my friends who I have recommended this movie too evidently agreed.  If you watched the national charts, MBFGW would move up and down the charts like nobodies business.  I was working in another state and my wife was coming for a visit.  She forbade me from watching the movie until she was with me.  A great date film... movie and a meal.  Too bad the TV series didn't get the opportunity to develope.   "},{"Title":"A real romantic comedy","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's good to see a romantic comedy involving someone other than those two dead sticks Meg Ryan and Julia Roberts.  The whole slant on the greek family traditions and way of life are very funny.  The father Gus and his mother were very funny.  She keeps saying damn dirty turks.  Gus always carries around the bottle of windex, which had me laughing.  Nia Vardalos and John Corbett kind of play it low key which makes everything going around them seem realistic.  6/10  Good "},{"Title":"Just doesn't have that indie vibe...","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A pleasent little movie that seemed to become more and more villified in proportion to the money that it kept grossing.  Released in April of 2002 this movie becams a box office jugarnaut in the summer...the fall...the winter...into part of the next spring when it was released on video.What seems to rankle people is that it is considered to be an independent film, yet it doesn't have the edginess that we expect from an independent. But, independent it was when every studio turned it down.  Not the greatest, but certainly not worthy of being despised.  A lot worse dreck has also grossed tons of moolah and not been trashed as much.Rita Wilson aka Mrs Tom Hanks produced this movie along with his production company.  I don't understand why one of the studios that he's made a gazillion dollars (Hello, Dreamworks?) for didn't take a flyer on it. Oh well. Their loss.   "}{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How it made me think of my mother growing up working in her uncle's restaurant, her father behind the grill. She, too, begged to go to college, and used Anglocized variations of her name.Maybe you have to be Greek to appreciate this movie fully.Toula's father says to her, you look so old--when will you get married?, and when her brother--just a year younger--says I'll get married, too, dad the father smiles and says, Oh, Nicky, you have plenty of time!.Did you catch her eating a sandwich on plain white bread with the in girls in college? Not going to make the same mistake twice! Her fiancé agrees to be baptized in the Orthodox church, and Toula's bimbo cousin Nikki is his godmother. Nice boobs.He must really love Toula a bunch, huh? Seems to pleasantly endure an awful lot the baptism, the pranks, the fact that his wedding is co-opted by her family and that his parents are marginalized. Yup, he must love their daughter a whole lot.Maybe they realize this?The food. Aunt Voula (Andrea Martin) tells Ian to come over her house for a big meal; he says he's a vegetarian and she says that's OK, I'll make lamb. And do you think Toula's mother peeled enough potatoes for dinner?If your family hasn't been in this country since the War of 1812, rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious romantic culture clash, with empathetic heroine","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An absolutely hilarious comedy, Grand Romance meets culture clash. My teenage son's friend (last name Papadopoulos) has a Greek born & reared father and a real wonderful little old Greek grandmother back in the Old Country. This particular Greek background family loved the movie, so it must ring true.Of course the story revolves around a shy 30 year old woman named Toula, trapped in her job at her Greek family's restaurant, Dancing Zorba's. She emerges from her shell to obtain a college diploma and start a new career as a travel agent. However, she really blossoms when she falls in love with a very unsuitable (according to her father) non-Greek WASP teacher named Ian. The story chronicles the culture clash as Toula must persuade her very traditional, opinionated father to accept Ian, and also introduce poor Ian to the Greek traditions and all her Big Fat Greek Family.Toula's blooming is remarkable (great actress in the role) and the very heart of the story. Many other women, including myself, will surely identify, having undergone somewhat of a lesser transformation themselves upon finding a man who appreciates them. Also, most everyone can relate to the unwelcome task of introducing the fiancé to some of the more 'challenging' kin we all have...the lazy, the crazy, or sometimes, even the downright nasty. As the saying goes, you can't choose your relatives...My favorite character is Toula's father, Gus. He makes this movie with his hilarious Windex obsession, his insistence that things be done HIS way. I often quote myself the famous head & neck comment regarding authority in marital relations! The best scene, in my opinion, is the 'performance' of the family ladies, who must attempt to convince Gus that it is HIS idea for Toula to work in her aunt's travel agency.Plenty of uproarious scenes though...the Greek pillars and statues of the family home, the BBQ spit on the front lawn, Aunt Voula's reaction to Ian's vegetarianism, the party held to introduce Ian's colorless & restrained parents to all the Greek kin (the bundt cake!), the brothers' teasing of Ian, the bantering barbs between the sister and her husband. Characters ALL amazingly well drawn. I love Aunt Voula!Wonderful Greek music! Made me feel like heading straight to the Mount Olympus Travel Agency myself and booking the first flight to Athens.My sole complaint is the baptism issue. Obviously, Ian's conversion to the Greek Orthodox Church held no religious significance for him, being done simply to appease his future Greek in-laws (not a great message). Even worse (though the screenwriters may have intended no malice), the kiddie pool. My husband is Roman Catholic, I'm Baptist, and I think you'll find most genuine Christians (Orthodox, Catholic, and Protestant) take baptism pretty seriously. Call me a fanatic, but I doubt I was the only viewer offended, and the writers could surely have found other material for their humor.That being said, it's a wonderful movie otherwise, and the closing scene priceless. Grab the popcorn and get ready for all the Big Fat Greek Fun. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being a Greek-American I can fully connect with what the main character goes through in My Big Fat Greek Wedding. All the traditions in the film occur at my house and every character I can identify with. I recommend this movie to anyone, especially those with Greek backgrounds.  "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Experience With This Film!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ahhhh! The Greek life! They were the 1st peoples to do ANYthing & EVERYthing, as 'Toula's father would have you believe. Her big fat Greek family is a hoot! (And her gorgeous brother, Nick is a true Greek treat for the eyes!!!) This is the story of 2 very different cultures trying to accept & make their way together in life. It works for 'Toula & her non-Greek man. He's been looking for someone different to settle down with because all the other women he's dated seem like clones of themselves. They're just blonde & pretty. But 'Toula is NOT blonde & NOT pretty when we 1st see her. She has mousy brown hair, hides her voluptuous (read NOT skinny) shape under mousy clothes, wears glasses too big for her face & has no motivation in life UNTIL she spies her future sitting in her family's restaurant where she works her life away and she pours him some coffee. Once she gets her parents to let her go to night school & run her aunt's travel agency, she becomes a swan seemingly overnight & Ian doesn't know what hit him when he meets up with her again at the agency! This film is funny! Even if you're Italian, you will see the similarities in the families! Big, loud, dark & ethnic! Lanie Kazan is a wonderful ethnic mother of WHATEVER kind! She's so believable! Michael Constantine (from Room 222 fame) is the old world dad who's stressing his daughters' life & wedding. See this with the family, WHATEVER kind of family you have! It's a good clean laugh!Put some windex on it! "},{"Title":"On the same grade level as Monsoon Wedding, fun if absolutely formulaic","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is cluttered with so much eccentricism and ikeability that those who identify with it more will enjoy it more.  I wouldn't see it again, at least for some long period of months, mainly because after a while it became somewhat heavy-handed and had absolutely no where else to turn after its main points were made. Now I know this is a romantic comedy and all, but how amny times do you see the guy use Windex and NOT think that it's hilariously original and magnificent. But, anyway, it is a good date movie, especially for older couples, and those who might know greeks more will be in on the in-jokes it makes from time to time (although it leaves out that old stereotype of, um, well, it is PG-13 so I shouldn't mention it here).  Plus, Nia Vardalos is one of the most charming women I've seen on screen this year which helps.  Despite its shortcomings (which it has up until the end), it has its originality, like the house.  B "},{"Title":"Utter poop","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was bought for me, and I was actually excited to watch it because of it's high rating here on IMDb.  It is thus one of the biggest disappointments of my entire life.  The acting is actually good for what the actors had to work with, but that's not saying much.  The script is *bad*. If you want some examples of what I'm talking about (SPOILERS!!) In the school scene where Toula asks Ian if they can elope, you can almost feel the tension of `I have no idea how to say this line.'  They can't put any real emotion behind these very tender and loving words because they're such empty, flat characters that emotion can't be imagined. In the scene where Ian tells his friend he won't be Ian's best man, it's as though Vardalos couldn't think of anything for either of them to say, so she just left the bits and pieces of various conversations in the script and called it a scene. After the dinner with Ian's parents, where they showed some kind of character (albeit atrociously stereotyped character) they say almost NOTHING AT ALL!   Again, through the wedding planning, the party with Toula's family, all of it, it's as though Vardalos just couldn't find something for them to say, so she left it out!  Now, one could see it as realistic; that often people are really like that when they're uncomfortable.  But if it's not interesting or funny, what's the point of realism?? I could go on.  I'll stop.  I don't mean to bash Ms. Vardalos' skill.  (If you're reading this, I'm sorry )  But the truth is that this movie just isn't good.  It fails as a romance because of poor (i.e. missing) character development, and it fails as a comedy because of poor (i.e. missing) dialogue. Rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"Filled with clichés","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm living in Prague, Czech Republic, where the movie was released not so long ago. I had heard and read so much about how great this movie was supposed to be, that I forced lots of my friends to come and see it with me. Horrible mistake. None of us even slightly liked the film. Ok, there are a few funny moments, but the characters are very cliché and we all had the feeling that we had seen the movie hundreds of times before. There was only one way how we could review it (sorry) too American and not Greek enough... To me it looked more like some silly money-making blockbuster, rather the work of an artist with a view and something to say (the moral was so plain and childish I felt offended !). Not sure Greek people will appreciate (no, I'm not Greek). And not sure I even learnt anything about the Greek culture in this ...  God, what a waste of time and money ...  "},{"Title":"Makes me want to never marry Greek!","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the romantic comedies when an unlucky girl finally gets lucky and finds the best guy ever! And added to this is her crazy Greek family that makes us all laugh.Well I have seen in some reviews people saying that there are many movies about such ethnic wedding but I can't think of any other, which is maybe why I did like the movie.I wouldn't care for the main plot, it is pretty much nonexistent. The groom (John Corbett) is pretty much characterless artifact being pushed around and not minding it. But those things are not really important for the movie, it is mainly about the constant laughs made on small jokes and not the main plot.And those work pretty well. They make me overlook one sided characters, the fact that her dad whom we should like is an old fashioned sexist bigot, the clumsy transformation of Toula. The good part is that the joke comes one after the other, so I can see why this movie was so popular in its time "},{"Title":"Cute, genuine film.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only watched My Big Fat Greek Wedding as it was nominated for an Oscar for Best Screenplay most likely for being a box office smash. It takes the rom-com model and applies it to Greek culture in a charming and informative way. While it has clichés of quirky side characters and such, it's done with such charisma that it's endearing enough to work in a unique way. The humour works, you come to care for the characters and it's edited with a Scorsese-like pace. I wish there wasn't such a distinct lack of conflict in the last act as it's almost as if the filmmakers couldn't bear to take their characters to the true crisis point and it ends not as satisfying as it could've been. Cute watch though.7/10 "},{"Title":"My reaction to My Big Fat Greek Wedding","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding Review Picture this you are driving through a normal, middle-class neighborhood. Each house is a basic duplex average size, two-car garage, two stories. But continue down the road, you notice one house stands out blatantly from the rest. It more-or-less has the aforementioned design, but what really catches your eye is its outer décor. This house doesn't have your typical plants and flowers; rather, it has a plethora of Greek statuettes adorning its lawn. And that two-car garage is not the usual beige or white; instead, it emulates the Greek flag. As you approach this atypical home, you probably begin to wonder, Who are the maniacs who designed this house?And coincidentally, it doesn't take long for this question to be answered, for coming out of the house are the supposed owners. First, a frail old woman emerges from the front doors. Rather infuriated, she cries out in Greek and continuously slaps the middle-aged man that follows her. Then suddenly, a crowd a mob of frantic Greeks appears out of thin air, chasing the elderly lady around the lawn screaming Yiayia! Yiayia! But then somehow the craziness subsides, and as they return to their home you are left to wonder,  Who are the deranged individuals that live in that deranged house? Well, to answer your question, those crazy people are the Portokalos', the family featured in Joel Zwick's My Big Fat Greek Wedding. Based on actress Nia Vardalos' (plays protagonist Toula Portokalos) life with her own family, the massive, abrasive, and intensely Greek Portokalos clan serves as a hilarious and surprisingly accurate representation of the typical European-American family. The crew is led by Gus (Michael Constantine) and Maria Portokalos (Lainie Kazan), the immensely opinionated and overbearing parents of Toula and her siblings Nick (Louis Mandylor) and Athena (Stavroula Logothettis). Strongly upholding their conservative Greek roots and values, the pair has only one wish for their two daughters to find nice Greek spouses, make nice Greek babies, and to feed everyone, 'til the day they die. However, while Toula's apparently perfect, older sister, Athena has accomplished all of these things (not only is she married, but she also has three children and another baby on the way), Toula is neither married nor, for that matter, dating. And as her overbearing relatives remind her of her current situation, Toula realizes that she, at thirty, is a complete disappointment to her family. Living in an overbearing Hungarian family myself, I am constantly subject to the blunt remarks of my relatives. So I can say from experience that with their periodic insults, Constantine and his co-stars Andrea Martin (Aunt Voula) and Gerry Mendicino (Uncle Taki) portray these brusque mannerisms with perfection. For instance, Gus's catch phrase I essentially a direct criticism of his daughter. Toula, you bettah get mahrried soon. You are starting to look OLD. And what's more, the first section of the movie consists of a hilarious exchange between Aunt Voula, Uncle Taki, and Gus. In a hilarious (and easily-audible) manner, the three discuss Toula's husband situation, unanimously agreeing with Gus that her current predicament is nokay. But the Portokalos' authentically European disposition isn't truly exemplified until our timid heroine meets the love of her life Ian Miller. After spotting the high school English teacher at her family's restaurant, she immediately admits herself into a local college, lands a job at Aunt Voula's travel agency, and goes through a Cinderella-esque transformation. So, after officially meeting at the aforementioned travel agency, the two are poised for a would-be perfect relationship. But, the key words are would and be. Like the average immigrant conservatives, Toula's judgmental Greek family members expect Toula to marry a Greek man, and only a Greek man, not an unknown American. And Ian unfortunately is the latter. Thus this new conflict sets the stage for pure insanity a la the Portokalos family. After being discovered by Toula's sassy cousin, Nicky (Gia Carides), Ian and Toula's relationship is immediately brought to the attention of the Portokalos clan. And although they feel shocked and slightly betrayed, the entire Portokalos family expresses their opinions on the matter as any true European family would whole-heartedly and passionately. Lainie Kazan is particularly successful in portraying this attitude. Employing the same sternness as my Hungarian Nana, she smiles slyly and says, So, you had a little romance&#x85; but end it now! And, of course Constantine, again nails his role as head of the house. Upon learning of the relationship he scolds Ian harshly, saying that he should have come to him to ask for permission to date Toula. But when Ian proposes to Toula and the Portokalos family is forced to accept the Millers into their brood, the Portokalos' eccentricities are truly enhanced. The Millers, comprised of Ian's parents Rodney and Harriet, are regarded as dry like a piece of toast. In their first official interaction, the Millers expect to meet Toula's family amidst a tranquil dinner; however, much to their surprise, Maria not only invites the whole entire clan but also plans a Greek extravaganza complete with a surplus of food, lamb on a spit, and plenty of drinks and OPPA's to go around. But arriving only with their bland personalities and a bunt cake (which Maria later fills with a potted plant), the simple (who is portrayed remarkably well by Bruce Gray and Fiona Ried) doesn't know how to react to the chaotic crowds of relatives, the disturbing stories of Aunt Voula (she tells a particularly memorable narrative about a lump on her neck), and copious quantities of alcohol. The Miller's reaction is not surprising. Any outsider would be overwhelmed by a family such as the Portokalos clan. The family's overly exuberant and forceful demeanor is staggering for someone who is used to a purely American lifestyle. But, speaking from my own experience with Hungarian-American relatives, these outrageous behaviors are simply the norm, and the cast of My Big Fat Greek Wedding portrays them with absolute brilliance. "}{"Title":"I'm jealous!","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My boyfriend and I watched this together last night, and the whole time we would just look at each other and say things like, we didn't have to try to get our families to like either of us. And we're really jealous that neither of us has a giant family that would want to take over our wedding. That just seems like so much fun, and anyone who has a big fat Greek family, should truly embrace it for what it is! The wedding looks like so much fun, the dancing the food, the amazing gift her father gives them... and so on. I definitely think they should have elaborated more on Ian's family, but I guess with that would probably make them seem less awkward. All in all, this was a fantastic film! "},{"Title":"This Greek Wedding Scores Like A  League of Nations in  Real, Old Fashioned , Belly Laughs!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It started with a one woman show, essentially an expanded Stand Up Comic's Routine. It was full of some of the little idiosyncrasies that exist in all of us. Add a pinch of hyperbole, and PRESTO! You've got a hit.As we recall there was no big ballyhoo campaign for this film. It simply got itself released and on a relatively few screens nation wide. Then, just like a Neuculear Chain Reaction, everybody was talking about it. The old word of mouth method of spreading news of a good thing still ranks up at the top of the list.It is simply, a love story or a story about sex, they always get our interest. No, not explicit scenes of naked-leave-nothing-to-the Imagination scenes that we have come to being used to see in our 'Cinematic Arts'. But the story of a sort of bashful, shy, young woman who hasn't had much of a social life, feeling that it is at least in part to her family's clinging to the ways of the Old Country, in this case being Greece.Though the story involves peculiarities of families of Greek ethnicity, we all know that all of our peoples have theirs. We could all have written our ethnic family stories and have it made into a successful, little romantic comedy. The big difference is we did not do it. Nia Vardalos did.Adding to the fine story line is a great cast. In particular, we have Lanie Kazan and Michael Constantine as her parents. John Corbet as Ian Miller, her Fiancée and Fiona Reid and Bruce Gray' playing his folks' make up about as Waspy a Family seen on the screen in many a moon.Of all the players in this picture, it was great to see Michael Constantine in such a great featured part. We have been watching his talents on the screen for many a year now. Let's hope we'll have him in many more.MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING was not big budgeted, certainly no blockbuster. It did not boast of any top Box Office Movie Star Types. The story is a sort of tale of everyman. In this case the family is Greek, in my case it would be Irish, but whatever the ethnicity is not important. It is a gentle, loving look at a common 0pccurrence to all of us. We can all laugh and see a little of ourselves. Just imagine, a common everyday type incident, with basically working class characters. And to think, this was tops at the Box Office! Hey Hollywood, there's a lesson to be learned here! "},{"Title":"Good romantic comedy that addresses cultural climates","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel that the best thing about this film is how it was able to capture what it's like being the first generation progeny of immigrant parents. For those who know, it's sometimes awkward to explain to others why one's family does what they do.  Throw in a foreign culture or religion and awkwardness can easily evolve into embarrassment as feelings of isolation or marginalization emerge.I'm not Greek, but I know what it's like being different from others (and not in that I'm so punk rock way, but in a true identity sort of way). Finding someone that can understand and appreciate your or your family's eccentricities truly is romantic.This film addresses the American melting pot environment in a light, enjoyable, and entertaining way.  "},{"Title":"A Thoroughly Enjoyable Romp","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't look too deeply here, this movie is what it is.  What it is is a mildly diverting comedy with heart.  I expected not to enjoy this, but realized that throughout the film I had a big smile on my face (most of the time) and the time passed quickly. I won't (I can't) laud the accolades some have, but neither does it deserve the spewing angst some have leveled at it.  A nice date movie with some wonderfully broad characters and a sense of genuine fun poking fun at wildly divergent cultures.  Sometimes, that's just what the doctor ordered! "},{"Title":"Truly perfect because it's perfectly true!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A timely reminder of how precious family is and how important it is to listen to your heart... Adorable character portrayals  and even the most 'annoying' Greek stereotypes are cast under such affectionate light... Nia Vardalos gave Greeks their pride back with a beautiful story of love, hope and the strength to follow one's dreams.Definitely worth seeing and pardon all your Greek friends laughing even as the film starts. Rating? 10/10. Ante geia mas! "},{"Title":"AWESOME & HILARIOUS FLICK!!!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read a lot of negative comments on here and that may be understandable coming from people who have no culture at all...to be honest with you all? if you want to understand this film  and to get the laughs out of it, then minority groups and other ethnic groups would truly understand this film, no offence but if you're white??? chances are you won't understand the film (unless you have a truly open mind or if you have good friends that have a strong ethnic background )..I ain't greek myself but I come from a strong and thick ethnic background , and pretty much most ethnic minority groups have the same understanding to those in the film ..ie, close to our parents, HUGE  (and I mean HUUUGGEEE) families as well as the LOUDEST Families in HISTORY, The gossip queens (our aunts) ,CHURCH CHURCH CHURCH , FOOD FOOD AND MORE FOOD!, respecting our elders, cracking up at our family members,GIGANTIC WEDDINGS and even lil things like 'meeting the parents' are HUGE things...or should I say HUGE PARTIES LOL  Therefore as a minor myself...I COULD TOTALLY RELATE to this film big time and man did I crack up or what !!!I just could not believe how TRUE this film was!!! anybody with an ethnic background should be able to relate to this whether you're GREEK, Puerto rican , hispancic, italian, Pacific Islander, filipino, all ethnic groups can relate to this film ESPECIALLY those who were educated in the states and have to grow up in two worlds, american and Greek or watever...!This film was too hilarious and if you didn't find it funny or you just didn't get it , Well then you will just NEVER understand these precious aspects of our culture ,you will always be narrow-minded, culturally INsensitive and ignorant .and well i guess you could say ...boring?  "},{"Title":"laughed a lot at this movie","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I laughed a lot at this movie.  My son and his wife told us to go and see it when it was showing in the theatre.  Wasn't interested, but as I noticed it on the shelf at the video store, I could hear my son's voice saying ...You'll get a good laugh at this movie!. He was right! We both did!This movie was a change of pace from a movie with foul language in it, and the boring sex act which we see over and over again.  I am so sick and tired of this lot. Nia Vardalos may well have sent a message to the plainer women in the audience ...it's amazing what you can do for yourselves if you try hard enough! How often do we see a movie, where the plainer woman marries the handsome guy?  NEVER! Therefore I enjoyed the change.  I also liked the message Ian (John Corbett) was sending out ...that he was bored with some of the girls being thrust upon him for a date. He was looking for more than just a good looking female. He wanted someone who could hold his interest.This movie Reminded me in a way of Tootsie which educated a lot of the men out there ... that a woman who wasn't 100% goodlooking, could be just as exciting and a lot of fun to be with, and yet they are passed over by most of the male population.Women with looks like Nia Vardalos can look beautiful when they smile and this changes their whole look.  Barbra Streisand comes to mind here. Definitely not beautiful, but does at certain times, when the camera closes in on her eyes, her best feature. However, I think many men could be perfectly happy with a woman like Nia who finally made the best of herself in this movie.More than likely the movie was greatly exaggerated, but I'm sure relationships like Ian and Tula's in this instance with a Greek family do take place with other ethnic families who refuse to give up their old ways, but sometimes are forced to yield a little.My main choice when it comes to movies is seeing a Suspense Thriller but I need to laugh lot too, and for sure this movie did make me laugh. "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was such a refreshing movie.  I think that the Greek theme makes this movie work.  We've done the other ethnic groups so many times, but this is a first for Greek.  Couple that with great casting, and it's a movie you won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Just not funny","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Impossible to explain what anyone found funny about this movie.  We weren't offended by the plot - it's a cute though one-dimensional and HEAVY handed story.  The older crowd laughed a lot, even at the straight lines.  So unless you're over 60 and think Jonathan Winters is haut-comedy, wait for the video and rent something else.  "},{"Title":"Lighthearted...","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And yet I still will never understand why people take a lighthearted romantic comedy that is meantto be a no-brainer, and twist it into a bunch of negative contortions as if the movie were meant to be the next Sundance Film Festival Winner. (Although I really dont know how many awards this film has won) Yes this movie wasn't the best movie that I have ever seen, but it was amusing in the way that it was lighthearted and warm, and wasn't jam packed with violence, or sex, or drugs, or anything else 99% of all movies today are based on. It's really sad when people have to critisize it so harshly. So it was the worst money you ever spent...big deal. So you hated it within the first 15 minutes...again...big deal. Walk to the box office and get a refund for pity's sake, no one forced you to sit through it. Sheesh!Anyhoo, At the risk of getting all worked up I just wanted to express that this movie was formidable. The acting isn't that spectacular but the story line it good, and makes you come out with a smile on your face. Well on mine at least. Take it for what it is. A light-hearted romantic comedy and everything will be fine.  "}{"Title":"***- a fun treat","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Lainie Kazan, Michael Constantine, Gia Carides, Louis Mandylor, Joey Fatone, Bruce Gray, D Joel Zwick. Vardalos' one-woman show counteracts this undemanding but warm and enjoyable heritage-comedy with her as a 30-year-old Greek woman, working at her family restaurant in Chicago, who finally meets the man she loves, a WASP, which might not go with Dad's customs when him and the entire family finds out. Feel-good, crowd-pleasing hit is a fun treat with crisp writing by Vardalos, which is more than sporadically funny. Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson are co-producers. Later a TV series. Running Time 96 minutes and rated PG for sensuality and language. *** "},{"Title":"overrated, but still good","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie isn't a great movie, but i think part of its appeal is that it doesn't make the obvious and annoying mistakes other movies make.  don't get me wrong, it's good movie, and clearly better than most of the crappy movies that came out that year.  i think women were looking for a movie that was funny and romantic and realistic.  there's no over-the-top drama towards the end, forcing the couple to break their engagement...  there's no drama about Ian finding out that Toula was the homely girl in the restaurant.  it's just a sweet movie without any forced contrivances.  i think the strongest part, in my opinion, was Lainie Kazan's performance.  her lines and her understanding of her daughter and her husband were touching.  i also liked the idea that Toula first gains confidence by going to school and then fixing herself up a little bit.  it wasn't a drastic makeover, but the kind of thing where you see a girl on the street and want to put makeup on her and tweeze her eyebrows.  i like that she takes the initiative to sit with the blonde girls.  i wasn't too crazy about the fact that she moves next door to her parents at the end, but all-in-all, thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Most excellent movie","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the HD transfer on hbo, which was pretty good btw, and I thought the movie was fantastic; one of the very best made in years. As far as comedy goes, it surprised me almost all other comedy movies recently produced have a couple of good laughs, yet My Big Fat Greek Wedding left me with the impression there were almost no 15 seconds breaks without laughing out loud the entire length of the movie. Although very well made in the comedy part, it was very captivating. There were also no 'fillers' that threw you out of the picture. The message of the movie is exceptional too, I mean there were a couple of scenes in the movie which touched home.. myself being originally from Romania, big family... Overall, it's a great movie and if you have the occasion to watch it, don't miss it. I'm a big movie fan and I don't quite remember another movie quite like it. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"I need an editor...","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes when I write reviews for films, I write faster than I think and I leave out some key prose along the way. Here is what I really wanted to say  Greek Wedding deserved the Best Original Screenplay Oscar NOMINATION it received. The script is cleanly and sharply written and a lot of love was put into it.  The other correction is that it is refreshing to see a romantic comedy that DOESN'T have a gay character in it. Most of the romantic comedies I have seen in the last five years have this aspect (that doesn't mean that they all suck I love Chasing Amy and My Best Friend's Wedding) but it was a change of pace and that isn't always a bad thing. Those are my correction, so this is where my rants end. "},{"Title":"The Greeks Are Not Alone","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie does reveal that Greeks like their food, party and dance.  But they are not alone.  I find that Polish and Italian are the same way.  If you attend an event by any of these three ethnic groups and you leave bored or hungry, you have yourself to blame.  As as the church scene goes, I attend a Russian Orthodox Church and seen adult baptisms but nothing like what was shown in the movie but that is Hollywood for you!  I know that we do not have an organ in our church but I do not know if the Greek Orthodox has one or not.  I do know of other ethnics who want you to marry in their own background but that does not always happen.  Not even in parts of Europe.  But I like the scenes where the Greeks are having fun with Ian by having him use the language on other Greeks in a funny way.  I can relate to that.  All in all, I do like this movie and recommend it to others.  "},{"Title":"You don't have to be Greek to love this movie.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The mixing of Greek language and old customs in an American society is my favorite part. If you have not seen this movie go to your local video store and rent it. The language and flow of the story is great. This is one of those movies that you can watch many times without getting tired of it. "},{"Title":"Cheers to Nia","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cheers to Nia for doing this on her own and making millions. Vardalos is a very charming woman who did the absolute right thing by casting herself in the lead. Sometimes that's not the way to go and the person who writes the flick doesn't look or feel the part. But, just as Stallone did in Rocky, Vardalos fits the part perfectly in Wedding. Again, support Indie flicks. This is a very good film. 7/10. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Successful","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I seriously don't think My Big Fat Greek Wedding was meant to be an art film. It's most likely meant to be cute stuff, and in that case it's very successful. It touches many issues which could be of interest to virtually any human being, but even more so to someone who's familiar with Greek culture. Exaggerations are well-managed and never get disturbing (which is correlated to the fact that it's a comedy), and not for a minute does it get boring. Nia Vardalos is really good, and so is the rest of the cast. Good film by all means. Definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sparkling, magical romantic comedy about a young Toula (Nia Vardalos) who is from Greece now living in the USA living with her family and working in their diner. At 30, she remains unmarried and her mother and father become more desperate to find her a good Greek husband. Problem is after a make over Toula finds herself falling in love with an American school teacher. Sharp writing with witty dialogue and insightful characterizations and winning performances from the entire cast make this outing extra special. Windex nearly steals the entire movie from the cast.Rated PG; Profanity. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has nothing to do with Greek-Americans. Greek- Americans have integrated unremarkably into American society. If you want to learn something of what Greek-Americans add to the American mosaic, watch Elia Kazan's America, America. As an American of Greek ancestry, what I carry proudly from my Greek heritage are things like the Greek people saying OXI (No) to Mussolini's ultimatum in 1940 at a time when other nations were looking to get out of the Nazi/Fascist war machines' way. That event hearkens back to Thermopylae where 300 Greek blocked a narrow mountain pass and made the taking of it so costly to the invading army that the rest of the Greek armies regrouped to win the main battle. To analogize to a scene from an overused Western scene, Greeks are the little guys in the saloon who, when the bad men come in and everyone runs out of their way, politely refuse any intimidating demands. They may lose and they may get killed, but they will not stand down. Greeks always choose right over wrong, even when wrong is very convenient. E.g. Greeks, during both World Wars, would never co- operate with Nazis just because they may have a gripe against the British. The Greek instinctively knows that Greece's allies always marginalize and ignore Greece's concerns after the war is over; nonetheless, they will choose the side of right over might--any day. The people depicted in this film are people whose crass materialism masquerades as ethnic pride, unconsciously exaggerating their ethnicity and clannishness (or clownishness) to make up for how far from Greek values they have strayed. The Italian movie Mediterraneo had a far better appreciation of Greek character and culture than this movie. But if you hate Greeks,then by all means watch and promote this film to others. "}{"Title":"My Big Fat It's Not All That Wedding","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As the film starts, Toula (the heroine of the film) looks like Mrs Doubtfire's ugly sister but a brief night school computer course sees her transform from the proverbial ugly duckling into...ahem...well she never was going to be an oil painting. Still, a touch of lippy and mascara and a personality transplant to go with it and she gets the hunky but dull Ian to bend over backwards to accommodate her and her family. Yes, and pigs might fly! Why did I think I was watching the TV movie remake of Moonstruck? Exchange overbearing Italian family for overbearing Greek family and BOOM you got My Big Fat Greek Wedding. It's really not a bad film but gawd knows why it got so many plaudits. "},{"Title":"A Cinderella Story on several levels that became an instant classic","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING was a beautifully mounted romantic and family comedy that was a do or die project for its star, Nia Vardolos, who also wrote the screenplay. Vardolos plays Toulah, a plain-Jane Greek girl, who feels trapped in the life that her family seems to have trapped her in until she gets a makeover, goes to school, takes over her aunt's travel agency and actually meets her Prince Charming, who is not Greek (horrors!). Vardolos has written a smart and engaging comedy with a main character who you instantly relate to and route for. Vardolos is a revelation in the role of Toulah...there is not a false note in her performance and she makes Toulah someone we have to care for instantly. John Corbett (Aidan on SEX AND THE CITY) makes a perfect Prince Charming and Lanie Kazan takes her patented Jewish mother turn and gives it a Greek accent as Toulah's mom. Michael Constantine charms as Toulah's father and Andrea Martin steals every scene she's in as Toulah's aunt. A near perfect screen comedy that became a contemporary movie classic. "},{"Title":"One Big Fat Annoying Movie","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At first, I thought this was gonna be a slick romantic comedy, nothing wrong with it... but it turned out really bad. At first, the story of an ugly duck wanting to marry at 30 is pretty funny... but Vardalos turns out to be *so* annoying, not telling her family to stick it... well you know where, and this Ian guy just plays along with it... why? There's nothing nice, interesting, attractive or anything special about the Toula character, so why even marry her, in her family's way? It just doesn't make any sense. The 'happy' (but not quite in my opinion) ending is as cheesy as possible, and I haven't even mentioned yet the stereotypical way the Greek are being portrayed in this movie... yuck! 3/10 (for the OK beginning). "},{"Title":"Boring Hollywood-y Cliche Drivel","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is awful.  Disguised as 'ethnic art film,' it's just mainstream, cliche, unoriginal, uninsightful drivel with lousy acting and terrible script.  Plain woman puts on makeup one day and is suddenly gorgeous vixen; she exchanges three lines of inane dialogue with man and suddenly they are in love.  Her family is a clan of unelaborated stereotypes, and behave in largely implausible ways; his family is absurdly unbelievable.  This movie is stupid.  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Utterly bland and uninteresting.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There really isn't much to say about this, the most successful independent film of all time. There is no real conflict in the film, the characters are uninspired stereotypes; the only recommendation anyone can honestly give is that it's cute. Some have told me that it is a realistic portrayal of Greeks in America; I think Greeks should be insulted by this. Am I to believe that this is the same culture that produced the foundations of all philosophy, as well as some of the greatest mythology and art of all time (not to mention Nikos Kazantzakis, author of ZORBA THE GREEK and THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST)? The fact that all of the film's so-called humor is derived from the cultural differences of the Greeks does not make the film realistic or in any way charming. It is, instead, a testament to the stupid complacency of American culture that we saw this movie (many of us more than once), while we let great films like HUMAN NATURE, DAS EXPERIMENT and THE GREY ZONE go relatively unnoticed. "},{"Title":"two important points before viewing this film","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Point # 1  This movies sucks.Point # 2 See point # 1. I'm writing the next two lines because I am required to write at least four lines to make this comment valid.  -T. Furrows "},{"Title":"Walk out","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All I can say is this movie is absolute crud so be brave and exercise your right to walk out. Don't believe any of the reviews it's the most boring unfunny movie of the year. The story is so predictable and all the jokes have been done to death before and at least ten times better. "},{"Title":"WHAT is all the hype about?","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is one of the most over-rated films ever made. It's even more so than 'Finding Nemo' (that movie was GOOD, not GREAT). I saw this after all the hype and grosses, and I gotta tell ya This is the first movie that I've ever turned off on video. 30 minutes was enough to make me turn it off. Usually, I'm stubborn and watch a film to the end. Not so here.For starters, the stereotypes and the cheesy accents here are just awful. They didn't sound Greek to me; they sounded like Hollywood actors attempting to sound Greek. Also, John Corbett is a terrible actor. I'm sorry, he just is. The family was over-the-top, and I found my interest gradually decreasing as time went on.One thing that I did like in 'Wedding' was Nia Vardalos. She's charming and acts well, but I think this probably worked better as the one-woman play. Out of the 30 minutes I saw of this movie, 'Wedding' is truly horrendous. "},{"Title":"junk","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I sat through My Big Fat Greek Wedding on TV and I want the two hours of my life back (actually, it seemed like more) I lost watching this filler material.  How this movie ever garnered the attention it received is beyond me.The overacting, absurd stereotyping, and fake accents are pathetic.  The depiction of Greek families living in 21st century America... I'm not Greek and I'm offended.There is no way to provide any spoilers, as the entire plot of the movie is contained in the title.  Everything is predictable and trite.  The movie has the substance of a Hostess Twinkie.  The characters have the depth and believability of a laundry detergent  commercial.It's a sad comment on the level of movies today, when a formulaic piece of fluff like this gets so much attention.  "},{"Title":"Another case of too much hype not enough substance","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a huge disappointment, especially after all the fuss people made. The only slightly funny scenes were all in the trailer - you didn't need to watch anything else. It was predictable and, frankly, often boring. "}{"Title":"Grease","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The Greeks did not invent robust language, mathematics, science or self-reflection. They merely appropriated them from the Persians (and Egyptians). But they did add something marvelous, the idea of narrative exposition of these, and so we have philosophy, history, `science' and drama which in form are all the same. Of these, drama has special power above the others, a power that continues today in film the power to create imagination. Not respond to, but create -- that notion of the new mind was the assumption of _all_ Greek drama and underlies intelligent film today. One goes in expecting to be transformed, if even in a minor way. It was never about amusement.Now fast forward. Because of all sorts of deviance and adaptation (itself an interesting story) of the storytelling form, we have a tradition of standup comedy. The core of standup is to ridicule others in a way that cuts close to dearly protected notions of self. This is a true art, and fully vibrant today. Along comes one practitioner, Ms Vardalos, with some trenchant observations about relatively ignorant immigrants in America and their amusing foibles. This follows hundreds or thousands of such similar bits. Even in this form, one can see it was a very good bit of standup. Fun, amusing, challenging, even edifying in a way. But the Hollywood maw is desperate for `content' so it swallows everything even remotely expected to be tolerable when transformed into a film.In this case, what we end up with is a standup routine, illustrated with pictures, similar in a way to how `Christmas Story' illustrated Shepard's radio stories.It shines when we hear directly from Vardalos either in word or in her double takes as she winks at the audience. But the pictures themselves aren't reproduced here as comic abstractions which would be the successful way. They are created as `real' in the fashion of a Drew Barrymore journey of self-discovery through a love story. These people are presented as real. (The title of the comment refers to how the pictures should have been handled, in a pretend world, like `Grease,' or after the fashion of Christopher Guest.So what we have is a clash between the original notion of the Greeks where we vainly search for the reason we are watching, and a standup routine _about_ Greeks at whom we are supposed to laugh precisely because there is no reason there.I suppose many people will enjoy this because they take it as simple standup, meant to amuse and possibly endear. But not me, I respect the Greeks too much.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Ethnicaly Cleansed","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was disappointed with this film, it had a lot of hype and was self proclaimed comedy of the year. Well, maybe the people of North America with identity crisis' found it hilarious, but as somebody who doesnt think he is Greek-Scotch or Dutch-Irish i just wasn't amused by the constant I'm very Greek, me gags. Thus, the very esscence of the comedy was lost making this pretty dull. Past the very thin concept, there was no substance. There is a word for people who are born/raised in America, we call them Americans, its nothing to be ashamed of man! "},{"Title":"At Least I Didn't Pay To See It","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Man, THIS thing has made over 200 million dollars??? I can understand some moviegoers wanting to just sit back and relax and watch the kooky family and listen to punchlines that Neil Simon wouldn't write even under a bad fever, BUT come on - this is beyond bland - the plot moves along like a coloring book - look, ugly frumpy girl - father wants her to get married, she dreams of going to college and becoming.....a TRAVEL AGENT!!! Okay, fine, gets her out of the house. What I loved was once her dream was realized they have the one-dimensional brother dream of.....going to college. Uh, just like her. Wow!*** SPOILERS****SPOILERS******* (like this plot has one genuine bone in it's fake body!!!)It's like Nia just watched Moonstruck and Educating Rita and Cinderella and the Ugly Duckling and then threw them all into a blender to make a.....bad TV movie. And look, it IS good that 'normal everyday' looking people get on movie screens, but I'm sorry, they tried to shoot her from every angle, with every kind of lighting and the girl just aint easy on the eyes. And did you notice they NEVER and I mean NEVER shot her from behind. Hmmmmm. Interesting. John Corbett tried VERY hard to make us believe he was attracted to her and that someone on the bad dates montage, that she has made him feel alive. He had to say some of the lamest dialogue south of a soap opera. And his character was just this cardboard yuppie, this empty shell of a WASP who just turns himself over to her, yes dear, let's MOVE NEXT DOOR TO YOUR PARENTS at the end. What a dream! Yes, there are some funny scenes and some GOOD lines but for this movie to take off demands the government investigate immediately. Check the water. Something!!! Man, BRIDGET LOVES BERNIE looks like Shakespeare compared to this pablum. Yikes! P-U!  "},{"Title":"Pointless tat","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Greek Girl meets Non-Greek Boy.  They have different cultural backgrounds. They get married.  A truly linear film.  Don't bother looking for twists, there aren't any; don't bother looking for any profundity, there isn't any; don't look for any humour that may be construed as even mildly recursive; it is all surface and obvious. In short, don't bother. Pointless tat for the no-brain society. "},{"Title":"Big Fat (BORING) Wedding","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So *where* was the comedy in this movie?  I expected to laugh -- even a little -- but other than one...maybe two scenes, it simply wasn't funny.  Yea, it was funny like when your grandfather makes a cute joke - everyone smiles, but no one goes to work the next day and shares it as one of the funniest things.   This movie is no different.   There's a lot to smirk about, but I don't think I laughed out loud even once.The humour, if you can call it that, is neither intellectual, bathroom, sophmorish, or sophisticated.   Its simply not funny.  "},{"Title":"Over-rated Trash","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The hype for this film has inflated its reputation to ridiculous proportions.  The story is cliched, the characters are stereotypical, and the humor is far less hit than miss.  The entire story plays in a shallow, two dimensional manner that leaves the viewer feeling like they just watched a mediocre sitcom.  John Corbett is shaggy, smiley, and incredibly vapid.  Nia Vardalos brings nothing but the fact that she's Greek to this overdone ugly-duckling story.  To their credit, Lainie Kazan, Andrea Martin, and Michael Constantine elicit a few chuckles, though they are restricted by their one-trick-pony characters.  As a whole, I was entirely unimpressed by this bland, over-hyped schlock. "},{"Title":"sap","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In spite of the title, this movie isn't very funny.  Rather, it is a sappy melodrama a'la Pretty In Pink.  But, while it's easier to excuse that movie because it was made in the 80s and was about high school kids, to see the same plot applied to grown adults in the 21st century is inexcusable and kind of sad. "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I admire everyone who had the mental power to stand the whole film (actually the 6 euros that left my pocket forced me to). It is so idiotic you have to have brain disease at an advanced stage to enjoy the jokes and the humor of it. And at least, if you are trying to portray Greeks, use Greek actors! For us in Greece it was ridiculous to see Americans trying (and obviously failing) to imitate Greeks in their speech, their dance and their movements. By the way you won't find a single family in Greece remotely resembling these comic figures (well perhaps in some really remote rural areas). And while I certainly know this has nothing to do with Greeks of Greece, I was told by quite a few people that it really strikes a Greek-American chord! We usually say here that people who left Greece during the 50s somehow froze their minds at this decade and carry with them this (non-existent nowadays) picture of Greece. This movie proves it. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and preachy ethnic comedy","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film after listening to 3 film critics on NPR provide a favorable review.  What a disappointment.  The film features poor acting, shallow characters, trite situations and predicable results.  No originality, no tension. The main character is dowdy, getting old in a hurry with no prospects for marriage when she meets a customer in her father's restaurant and falls in love with him.  He is WASPish, tall, dark and handsome.  What he sees in her is the lynchpin of the film and its weakest point.  None of the characters are believable  to describe them as two dimensional would be a compliment. "},{"Title":"~ tries too hard ~unintelligent~ forced humor ~ not at all funny","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm so glad to see that others disliked this movie as I did and for the same reasons. 'It's only funny (or sad) if it makes sense' as said by another reviewer. So true ! This is such unintelligent humor that so forced and overdone and unoriginal. And the characters are so cold-hearted and miserable but not in a funny way-in a creepy way. And since we're talking about a movie filled with stereotypes, I can say that I'd always thought the Mediterranean people for the most part were a warm and inviting people. Not here. The way they treated Ian was so uncomfortable and senseless and just weird. It was yet another film that made white men look weak and like big defenseless dorks. I'm married to a white dude who if my family would have treated him that way, he'd say a few choice words and never return and I wouldn't blame him; in fact I'd follow him out the door. And I realize that the whole point of the movie is that her family is so involved in her life because they care and blah blah but enough already! It got old and sickening after a while. OK we get it, you're close-knit and you fight and bicker because you love each other and that's your Greek culture etc. etc I wanted to puke already. Even Toula wasn't the friendly, sweet character I had in mind. Instead, she really lacked personality and warmth. You expect to fall in love with and root for the main character especially in a comedy like this, but I was halfway through the movie and didn't care whether she was happy in the end or what happened to her. And no one was sitting on the groom's side of the church why? I guess it's comical that white people tend to have smaller and/or unsupportive families and less friends than Greeks ?? Not to me. And the way she looked before her makeover? C'mon! Who looks like that? It's not like she was supposed to have a mental disorder or something. Like I said, it's forced and unoriginal. It tries way too hard. I kept wondering when is it going to get good? When is it going to get funny? I can't believe that it's a hit.... Actually I can believe it. Movies that appeal to the masses usually suck. Good humor needs to be smart, clever and witty. This film and its storyline are none of the above. "}{"Title":"Torturous","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I find it unfathomable that this film was the breakout hit of last year.  My only guess is that it drove people to the theatre who were excited that it was low on curse words and sex.  Which is fine, but I wish that they could have added a bit of humor or drama. There has been a lot of crowing about the crass stereotypes in this film, to which I can only respond what stereotypes?  These characters are drawn so flimsily that they don't even reach the level of stereotypes.  Michael Constantine, playing the supposedly charming and wacky father, is colorless except for an obsession with Greek root words and the healing powers of Windex.  Are you laughing yet?  I hope so, because that's all you get. But at least Constantine has a couple of defining character traits.  We learn nothing about the other characters except that they are Greek.  Well, Greek and obnoxious.  This movie would have us believe that Greek Americans' life revolves entirely around their ethinicity, and yet the only defining thing about being Greek is that you sit around and constantly discuss the fact that you are Greek. For contrast, we have Corbett's parents, who embody some nightmare thumbnail sketch of Waspish stereotype.  Surreally quiet and psychotically uncomfortable, they act as if they've never met a mediterranean before.  The exchange of idiocies when the WASP mother tries to explain to the apparently retarded Greek mother that the cake she brought to dinner is a bundt cake is one of the more cringe inducing comedy moments here. Another reviewer here remarked, as if it were a good thing, that the observations in this movie could be easily applied to any number of ethnic groups.  I wholeheartedly agree, and add that all it would take to turn it into My Big Fat Italian (Jewish, Mexican, Puerto Rican, Armenian, Spanish, etc.) Wedding would be a quick find/replace command on the screenwriter's laptop. When a movie's highest moment of tension comes from a wedding morning zit (a problem solved minutes later by a stick of cover up)  you know you're dealing with a limp excuse for a film. I'm not asking for The Graduate here, but frankly I can't find a thing about this movie that is worth your time or money.  But, apparently, America disagrees, so this movie made over 200 million bucks and is not being turned into the sitcom it always more or less resembled.  Go figure. "},{"Title":"Twizard Rating 94","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Boy, how well does this film holds up 14 years later. Can we finally admit to its greatness now?Whatever tropes it derives from the rom-coms of old serve only to make us feel comfortable in its grasp. But don't let the formula fool you. This film is anything but cloying. It opts out of cliché and sappy--instead, giving us rompy situations that we could actually see happening in our own lives. Toula, played by Nia Vardalos, who also wrote the film, is a 30-year-old woman whose family fears will become an eternal spinster. She doesn't seem to care about her appearance, and she is very awkward when it comes to talking to other people. She is of Greek origin, and her family won't let her forget it. They're the type who only talk to other Greek people. On the other hand, Toula doesn't care.She meets Ian (John Corbett), who isn't Greek. They fall in love and want to get married, but have to deal with the wrath of her family--mostly her father, played by Michael Constantine.The cast is perfect--especially Constantine, who we are often times convinced is Vardalos' actual father playing himself.The humor is mostly made of inside jokes from Greek culture. If you're not savvy on that, you might think you won't understand. But the script does an excellent job of not making us feel like an outsider. And most of us have families with weird traditions and tendencies, too, so we get it.There are a few lulls in the narrative, but the script always recovers well with something funny around the corner.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is truly funny in the most organic way possible. The scenarios all seem real. Vardalos is believable and hilarious in the lead role. She channels the sort of uninhibitedness that Lucille Ball was known for. Almost like a Kristen Wiig before her time.But most of all, this film speaks to generations of society who can't see past cultural differences. It was relevant back in 2002, and is still very much that way now. It's a tale we've been seeing, in one way or another, for centuries now, but still can't seem to get us to change our ways. Although no one's life is at stake in this film, we could all learn a thing or two from the story. It's deceptively deep. Twizard Rating 94 "},{"Title":"A great cute little romance!","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Originally, the cast and crew behind this movie did not expect it to take off and be nearly as big of a hit as it actually turned out to be. The great success that this film received is very well deserved! I love this movie for many different reasons, one big one is the superb writing. The very original screenplay that was written for my big fat Greek wedding is hilarious, heart warming, cute, romantic, and very smart. I love John Corbett and Nia Vardalos here, their chemistry on screen together as a couple is awesome, it looks so authentic and they really convince the whole audience that they really do love each other and want nothing else than to be together, to be married. The rest of the family is great too! The cast has really hysterical lines of dialogue that they share amongst one another, and then there are scenes of true love, both romantic and love amongst family members. Tula's brothers, Nick being one of them, are great characters and they make for some funny scenes. The other characters, like aunt Voula, is very hilarious all throughout the movie! 9/10 for my big fat Greek wedding! Go and have some fun. "},{"Title":"No pop culture footprint = no offense, sort of","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's intriguing to note that despite My Big Fat Greek Wedding still boasting the title of the highest grossing romantic comedy, like most romantic comedies, the impact this left on pop culture as a whole was slight and almost unrecognizable; similar to James Cameron's Avatar, still the highest grossing film worldwide, yet a film that sparks nothing but opinions that go against what people initially thought of the film. If My Big Fat Greek Wedding doesn't speak volumes about the genre of romantic comedies, I'm not sure what does.It's not necessarily that My Big Fat Greek Wedding is forgettable, but even worse, it kind of is what it is; a one-note joke or a Saturday Night Live skit stretched out to feature-length. The result is a film that incites a few smiles, chuckles, and an interesting indie sleeper hit story, but nothing more. Couple these features with the fact that this film's ending is just about the most unsurprising and corniest ending about family, acceptance, and difference I've yet to see in film, and you have a romantic comedy that really can't measure up to its level of monetary success by proving its much different than its less-impacting counterparts.The film revolves around Fotoula Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos), a quirky Greek woman in the middle of a fierce midlife crisis. At thirty, she is unmarried and ostracized by her parents Gus and Maria (Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan) for failing to find a man and become a baby machine like her older sister Athena (Stravroula Logothettis) to further give her parents purpose in their elderly years. Toula states early on in the film that the three prime expectations of Greek women are to marry a Greek boy, make Greek babies, and feed everyone until the day she dies. Toula's parents are traditionalist Greeks in the sense that they wet guests' faces with kisses when they walk through the door, overstuff their guests with food, and, specifically Gus, try to cure every human ailment with Windex. Because of that, they seem to believe that all other people who aren't Greeks are secretly in denial of their heritage and wish they were Greeks. The family is in for a culture shock, however, when Toula meets and falls madly in love with Ian Miller (John Corbett), a handsome and kind school teacher, who just so happens to be non-Greek and lack any kind of discernible heritage, typical for many people who are fourth or fifth generation immigrants where culture is subsequently lost in the shuffle of assimilation.Regardless, the state of the family is sent into a dramatic tailspin by Toula's traditionalist parents, who can't see how this man is capable of anything without having a Greek background. The film becomes a story of Gus and Maria needing to accept their daughter's newfound beau, in addition to a story about Ian learning to accept Toula's parents for their very conservative and sometimes narcissistic view of their own heritage.The result is a film predicated off of lampooning, satirizing, and overblowing common conventions of Greek people, none of which so much as negative or harmfully stereotypical as much as they are pretty simple-minded and predictable. Having said that, the actors and actresses on hand make My Big Fat Greek Wedding the moderately enjoyable experience that it is, particularly Vardalos, who throws herself into the autobiographical tale of meeting her husband getting the respect that both her and him deserved. Before the big screen, which consisted of little else besides a $5 million budget from IFC Films and studio executives crossing their fingers that word of mouth would carry this picture, Vardalos conducted this project as a stage-play, in a manner that recalls the zealous energy exhibited by Tyler Perry to get noticed in the public eye. Assisted by a cast of spirited performers, particularly Michael Constantine, who knows how to tight-rope walk the fine line of overacting and emphatically portraying a brazen archetype of a character, Vardalos and her screenplay really cannot lose in the acting department.The problem, I suppose, with My Big Fat Greek Wedding is just how simple of a film it is. When you find out the film is largely about changing peoples' prejudices, which, to be fair, aren't really harmful in an explicit or predatory sense and more-or-less exist as the kind of impulsive small talk families create over Thanksgiving/Christmas dinner, the conflict really becomes silly at best. While this kind of friction definitely exists, there are more compelling stories to be told about a lack of acceptance in a family and this film, with its dramatic depictions that ultimately wind up conveying a silly sense of screwball comedy, get rather repetitive after a while and one is left trying to rest the weight of the film's quality on the shoulders of the performers, which isn't entirely fair for a comedy.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is the perfect rainy Sunday film in that it's simple enough where you could watch it over and over again and not get tired of it thanks to its generally upbeat and silly nature; a feel-good film, if you will, despite the fact that lead character is often made to feel bad. One could say it oversimplifies the everlasting hell out of Greeks and Greek culture, but circumventing to my point about this film leaving relatively no cultural footprint, I don't even think you could make such an argument. Save such for a film with an impact outside of the monetary sense.Starring Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Michael Constantine, Lainie Kazan, and Stravroula Logothettis. Directed by Joel Zwick. "},{"Title":"The highest-grossing romantic comedy and one of the most satisfying comedies ever made!","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the spring of 2002, I went to see a romantic comedy about which I had heard very little. The movie's lack of advertising made it seem like it wasn't a very big deal and its focus on an ethnic heritage that was not my own made me think that I might have trouble relating to the story. I couldn't have been more wrong. Before the opening credits were over, I decided that I would buy the movie's DVD when it came out. The reason that I'm relating my personal experience seeing this particular film is that I believe it matches the experiences of many other Movie Fans who saw My Big Fat Greek Wedding (PG, 135).The film originated as a one-woman stage show in which actress and Second City alum Nia Vardalos entertained audiences with her take on growing up in a Greek family and then marrying a non-Greek. Actress Rita Wilson saw the play and suggested that her husband, Tom Hanks, create a film version through his production company, Playtone Entertainment. The result was a $5 million movie that became a sleeper hit, earning $368.7 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing romantic comedy &#x96; and one of the most profitable films ever.Surprisingly, the film never topped an individual weekend box office, but its slow build, aided by strong word of mouth, resulted in the movie being in U.S. theaters for 52 weeks, over half of that time in wide release. Vardalos received an Oscar nomination for her screenplay and acting nominations from the Hollywood Foreign Press (the Golden Globes) and the Screen Actors Guild. Unfortunately, she didn't win any of those awards, but Movie Fans won big, having been blessed with this wonderful comedic gem.Fotoula Toula Portokalos (Vardalos) is a single 30-year-old American born to a large, proud, loud, tightly-knit Greek family in which she feels smothered and trapped. She works as a hostess at Dancing Zorba's, the Greek Restaurant owned by her father (Michael Constantine) and mother (Lainie Kazan) in Chicago. Toula lives in an obnoxiously Greek-looking suburban home with her parents, grandmother (Bess Meisler) and younger brother, Nick (Louis Mandylor), who works as a cook at Dancing Zorba's.Toula's sassy older sister, Athena (Stavroula Logothettis) has married a Greek boy and made Greek babies, as Toula's voice-over tells us she is also expected to do, but Toula wants something more out of life. With her traditional, but sympathetic mother's help, Toula's stubborn father agrees to let her take some courses at a local college. She builds on her earlier success in high school computer classes and ends up going to work at the travel agency owned by her Aunt Voula (Andrea Martin) and Uncle Taki (Gerry Mendicino). As she expands her horizons, Toula starts paying more attention to her appearance, becomes more social and gains confidence&#x85; but all that is only the beginning of her transformation.In her various jobs, Toula keeps running into tall, handsome local high school teacher, Ian Miller (John Corbett). Ian has tired of the string of ordinary women that his best friend, Mike (Ian Gomez, Vardalos' real-life husband) sets him up with, and he finds Toula to be refreshingly different. Toula keeps her budding romance a secret from her family until her meddling Cousin Nikki (Gia Carides) comes to tell her the family knows. What follows is a series of humorous scenes in which Ian works to gain the acceptance of Toula's family, is repeatedly hazed by her brother and their Cousin Angelo (Joey Fatone), and tries to help his very reserved, upper middle class WASPy parents (Bruce Gray and Fiona Reed) to get to know Toula's extremely outgoing very Greek family. Of course, given this movie's title, it's obvious where the story goes from here, but this film is not about the destination. It's about the ride.My Big Fat Greek Wedding isn't just one of the best romantic comedies of all time, it is, in my not-so-humble opinion, one of the best comedies of all time, period. Of course, it all starts with Vardalos' brilliantly insightful and hilarious script. After watching this movie for the Nth time to refresh my memory before writing this review, I still found myself repeatedly laughing out loud. As the script's jokes make us laugh with a combination of ethnic humor and many simply funny situations, it also makes its unusual characters and plot very relatable. Who among us can't identify with weirdness in our family, the search for true love and acceptance and the desire to be ourselves and make the most of our lives? But the script is only one of many elements that makes this rich Greek meal so deliciously enjoyable to so many different kinds of people. After directing several highly successful television sitcoms, like Perfect Strangers and Family Matters, Joel Zwick (no relation to Edward) helms this movie with a keen eye for comedy and a sensitive feel for the characters' emotions. He mines all situations for every conceivable laugh, but never lets us lose sight of Toula's journey, which is the beating heart of the story.Vardalos had offers to make her play into a movie before Wilson and Hanks came along, but the earlier prospective producers wanted to change much of the story and didn't want to cast her in the lead role. As a Movie Fan, I'm very thankful that she stood her ground and eventually signed with Playtone. She is a very talented comic actress and her presence in the lead brings an authenticity that makes the whole thing work. Meanwhile, equally authentic and funny is the wonderful cast of supporting players who are all perfect for their roles and represent ingredients I believe are essential to the movie's overall flavor.Consider My Big Fat Greek Wedding to be very highly recommended by this xeno Movie Fan. "},{"Title":"Wish I could have liked this movie more...","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first time I watched this movie, I liked it. Then, I started to think about it and realized that I actually don't like it. The main problem is probably me because I have issues with plots that revolve around over-bearing families being the problem in the protagonist's life. The reason why I have issues with that plot is that the family is almost never confronted by the protagonist about their over- bearing behavior. It is always the protagonist's fault for not liking her over-bearing family. To me, that's a problem. Yes, the protagonist should evolve love their family, but the family should also realize that there is a time and a place to be over-bearing. For example, when Toula and Ian where at Toula's house deciding on wedding invitations and such, Toula's sister (or her mother, I can't remember) says she made the wedding invitations, that Toula has to invite relatives she doesn't know, and her cousin Nicky walks in with her design for the bridesmaid dress. If I were Toula, I would have snapped. I would have appreciated what they were doing, but the wedding was becoming more about the family and less about Toula. That is a perfect moment when Toula should have confronted her family, or at least did it without Ian there so it is not that awkward. Another point she should have confronted her family is when her mother said they invited the whole family to meet Ian's parents. That is way too much for any person to handle in the first time meeting your daughter-in-law's family. While there is one point when Toula's father says that Ian's parents looked at them like they were from a zoo, it was in the movie for the sole purpose of Toula giving in to her family's crazy ways. It had no impact on the family as a whole and neither parents tried to meet the other parents half-way. If Toula's parents tried to compromise and Ian's parents still looked at them funny, then that line is warranted. But that didn't happen. Nothing really changed or evolved. The wedding was less about what Toula wanted and more about what her family wanted. If the movie wasn't focused on the crazy family, then I would give the movie a better rating. However, that is the point of the film and thus I give the movie 5/10. "},{"Title":"Sweet Romantic Comedy","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is narrated by Toula Portokalos. She says that all Greek women are expected to marry a Greek man, to have Greek children and to feed everyone until the day she dies. However at the age of 30, still single and working at the family restaurant she feels that she is the only woman in her family who has failed at being a typical Greek girl. One day while at the restaurant, Toula meets Ian Miller a non Greek school teacher and is mesmerized by him. She then decides to go to college. Although her father Gus does not initially approve of her seeking a career, he eventually allows her to take computer classes at a local community college. While going to college Toula gains more confidence. She changes her frumpy appearance and gives herself a makeover. She starts to work at a travel agency, where she meets Ian again. They start dating and eventually fall in love. When Gus finds out Toula is dating a non Greek he is outraged and forbids them from seeing each other. However they continue to see each other in secret and eventually Ian proposes to Toula. Toula's family is then force to accept Ian. The audience sees a clash of cultures as Ian and his family becomes engulfed in Toula's Greek culture as the wedding date draws closer. The director does a good job of teaching the audience about Greek culture while adding a nice comedic element to the film. The film is a sweet romantic comedy that anyone who has a crazy family will be able to enjoy and relate to this film. "},{"Title":"****","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wonderful film depicting strong family and ethnic ties. Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan are terrific as the parents of a 30 year old daughter, unmarried and looking as if she shall settle into a grim spinsterhood.Along comes an American teacher and love blossoms in record time and the two prepare for marriage.The film is a living testament to the fact then when you marry, you also marry the family. There is quite a lot of work to do to get the two very different families to get and like one another.Acceptance of others insofar as their culture and ethic makeup build the foundation for a very amusing, heartfelt and enjoyable watch. "},{"Title":"Use Windex.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) Dir Joel Zwick / Cast Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Michael Constantine, Lainie Kazan, Andrea Martin Wonderful comedy about culture and acceptance. Written by and starring Nia Vardalos as a waitress at her family restaurant. She explains the weird environment for which she was raised. Her family is Greek and she is pressured by her father to marry into Greek and have children. Enter John Corbett who takes notice of her and romances blooms. He isn't Greek therefore the family is unsettled. Although structured like a sitcom the screenwriter has fun with the culture theme while director Joel Zwick times the humour perfectly. With that said, the family portrayed here is comically exaggerated yet not without realistic feeling. Vardalos is hilarious as she struggles to understand her family. This is a great lead performance that showcases great potential for future projects. Corbett makes a great foil, which leads to a hilarious meeting between both sets of parents. Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan play the parents who are driven by tradition but hilariously devastated at the thought of their daughter breaking it by marrying outside it. Andrea Martin makes a worthy comic turn as an aunt. Despite its sitcom elements and an ending that is predicted long before it gets there, it is still a great comedy about family, tradition and a pig roast in the front yard. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"The role of father of the bride","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have watched this film countless times & never tire of it. Although the entire cast does admirably well, for me Michael Constantine steals the film, hands down. How he was not at least recommended for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor is beyond my comprehension. He was brilliant! The frustration he was feeling, something I never felt when my children chose their partners, although sympathetic, was self inflicted. I was always in disagreement with Tevye, when he sang  Tradition,  in  Fiddler On The Roof.  To me tradition, in any religion or culture, is one of the greatest pitfalls to progress. When Gibran wrote in  The Prophet  that children are not ours, instead  they come through us,  I was in complete accord with his way of thinking. When Gus finally came around & welcomed Ian Miller to the extended family, that was when I said to myself,  It's about time.  Had I been in Ian's position, I would not have been so patient & understanding. To his credit, the dunking he got in the baby pool was more than I would have agreed to, even though I loved Tula almost as much as he did. "}{"Title":"Opa","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A story of a modern day Cinderella, in My Big Fat Greek Wedding, Toula seeks to find her prince charming. Toula is a frumpy Greek who is seeking a change from her life as her family seeks to do something before she becomes an old maid. A beautiful story of the immigrant experience and the acceptance of a new land when celebrating the old one. This heart warming take makes you appreciate all that is Greek and how love is possible if you are willing to open your heart and family. Some very memorable lines in this movie and cute the way the family joins at the end. The crazy Greeks and the calm white folks. Celebrate America's beauty and the path toward happily ever after. My Big Fat Greek wedding is a classic and joy. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever!","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is the funniest movie ever! This film never gets old. I laugh every time I watch it. I like how unlike a lot of modern comedies from today, there is no slapstick humor. I think its funny how the father brags about Greek culture. I thought it was hilarious when Ian Miller got beaten up by an old lady. I also thought it was funny when Tula 1st saw Ian she got distracted & ended pouring the coffee in the wrong cup. Another funny scene was when Maria put a flower in the bunt. My favorite quote in this movie was when Voula said What do you mean he don't eat no meat? Then there was an awkward silence. Then she said Oh that's OK, that's OK, I make lamb. I think its funny how boring Ian's parents are. Here is a fun fact, the actress that played Tulu, Nia Vardalos, married a Greek in real life & this movie is based on she married a non-Greek. All in all it is a timeless movie that never gets old! "},{"Title":"these people could actually exist","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was such a lovely movie. It felt so real,that these people could actually exist. There was no real big drama and that was refreshing. I could relate a bit to Toula,feeling why have I yet to get married,wanting to go back to school. It was nice to see the family embracing their heritage. So many films have just the opposite. At the end of the film Toula says that while they may be loud and crazy they are her family and they will always be there for her. That is the heart of the film. It is also one of the most romantic clean films out there. It's a film you can watch with your family without it being awkward. The one sex scene is very mild. This movie has so much heart. "},{"Title":"Try Nothing like the Holidays instead","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The purpose of My Big Fat Greek Wedding is laudable. Paint a loving, funny and moving picture of the Greek-American subculture that people can relate with. Alas it almost completely fails. The characters all are flat and uninteresting. Within five minutes you know how the story develops and how it ends. The cultural clash (when the parents meet) isn't a clash as everybody behaves like idiots. The jokes, with one or two exceptions, aren't funny. The scenes that are meant to move you are emotionally void. If you want to know how this genre should be done try Nothing Like the Holidays, which makes you want to be a Puerto Rican (at least as long as the movies lasts). "},{"Title":"My life on the big screen","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now, I'm Italian and even I could relate to this Unorthodox Greek family. It's such a clever, yet simply way, of depicting the stereotypes of an overbearing, operatic, hysterical and out-of-this world Greek family.The film centers on Toula Portokalos played by authentic Greek American actress Nia Vardalos &#x96; who also wrote the script &#x96; who is unmarried Greek woman aged 30. The ultimate sin. The early stages focus on Toula's inability to fit in and on top of all that she falls in love with the most Greek-less white, middle-class man you can find in America. To the dismay of her father who fails to comprehend his Little Toula stepping out of the family tradition and marrying someone so alien to 'everything Greek'.Although the film's script is genius and often cringe-worthy at the funniest of times, it's nonetheless probably influenced from Vardalos' family experiences; it's so real, believable and incredibly funny. The script itself was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay despite being adapted from another medium &#x96; Vardalos' family. Furthermore, her Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress is thoroughly deserved. She's absolutely hilarious in this picture; her freakish stares to her awkward mannerisms are just some of her goofs that makes each and every one of us relate to this self-proclaimed 'ugly duckling'.Although this is a criticism - it really isn't meant to have any negative or harsh intention &#x96; but the film trying to find a balance between comedy and drama came was simply not needed. The film is what it is; a tongue and cheek family comedy. The low position of women &#x96; even by 2002 &#x96; is pushed down our throats during the earlier scenes of the movie Greek woman should marry Greek men, produce Greek babies, and make Greek food&#x85; &#x96; yes, we get it, and the spiral of feminism seems to be force-fed upon us to make us understand that this isn't just a silly little comedy, but one based on the true hardships of women in a completely different culture. Sorry but this film is ENTIRELY based on comedic value &#x96; and that's why I love it &#x96; forget the struggles and the drama that is disjointedly injected into this picture to give it some kind of meaning, I'm only watching it because of the genius depiction of the 'crazy Greek family'! "},{"Title":"This is my life!!","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A superb example of Greek life, full of family, love and laughter!!! Brings Greek families together and proud to be Greek sometimes lol, a bit over the top sometimes but most of the time a true account of Greek life !!The stereotypical Greek family, Father is the head of the house, the mother is a go between, the over protective brother (me), and crazy nan, and so much family you forget most !!And best of all the stereotypical non Greek family who don't understand tradition and ways of the Greeks, but warm up to the fact once they get involve. "},{"Title":"Obsessed!","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm obsessed with this film. It's one of my favourite rom-coms of all time. It made me laugh all the way through! Nia has Greek blood in real life so the fact she wrote a film about Greek family life gives it that sense of authenticity. She obviously knows what she is talking about because she probably experienced it herself. I read that her hubby converter to marry her too which is like in the film. It's really interesting to watch a story about Greek family life from a part Greek person's perspective. The love story aspect builds up really well and keeps me smiling. It doesn't drag on. Everything is well timed, The actors were excellent!I can't stop laughing when I watch this. I love it! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Nicktastic!","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a good movie! It's not perfect, but it's a darn good feel good movie...and it's quite amazing what you can pull off with a budget of five million dollars. It challenges mixed-race relationships and has fun with it. I also enjoyed the story of what it takes to grow up in the US as a child of immigrants. It also touches on the subject of dating when you're older and doing so when you're not a knock-out. This is good stuff! The movie is fun, informative, playful, and full of laughs. The love story is believable too. It's cute and innocent. I'd recommend the movie on a slow Sunday afternoon. I watched it on DVD recently 10 years after it initially came out. Now I know what all the fuss was about! "},{"Title":"old story, new clothes","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" nice homage to family values, exploration of Greek stereotypes, a common love story in special clothes, charming Nia Vardalos and pieces from movies about Jews, Armenians or Polish in America as drops of flavor for this large bread. result - a tasty comedy with many spices. and attractive delight for any expectation to a romantic comedy. a show, slice of propaganda, show of joy, lesson about real important things, nothing complicated but with few wise advises, it is a brave exercise to give new formula for so old theme.a movie of characters more than gangs. and a love declaration to a way of life, in many occasions only small shadow. "},{"Title":"As Exaggerated as it is True!","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can see how the appeal of this movie might wane for some, with much of the comedy about clashing cultures and large-scale sociology than any personal conflicts. The writing being this film's strong point, anyone missing out on the culture clash will miss out on a lot the film has to offer. Everything on screen (as any foreign-family-American can attest) is absolutely true!A Greek woman meets a great guy, but that's not the point. It's about the family. Stereotyped or not, what we get are a lot of loud cousins who eat meat that try to invite the toast family with food. A lot of food. A LOT of lamb, and a LOT of food. Food. The family owns a restaurant, so there's always food. And it's about family reunions and a wedding, so, more food. Oh, and it's about Greeks, so FOOD FOOD FOOD!Take any scene, any quote from this movie, reference it to any Greek person alive, and they will laugh and respond with the rest of the script. That is the point of this film. It's not an epic fantasy about a princess and a dragon and an army of knights, nor is it an action thriller. It's about food, and Greeks and food. For many of us, it's a film called life. It might not be your life, but it is for us! And you know what? Our life is funny! "}{"Title":"Endearing chick flick, but beware the lurking stereotypes!","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie because more than one friend told me it was pretty good&#x85;then, too late, I remembered that all of those friends were female. To be fair, the film is endearing, it's sometimes funny, and Vardalos has a Tina Fey-like quality about her&#x96;which I find attractive, although I'd much rather date Fey&#x85;especially if she's dressed up like Sarah Palin&#x85;and if she wasn't married&#x85;but I digress&#x85;. Also, Lainie Kazan is convincing as the eccentric, confident, loving, encouraging mother (although significantly more tame than in her You Don't Mess with the Zohan role). Plus, my good friend and Fraternity brother married a Greek woman (who he met while stationed in Greece; they had a Greek Orthodox wedding and everything!), and it was pretty cool seeing the movie reference the Greek cultural points that she taught me, like the toasts.On the other hand, this movie unfortunately follows that way-to-common formula of ethnic girl who is embarrassed of her wild-and-crazy stereotypical family is swept off her feet by polite white boy from also-stereotypically uptight, rich family, and fireworks fly as the two families drive each other crazy while the couple struggles to ensure that their love prevails. In that sense, the film is not very creative plug Greek stereotypes, language, sayings, and architecture into a Romeo-and-Juliet story, and you've got a movie that a bunch of Greeks (or people who are interested in Greek culture) will go see, because they're under-represented in movies, but then half of them will realize, too late, that the film is potentially reinforcing some dangerous stereotypes (granted, Vardalos wrote the screenplay, but stereotypes perpetuated by members of the same group aren't necessarily less dangerous).In any case, cynicism aside, this movie is a cutesy romantic comedy&#x85; definitely a chick flick. If you are a woman who likes that sort of movie, you may enjoy this one, and it may be worth your time to sit down and watch it (although I wouldn't call it a must-see&#x85;maybe unless you're Greek, too). If you're a dude, pass on this one if you have a choice, but it's not exactly torture if you're forced to watch it, either. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My big fat Greek wedding is a simple movie woven with comedy and romantic moments. all the story is based on difficulties that can occur between a Greek woman dating a Xeno. i would recommend this film as a perfect one to be watched with your family on a Saturday night with popcorn and soda. while watching you will see some beautiful traditions. you will also notice how Greeks keep and follow their own rules. i think the climax of this movie is the moment when Toula's father forbade her from dating a non-Greek. although there where a lot of interesting and hilarious moments in the movie, my favourite part was before the celebration, when Toula's grandmother came and gave her a wedding present a box with some old photos and a flower crown. i suppose, it was a family heritage that was very precious. I can say with no doubts, that Portokalas is one of the funniest family, especially Toula's father. i like the way how he treats everything with Windex. moreover, i like how easily he can come up with a Greek root for every word. i admire Ian's strength, because every time Toula wanted to skulk off he was the one to support and to help her pass through hard time. i think it was hard for him to find a way to get used to his girlfriend's big family. this romantic story finishes with a happy ending, when Toula and Ian's child goes to a Greek school. this movie taught me that even if we are different and we belong different backgrounds, in the end we are all the same. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming, sharply-observed comedy about differences","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film captures poignantly and hilariously the tensions in preparing for a wedding, in finding one's place between two cultures, and in being on the receiving end of pressure about marrying. It's the story of Toula Portakalos (Nia Vardalos) who is 30 and for whom her father Gus (Michael Constantine) has all but given up hope of marrying. One day while working at her father's Greek restaurant, she is waiting on handsome Ian Miller (John Corbett) and is so transfixed she makes a fool of herself and botches his order. She does not indicate her interest at the time because she is so embarrassed, but later on, fortuitously for her, he sees her working again. She's now working as a travel agent in an effort to be assertive and take control of her life and both fall in love almost immediately. This does lead to some clashes between Toula and Gus however because Ian is not Greek.The film hilariously depicts reservations of an older generation about their offspring marrying someone from another background. I've heard from several friends who married folks from different backgrounds that this movie reflected their experiences. I saw this movie when it came out and it was very funny then. It has aged well.Vardalos is a gifted and empathetic writer. She not only sees the funny side of things, but also captures the humor in the pain of an intelligent woman who is unmarried and working as a waitress. In writing for herself, Vardalos is not afraid to look silly which makes this film funnier and shows her fearlessness. She narrates the film and it is done in a deadpan, I'm-so-over-this tone which is wise in that it does not undercut the hilarity which naturally comes from the film.She really deserves a lot of the credit for this. It is a shame she hasn't enjoyed more success since because of her clearly agile comic mind. The dry WASPiness of her in-laws in the film (Fiona Reid and Bruce May) contrast wonderfully with the extroversion and earthiness of her family. Her aunt Voula is played fantastically by SCTV's Andrea Martin and her mother, masterfully manipulating her father and encouraging her daughter is played by Lainie Kazan. Her father Gus is played by Michael Constantine. Gus is a wonderfully stereotypical Greek father &#x96; loving but very old-fashioned and sexist, all bark and no bite. Joey Fatone distinguishes himself as one of Toula's mischievous cousins, and her macho brother Nick (Louis Mandylor) is encouraged by his sister's rebellion to plot his own non-traditional path. John Corbett is very good as an understanding, open-minded, passionate man who loves Toula regardless of the eccentricities of her family.Ultimately, this is a wonderfully life-affirming and family-centric film. It will make you laugh at Gus' traditionalism and at the misunderstandings which happen between families of different backgrounds. It is a wonderfully written and acted film. Opa! "},{"Title":"Something to Celebrate!","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a refreshing movie! The contrast between the WASP lifestyle and the Greek was very well done. I agree that most of us WASPs lead boring lives; certainly compared to the cultures that celebrate togetherness. To the Greeks, apparently, cohesion is more important than conformity. It fascinated me that, although these Greek characters were so connected,they were so distinctively unique. Ian was lost in this exuberance, but in love enough to be open to it; and to always fall for Nico's verbal jokes. Ian and Toula were different culturally, but their essence was the same; they were gentle people awash in worlds of too much isolation from feelings and too overwhelming in feelings. They both felt themselves odd balls in those worlds, and were magnetized to one another instantly. Of course, the most hilarious scene was when Ian tried to flirt outside Toula's office window and got an old lady ass kicking for his trouble. That, being followed by the scene where, in her entrancement with her new found soul mate, Toula flattens herself backwards! Those touches in the film that remind us of our own silly experiences are what made this movie so great for me. I loved the warmth of a culture so very different from my own; the realistic opposition that the father shows; the astonishment, but acceptance, by the toast parents of the groom.One of my favorite escape films. "},{"Title":"My big fat Greek wedding","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The Big Fat Greek Wedding I have seen many movies in the past years, some were wonderful and some were terrible. My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the best comedies I have seen in a long time. Actually weddings is not unique theme, but I believe that planning a wedding or have experiences with family has too much influence in our lives.Nia Vardaros wrote the script and acted as Toula, a 30 year old Greek woman, who apparently doesn't want to marry. But she suddenly meets Ian (John Corbett) and falls in love with him. Toula's traditional Greek father (Michael Constantine) is very conservative. This movie follows Toula when she tries to overcome her family's hesitance about the marriage. Only-child Ian, raised by quiet and his parents (Bruce Gray and Fiona Reid), tries to adjust to become a part of this big, funny Greek family.All Greek women are expected to go to Greek school, find a good Greek man, marry him and have lots of Greek babies. These procedures in this movie give us humor in almost two hours. This couple come from completely different backgrounds have to deal with all the pressures, and finally they get to happy marriage.This movie has very heartwarming and emotional scenes in it even though it's a comic movie. Most of the characters are very well done and very believable. However, I think that the roles of the Grooms Mother and Father are a little bit flat and simple. This movie will delight you and put a big smile on your face. I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good laugh. "},{"Title":"One woman's rocky road to the altar gets played for laughs in this comedy.","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is nothing subtle or original about this film, but it is well-intentioned and cute. The large family of an outspoken Greek-American woman (Nia Vardalos) is devastated when she announces she is to wed a non-Greek.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is an agreeable comedy that grew from small beginnings to become a huge hit through its word-of-mouth reputation. Yet it is devoid of any surprise, suspense, or a sense that anything is at stake. It was the fifth highest grossing movie of 2002 in the USA, and the highest-grossing romantic comedy in history. The film inspired the brief 2003 TV series My Big Fat Greek Life, with most of the major characters played by the same actors. "},{"Title":"Bravo, xriso mou!","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nia Vardalos captures the essence of Greek-Americans in her well-scripted, My Big Fat Greek Wedding. What Greek child growing up didn't hear from his/her parents that the Greeks invented EVERYTHING? We know that they didn't, but when Vardalos brings back that memory, she touches our funny bones and our hearts, and reminds us that our Greek parents are proud of their heritage and roots.The story, about a Greek girl, Toula (Vardalos) who falls in love with a non-Greek (John Corbett), causing her father much Greek agita, is a light-hearted and touching look into what makes Greeks, Greeks. Vardalos then weaves Greek-American values, customs, family, ethnic pride, religion, education, personal honor, the Greek-American work ethic, and hospitality into her story; making MBFGW a hoot for Greeks, because we can relate, and non-Greeks feeling like strangers. So, my advice to you outsiders is to watch MBFGW like you're a fly on the wall. Observe, learn, and laugh if you get it. If you don't, pretend you're a guest at a Greek's house. Guests are continually urged to take second helpings. (Watch it again.) Go ahead, take in the religious and secular life of a Greek family, and rest assured that Nia knows that most Greek Americans hold religion and family in the highest esteem. Bravo, xriso mou! Favorite line (because it's a popular old Greek folk saying and it's so true in Greek marriages) The husband is the head, but the wife is the neck that decides which way the head will turn!Favorite actors Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan are the rigani (wild oregano from Greece), adding just the right flavoring, in just the right quantities, throughout, as Toula's parents.Nia? Nia has my utmost respect! "},{"Title":"The Windex Principle","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It may be capricious to point, in a commentary, to the more abstract problems that underlie a comedy, but since so many texts have already thoroughly evaluated the humorist part of My Big Fat Greek Wedding, let me restrict myself to what I call the Windex Principle.Like many immigrants whose names are difficult to pronounce for Americans, Kosta has transformed his name to Gus. However, this did not hold him back from giving his daughter a distinctive Greek first name Toula, from Photoula the enlightened one (like Phot- in Photo). His house is a copy of the Parthenon temple, the garden is decorated by rebuilt antique statues, and on the house there is the Greek state flag, besides the Stars and Stripes. Mr. Portokalos never adjusted to his guest land. He speaks the American language, but with the characteristic Greek interferences, like this name is come from .... Strangely enough, his restaurant's name is called Dancing Zorba's, which is mistaken insofar as the name of the Greek national hero is Alexis Zorbas (Tsormpás) and not Zorba.For Kosta, there are two groups of people the Greeks and the ones who would like to be Greeks. According to his very personal etymology, all words derive from Greek, and since Greece is (for him) the cradle of civilization, even the Japanese word Kimono does not make an exception. The only astonishing fact is that he speaks in his house English, apart from cursing. He has also conserved his patriarch ideas about women. It is out of question for him that his daughter marries a Greek and not a Xeno(s) (foreigner). When she meets the average American elementary school teacher Ian Miller, the hell breaks loose. And at last at this point, the movie shows that it is much more than very good entertainment. Ian cannot understand why Toula's family is so different. For him, there are only different backgrounds. As a citizen of a state where there is practically the same American culture between Long Island and Los Angeles, between Montana and Mississippi, her talking makes no sense. He says that everybody has weird families, and with that idea his horizon ends. On the other side, Kosta is sitting sleepless crying on his sofa because he interprets Toula's acquaintance as a personal attack. For Ian, speaking a foreign language is more or less a sign of non-adaption to a guest land (as even having an accent is), for Kosta his whole individuality depends on the different language Greek is who speaks Greek. Ian cannot understand that in Europe you have to change the language when you just travel for 30 minutes by airplane, that another culture, people with other behavior and with quite different expectations await you when you leave your plane. America is widely homogeneous, Europe isn't. That being different is a reason for being proud and that this pride can sometimes manifest as particularism, is unknown to him - and if we see his parents and how he grew up, we are not astonished.This movie, taken seriously and not only as a nice comedy, could have gigantic implications for example that American school kinds should be forced to learn at least one foreign language and that European history (and not only history of World War II) should be thought in schools like American history is taught in the schools of many European states. Perhaps this would help people like Kosta-Gus to integrate, if they would sense that there is at least a basic understanding of their differentness. As long as this has not changed, Gus' universal use of Windex stays as a symbol for his relations to his guest-land. "},{"Title":"Greek Feast","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was the surprise hit of 2002 and I had been postponing to watch it up until yesterday when I finally saw it. Normally when a movie is hyped, I tend to lose interest because it usually disappoints. But, that wasn't the case with 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' which turned out to be quite a fun flick. Nia Vardalos is a talented writer. The story might not reek of originality but the way she presents this wacky Greek family and all the stereotypes is hilarious. Moreover her intentions seem sincere and I get the feeling she wrote it to have fun and to celebrate her Greek background. She's also a wonderful comedic actress. But credit also must be given to Michael Constantine, Lainie Kazan, Louis Mandylor and Andrea Martin who make the Portokalos very believable and enjoyable to watch. John Corbett is good as the love interest who embraces Toula... and her family without hesitation. Joel Zwick does a great job fitting it all together. I liked the (very Greek) background score. 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' was quite a feel good 'feast'. The story may not be anything new but the Greekness makes up for that. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Nostalgia for Me!","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I grew up in the Greater Newark, NJ suburbs. We had a large Greek Orthodox Church called St. Helen and Contantine. My high school was around 3% Greek which was a fairly sizable population as this was a large high school. Some lived in my neighborhood and I had the opportunity to befriend several Greek boys and girls. Those on my street, I got to know the parents as well. One particular family so reminded me of this family. The dialogs on philosophies of life, the names, the styles, and oh, the most wonderful cooking and baking this side of creation. I patronized many of our Greek diners, around the State, and got to know some more families. Wonderfully warm people who made even non-Greeks feel welcome and at home. Certainly a history and a culture to be very proud of. I especially like their cuisine which seems to cross certain Italian foods with a taste of Middle Eastern foods. Their strong family ties and proud heritage reminded me of the many Italians and Jews I grew up with in the area. The many comments made and Toula's description of herself and her family was right on the money. Michael Contantine did a great job of probably imitating his folks only he seemed quite old to have children so young as he is around 75 in this movie. I thought Lanie Kazan was wonderful and looked very Greek as her features from being Spanish and Russian-Jewish combined for that Mediterranean look. "}{"Title":"One of the TOP TEN MAKEOVER movies...","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MBFGW is one of the Best Makeover Movies of our times. BTW, I am a huge fan of makeover films. I love watching before and after type stuff in movies, TV shows...just about anything. In fact, I am kinda addicted to that stuff and seek it out. I even love shows like The Swan and Dr. 90210. My friends and I love Kim Kardashian (and NEVER miss KUWTK) because of how beautiful she is (even if she has never really actually done anything in movies). But she looks like what most of us aspire to, but don't...which BTW, DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE ARE UNHAPPY AT ALL. We just appreciate beautiful looking people like some others appreciate beautiful art or beautiful scenery. With that in mind, my friends and I have compiled a list of 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES of recent times (after 1995). And here they are (in random order) 1) CLUELESS 2) PRETTY WOMAN 3) THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA 4) JOHN TUCKER MUST DIE 5) MAID IN MANHATTAN 6) MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING 7) SHE'S ALL THAT 8) MISS CONGENIALITY 9) MEAN GIRLS 10) AMERICANIZING SHELLEY.Although, personally...CLUELESS is #1 and all the others are #2.I am also putting together a different list of 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES of all times (prioe to 1995). Please do post me a message voting for your 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES prior to 1995. And yes, I SO TOTALLY recommend this film (if you haven't already watched it)...whether you like makeover movies or not. "},{"Title":"A Big Fat Great Surprise!","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 2002 was a year of action blockbuster movies that really didn't satisfy a lot of people. It was a dead year where the majority of blockbuster films were panned by critics despite the fact that people spent more money to see Spider-Man than any other film before Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets along with The Lord of the Rings The Two Towers came along to make epic history. My Big Fat Greek Wedding arrived in late summer of 2002 and became a small surprise to a lot of people where they didn't expect a new romantic movie to enchant their lives.Based on her one woman play, Nia Vardalos plays Toula Portokalos, a woman of Greek heritage at age 30 who has no ambitions of getting married, having kids or following the rules of all Greek women. She's the ugly duckling in her family while her sisters and other relatives are pretty and have their own families. Her father, Gus (Michael Constantine), is the head household in which like all male paterfamilias (head male father), everything goes by him or it's the highway. Toula's mother, Maria (Lainie Kazan), is understanding and wants her daughter to be happy without any interference.Everything changes when Toula sees Ian Miller (John Corbett of Sex and the City) at her restaurant where fate changes her decision on how she wants to live. No longer will she be the quiet ugly duckling with no sense of action, but decides upon herself to go against her father's back by going back to school and working at her aunt's airline travel before seeing Ian coming back in her life where they meet and date.Toula breaks the rules since part of those rules involve all Greek women marrying Greek men. She goes on a couple of dates with Ian behind her family's back before the news is broken.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is not only a film of romance but a film of culture shock where many of the audience members will find some of the events quite a surprise.If I had one word to describe this film Opa! "},{"Title":"Fun and universal","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In some respect, first generation immigrants are the same everywhere loud, brash, nostalgically sentimental, attaching great importance to family and community; and for reasons that it doesn't exactly take a degree in sociology to fathom. Then the second, more assimilated generation grows up, and naturally, there are conflicts. This subject has been often addressed in the movies, but rarely with more brio than in 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding', a low-budget film which proved a surprise hit, probably because it's almost impossible to dislike. There's not much plot, but a lot of shrewdly humorous moments, and while it relies on clichés, it also emits a feeling of truthfulness. For example, the wedding speech is funny in the way that real wedding speeches are funny, because it combines a modicum of humour with an unprofessional delivery that almost kills the joke but which actually makes it more funny. And it's a pleasant surprise to see a romantic comedy featuring ordinary looking people. In conclusion it's great fun, and real to boot; it deserves its success. "},{"Title":"this is sparta?","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A very likable little movie, leaves one smiling throughout (for the most part) and creates characters and situations we care about. It's an interesting setting for the usual romantic comedy stuff, because Greeks in America really are a world unto themselves, and their lives and communities, and all the delightful members of these wonderful families, are too rarely depicted in major films- even this wasn't a major film but became one by good word of mouth. So I was glad to see these people and this family in a movie. Less successful are Ian's parents, who I thought were treated unfairly- their scenes were so unpleasant they nearly stopped the movie cold- and Ian himself was a cipher, so perhaps Nia Vardalos has trouble writing non-Greeks. Still, she wrote a very heartfelt and charming movie about an experience neglected by movies generally, so it's hard to fault her too much. Film is rarely so corny as it might have been, another tribute to Vardalos. Her voice-over narration didn't work, however- it played like a bad stand-up act on the subject- and I was glad it wasn't in much of the movie. Overall, it's a good-natured film, a tried-and-true form but with a novel and interesting setting and cast of characters, and made with great love. You can see why people would take to it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic comedy!","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My big fat Greek wedding is a hilarious comedy which portraits the life of a typical Greek family in Chicago and how 30-year-old Toula is trying to persuade her family to accept the American guy whom she wants to marry.I'm Greek and I really enjoyed the whole thing because it was very similar to all the Greek families.The truth is that some things are a bit exaggerated.For instance,the fact that all Greeks eat so much food and want to have lots of babies,etc.But I believe that most of the Greeks who saw the movie are very proud of it because it's such an authentic and fun film.I recommend it to everyone who wants to laugh till they cry and learn something about this weird civilization-the Greeks! "},{"Title":"Greeks' existence in Hollywood","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A neat, funny and very entertaining story with a good story-line and likable characters. For the Greek people, it can be said that this movie is full of stereotypes and modern Greek people are not so much bound with the limitations of family traditions, but I'm sure this well-told story and great casting will make the audience forget the possible implications of whether it truly reflects the Greek people or not, and enjoy it to the full! After all, MBFGW has become something bigger than itself for the Greek people in the last years It's one of the most prominent examples of Greeks' existence in Hollywood any Greek in the movie business refer it one way or another. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable and engaging","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Everyone heard of this movie soon after it was released. Nia Vardalas has to be one of Hollywood's all-time success stories for this venture -- made on a shoestring for $5,000,000, and grossing about a quarter-billion! I had heard of it, with everybody else, but was traveling a lot when originally in theaters. So I didn't see it first-run, and for some reason, had never caught it otherwise, until last night.In these types of comedies, with the story of the contrasting backgrounds/lifestyles/families of the principals, even the good one usually have some aspects which can detract some from the events some parts which drag; one or more characters who are over-the-top, unfunny or outright annoying; or some plot lines or jokes which are overdone and/or repeated tediously; etc.This film has none of this -- it is a total pleasure to watch from beginning to end Vardalas and John Corbett as the lead couple from diverse families; Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan as her parents; all the supporting cast, including Andrea Martin as her aunt, the actors portraying Corbett's parents --- and everyone else --- all seem perfect to their roles, give engaging performances, and make this film a total joy to view.I can't imagine anyone who could watch this presentation without enjoying to the maximum, and feeling great for having experienced it. "},{"Title":"Standard boy meets girl film concept that just works like magic somehow","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As in the film, my wife is from a distinct ethnic heritage while I am not. Maybe that's part of it-- but even if that were not true, I think I'd relate to this film on a great many levels. Yes, some moments are a little silly, but if you've ever been around a large close family with lots of relatives that's even remotely similar to the Greek family in this film, you probably already get it as far as much of this film goes.I'm guessing those who don't like this film probably find it unrealistic or unbelievable because they don't know how close to reality this film hits for some. Knowing things similar to those in the film really happen knock this from a 7 or an 8 up to about a 9.8 or 9.9...This movie is a treat to watch over and again and I always feel better after I see it than before it started. Watch it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was sort of duped into watching this chick flick, but it actually wasn't as painful as i thought it would be. I thought it was semi-decent. The story was pretty good. I really liked the big family. I think having a crazy family is something that everyone can relate to. I know my family is certainly nuts. I like big families that have a strong heritage they are always a lot of fun. I thought the story was believable and the acting was good. I thought they were really over the top with all the Greek flag stuff and the statues, but then again I was at a Greek festival and the people seemed very proud! I cracked up at the baptism scene adults getting baptized always seems a bit strange to me. I think all and all it was an alright movie if it's ever on television I'd probably watch it again. "},{"Title":"Light as air and very likable","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This slight little movie, (not a great deal happens in it), has nevertheless considerable charm. It's about an ugly duckling who becomes a swan and gets herself a handsome WASP prince into the bargain and it has, at its very large heart, a lovely comedienne called Nia Vardalos who not only stars but adapted the film from her own seemingly autobiographical one-woman show. It's the kind of film you find yourself constantly smiling through and when you laugh out loud it's at gags that aren't really gags at all but just little bits of business that happen to be funny.Vardalos and her director, Joel Zwick, are canny enough not to over-egg the pudding. They keep it light and it rises almost in spite of itself. It ought not to work, (I mean, this kind of fairy-tale went out with the Ark, right?), yet it does despite Vardalos' inexperience in structuring scenes dramatically, (the material just seems to evolve naturally), and Zwick's somewhat obvious approach to it.As the object of Vardalos' affections, John Corbett has very little to do except look handsome although thankfully he plays down the cuteness factor and he has an easy-going likability while Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan are marvellous as Vardalos' OTT Greek parents. They both manage to find the beating heart of the couple inside what are basically caricatured roles. In fact the whole cast rise to the occasion; there isn't a dud performance in sight. "}{"Title":"A harmless, cute, little movie","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a very pleasant movie. Harmless, gentle and unpretentious. Adorable, even. It didn't make any significant impact on me, in a few months I will probably only vaguely remember it, but it made for a very enjoyable evening.I don't like romantic comedies, I want to make it clear. Unless they are truly funny and the characters have actual personalities, which, in translation, means that British romantic comedies are mostly OK. The fact, that they have pretty accents there, helps a lot, too. 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is not a typical American romantic comedy (it was written by a Greek woman, after all). Thank God, because otherwise it would be 100 plus minutes of pain.Let's recap a plot of a typical American romantic comedy. A man and a woman meet, usually under some extraordinary circumstances. The sparks fly. They can't really fight off the unexpected (*snort* attraction towards one another, however hard they try. Their so far empty lives suddenly are filled with joy, happiness and general beauty, but they are not aware yet of the source of this wondrous transformation. Then a tragic misunderstanding / a dramatic turn of fate takes place. They break up / are torn apart. The joy, happiness and general beauty disappear without giving any notice. The man and the woman wallow in misery. Then the enlightenment strikes. They are in love! They can't live without his/her beloved! They have to get them back! After overcoming a lot of obstacles on the way, they finally meet again. The misunderstandings are understood / Lady Fortune turns out not to be such a bitch after all. A passionate PG-rated kiss occurs. They live happily ever after.In 'Big Fat Greek Wedding' a man and a woman meet, the sparks fly. They fall in love with each other and, after some time, decide to get married. Then... they get married. They live happily ever after. The End.That's usually how these thing work. No great tragedies, no needless drama. Just an ordinary love story.Actually, the romantic plot doesn't even play the main role here. It's more of a catalyst. The first half of the movie, when the love in question takes shape, is pretty uninteresting and not so funny. It just introduces the players, establishes the setting for the main event. The main event being an exhilarating spectacle of cultural eccentricities.Toula and Ian love each other, deeply, unreservedly and happily. We are glad for them, since they are both very likable. Then we stop paying attention to them. There's something much more exciting to watch. Namely, how Toula's extremely weird, but lovable, family reacts to their unanticipated togetherness. They strongly disapprove at first, but we don't really mind, because we know that they will cave soon. They do. Hostility suddenly turns into freakish enthusiasm, and hilarity ensues. The movie gains speed, colour and bite. Some scenes are simply fabulous the Easter party, Toula'a family welcoming Ian's parents for a dinner, pre-wedding frantic preparations. Priceless.The movie makes fun from cultural fanaticism and stereotypes, but in a very subtle and unoffensive way. It tells us about the importance of inter-cultural peaceful coexistence, but without preaching. All right, without unduly preaching. And it really makes you laugh out loud at times. That's more than enough for me. "},{"Title":"when ethnic people marry gentiles...","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As we all know from watching movies, gentiles are boring, while ethnic people are wacky and brazen (think Meet the Fockers). Of course, My Big Fat Greek Wedding teaches us that the Hellenes are louder and weirder than anyone. The story has Greek-American Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos) falling in love with WASP Ian Miller (John Corbett). Toula has an insanely giant family in which everyone is embarrassing, while Ian has a tiny family in which no one ever talks.Probably this movie's coolest aspect is the fact that it came out of nowhere and went on to become one of the top 50 grossing movies of all time (especially since it was released the same weekend as the apparently ridiculous Scorpion King). So, whether you're a good Greek, or an exeno who wishes that he was Greek, you're sure to love this movie and its soundtrack. Opa! "},{"Title":"Funny ,stereotypes Greeks","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is very funny. It stereotypes Greeks. There could have been a few more wedding scenes in it The Orthodox wedding service is a very beautiful one. I am Greek. Most greeks observe a lot of those customs. Some of them are exaggerated. It is set in Chicago. But it is filmed in Toronto. Until a few years ago, Chicago has about the second largest concentration of Greeks in the world outside of Greece except for New York. Verdallos is funny and so are most of the other characters. Some of the scenes you will have to be Greek to understand them. Many of the Characters are stereotypical of Greeks. The wedding scenes were accurate. I wish that they would have had some more Byzantine chants in the wedding and other church scenes. "},{"Title":"Great Cross Cultural Comedy","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you have ever lived in another country, or in a situation where 2 cultures are closely interacting you will probably enjoy this.The movie is good clean fun about what happens when people from differing cultures come together over something as important as marriage.My family and I have watched this movie countless times, but I can see how someone who has NOT had much cross cultural experience would miss a lot of the movie.Maybe a good mindset to go in would be to imagine your daughter marrying into a group that is your least favourite. She goes against all your convictions and hopes that she marry a good (fill in your cultural group) boy.The way Ian has to embrace Toula's culture is really the successful way to win a family's heart.Having lived in 4 countries with 3 different languages this movie struck such a chord with me that I would rate it one of the best I have seen in ages. "},{"Title":"The best independent film","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is probably the best independent film of all time. I enjoy the strong ties it has between all of the major characters and of the originality of the people. I really enjoyed seeing how each of the characters were not shy to say what was on their mind. It was also great the way the Greek Girl, also went after what she really wanted. This was marrying Ian, an American, although, at first her father did not want her to do this. Undoubtedly there are many qualities that every good movie has to have. This one certainly has them. Well Done to all of the people who helped make this movie. "},{"Title":"Unadulterated fun.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching Comedy Channel all day,laughter in movies is a tough sell. Laurel and Hardy, Charlie Chaplin were masters of Silent Film Comedy and when you see the old couple bringing a Bundt to a Simple family dinner and the mother of the bride (Laine Kazan does an Archie Bunker on them this reminiscent of the All in the Family.This is absolutely hilarious and it is funny when you least expect it. Then this old couple get drunk with an Ethnic liquorice mix when their already topsy turvy world (the son marrying a Greek-when the closest they came to an Ethnic was a Guantamalan secretary!) get tipsier-to me that is Mel Brooks type of comedy. Nia Vardalos who is a product of the Theatre and the Director together have some great chemistry to come up with a very poignant comedy. Laine Kazan is the best of the lot. I think the Screenplay was just perfect and the heartfelt scenes embellish the movie-like when the father gifts a house to the daughter-when the grandma brings the treasure chest to share some rumpled photos and memories to put the bride in the right perspective and mood- and after six years nothing has changed the little girl goes to a Greek school but she can marry anyone not just another Greek!. Very few movies you get an urge to see it again since you could't relish all the fun for the first time. I had fun at the movies after a long time. "},{"Title":"Undeniable Phenomenon","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've never seen My Big Fat Greek Wedding from beginning to end. In factI've only seen the beginning and the ending of this movie. I used towork at a small movie theater called The Skyland Arts Cinema inHendersonville, NC.  What I would to comment on is the affect that this film had on ouraudience. Most of our guests were senior citizens but for some reasonthis film brought more families than usual. Our theater made more moneythan it had seen in a long time.  It is our custom to stand at the exits and say good bye to our guests.People, young and old, would dance out of the theater to the music thatwas playing as the credits rolled. We even got a couple of reservationfor bridal showers. People would drive from as far away as Greenville,SC to see this movie. It just goes to show you that the best stories arestill the ones that have a sense of humor and m "},{"Title":"Better than the sit-com","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charmingly told tale of Toula, a frumpy Greek woman who meets Ian, the man of her dreams. The only problem is, he's not Greek, a detail that doesn't go over well with her tightly knit family. Along the way Toula's family learns to accept Ian; Ian learns to love the lust for life his new extended family possesses and Toula learns about herself. Based on a one-woman play, My Big Fat Greek Wedding is pretty standard stuff, but told with such wit that it is virtually impossible not to get swept along for the ride. Nia Vardalos as Toula anchors the whole film, while a supporting cast of colourful characters swirl around her. Of particular note are Michael Constantine as her father, (a man so proud of his heritage that he can trace any word back to its origins in Greek&#133; even the word kimono!) and Andrea Martin as crazy Aunt Voula, a loveable but overbearing relative who has an opinion about everything. Toronto residents will also enjoy playing `Spot the Locations' as much of the film was shot on The Danforth in the heart of the city's Greek village.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Maybe because I went through the same situation when I married a woman from another country.We had two weddings, one in the USA, one in her country.  Guess which one was more fun! "},{"Title":"A Funny Movie, and Nothing More","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was simply just an OK movie. Nothing that would be interesting to see again. The movie is a romance/comedy that makes you laugh here an there, but it failed to be anything more. But while the plot wasn't very original, the movie was still enjoyable...I guess.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is about a Greek women who devotes herself to making her appearance better in order to attract an American male. They hit it off and fall in love with each other, and the only problem that awaits them is how their parents react.I thought the acting was pretty good, I admired how Vardalos portrayed her Greek character. The writing was alright I guess, it didn't add much more to the movie, nothing that made it any better. I think some of the scenes in the movie could have been skipped so they could get back to the plot of the movie.Corbett seemed to add a little more humor to his character. I thought his character was pretty decent, and it was obvious that his character Ian wanted to become part of the family. I was also surprised to see Fatone in this movie, and also disappointed.So, while the writing and the acting was pretty good, it didn't really help the movie at all. It had a few funny jokes, nothing more. Perhaps if the plot was a bit different and it was more original, then maybe the movie would have been more enjoyable.** out of **** stars. An Okay movie. "}{"Title":"It's a Cinderella tale...Greek style!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this monster box office hit at the theater, it was an obvious crowd pleaser.  I went back and saw it a second time with some friends and I laughed just as much.  Finally, I bought a used copy of the DVD so I could watch it again at home.  What do I have to say about this movie?It's just plain fun.  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a Cinderella story of a mousy Greek girl who decides she wants to change things in her life.  And so she does.  The ugly duckling gets contacts, makeup, and new clothes.  She goes to college, changes jobs and gets a boyfriend.  One problem.  He's not Greek!  This definitely complicates things for Toula on the way to a new life.  This movie has  big comedy, tender family moments and a great cast.  My personal favorites were Toula's father (Michael Constantine) and mother (Lainie Kazan), although the movie belongs to its star Nia Vardalos and her movie beau, John Corbett.  The ensemble cast and the ring of truth in the story make it work.  It's definitely one of the top 10 movies of 2002 and a refreshing change from much of Hollywood's recent fare.  It may not be an Academy Award Winner or an attempt to be 100% authentic, but it is a fun movie to add to your collection.  I'd rate it 89/100.  It's better at the theater or on a big screen TV than on a small one because it's just a Big movie meant to be watched with a group.      "},{"Title":"A movie about life, love, and culture","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When i watched this movie i came into with an open mind. I had heard it was funny, but at the same time that it had lessons to teach about life, love and culture. i thought this movie was mediocre, but definatley worth watching. Even if romantice comedies arent your type of movie, this is still worth watching just because it has a lesson to teach, life isnt over no matter how old you are.  "},{"Title":"What a refreshing romantic movie!","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are movies that make you wonder why you waste the 2 hours sitting in a cinema, and of late these types seem to be in majority. But thankfully, there also come a few like My Big Fat Greek Wedding which leave you with a feeling of giddy happiness. I absolutely loved the film. The story was nice, funny and romantic. But what may have been the crucial difference was the new and fresh faces, all the actors were new to me and yet delivered great performances. I am sure i would not have been as much affected if Jennifer Lopez or Julia Roberts had starred. "},{"Title":"Funny stereotypes","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As in any other comedy, My Big Fat Greek Wedding depicts many stereotypes.  In this case, they are depicted of a Greek family living in America.  What makes this movie unique, though, is that it doesn't revolve around good-looking characters nor does it involve the Hollywood romance story, all which we have seen too often with Julia Roberts in.  The movie is about Toula(Nia Vardalos), a 30-year-old woman who seemingly can't get a boyfriend.  Her family has all given up hope on her of ever getting a significant other.  She works at the family's restaurant (Dancing Zorbas) as a waitress, because she has no purpose in life but to do such things.  In walks Ian Miller(John Corbett), a guy who Toula gets an instant sense of love at first sight feelings in her.The story focuses on the fact that Toula loves this new guy in her life and the fact that her dad has expectations of the Greek guy that she should marry.  There is some kind of warmth in this movie which you feel when you watch it.  The jokes are always fresh, though some are recycled and thrown at you later on in the film.As the title of the movie says it, this movie involves enormous feasts, wedding receptions, and families.  What makes this movie a success is the fact that there is tension not on the lover's part, but on the part of both sides of the two families.  One has an obvious Greek tradition, and the other is the typical Caucasian family in the United States.  But, like other romances, bonds are formed, and love surpasses all.There are points in the movie which are unbelievably funny such as how Toula's father, Gus(Michael Constantine) uses Windex to solve all his problems.  Gus also thinks that all words are derived from Greek, as in the scene where he tries to explain that the Japanese word Kimono came from the Greek word Kimona.  This is funnier than most romantic comedies out there, but with the warmth of a real-life love story.8/10 "},{"Title":"just so-so","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i had heard so many people tell me this movie was great/hilarious/awesome, etc.  However, i never got around to watching it in theaters or even renting it because i would have other movies that i was more interested in.  well i finally downloaded the divx version and sat down to watch it one night when i was bored.  well it was a good movie overall, has a decent plot and a nice ending.  however, i thought this was SUPPOSED to be a comedy, but there wasn't a single part that was funny.  there were some parts that were kinda silly that were perhaps meant to be funny (the repeated windex joke and greek root of every word joke), but they were barely funny.  so the fact that i watched this movie expecting it to be a comedy but getting nothing close to a comedy, made it rather disappointing.  however, this movie does have some touching moments which actually brought tears to my eyes.  so i can't say it was a bad movie, just a bad comedy.  also the actors weren't very engaging; i didn't feel attached to them in the least bit.  thus i give it 6/10.  not that bad, but there are way better comedies (and movies in general) other there. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent flick!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a Greek woman who falls in love with a non-Greek man. Her father goes nearly berserk because he thinks it is sacrilege to marry a non-Greek. There are many humorous scenes, most of them provided by her large, WEIRD family. The eventual acceptance of the non-Greek is a foregone conclusion (due to the very title of the film), but it is not easy! Overall, a well done film that took everyone by surprise! "},{"Title":"funnnny!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  anyone who is slagging this movie has no sense of humour.   maybe there are stereotypes.  but i was i not offended by it.  it is a romantic comedy people! take it for what it is.  it is not going to have any deep insights, or be Plato!  for what it is it was it was great and not sleepless in sealte  it made me and my two older sisters laugh!  anyone not enjoying it is either too frigid, or an embarassed ethnic greek!  gus was a little over the top, but every other character rang true.  anyone looking for deep insight in a romantic comedy has other issues!  good for Nia this movie is hilarious and better than most everything in its genre "},{"Title":"All you need is love","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first post-postmodern film? Where Kissing Jessica Stein needed Jessica to modernise to net her man, Nia Vardalos' Toula is already a 21st century girl who incorporates her family's culture into the life she already has.This attitude remains inplace throughout the film. The stereotypes and self-aware and the laughs come because you are laughing at the fun on screen, not the fools each group makes of the other. Central to this is John Corbett's boyfriend/fiancee to Toula, Ian. Corbett's well-judged performance is knowing but not clever; when - at a number of points - you think he might just bawl out his stiflingly white middle class (gee dear it ain't the fifties anymore!) parents... he doesn't. He, and we, know that what he's got is better than that which he had before. 'Before I met you I was bored, but now I've found myself' he tells Toula, and we believe him through the cliche.So all you need is love. I was a bit worried that the fluctuationless joy was a bit much, but the regular suggestive shadow of hereditary cultural bigotry keeps the sugar levels down. A trifle, but a brisk and subtle 6.5/10 one. "},{"Title":"The Movie about Apples and Oranges","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorMy Big Fat Greek Wedding is a warm-hearted film with characters that have a real life quality to them. Most of the humor comes from Nia Vardolas character who struggles with her family when she plans to marry a non-greek man.The film works in many levels and shows how two families from completely two different backgrounds learn how to come together and create one unit of people. It's truly the movie about apples and oranges.RATING 3 Stars (***)   "},{"Title":"A Big Fat Masterpiece..","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos), a 30 year old Greek woman who's future all seems to have been planned out by her family.  Grow up, marry a Greek man, have Greek kids, eat lots of Greek food and keep on breeding until her kids grow up and start the cycle all over again.  But this isn't the life she wants.  She wants to do something with her life and make it her own.She decides to go out to college and learn something new.  After seeing a new computer and tourism course advertised, she decides to make a business proposal to her Aunt Voula (Andrea Martin) and before you know it, she is running a travel agency.  She is finally pursuing the kind of life she always dreamed of.  Things get even better for Toula when she meets Ian Miller (John Corbett).  Unfortunately, there is only one thing standing in the way&#133; He is not Greek.  As much as Toula loves him, she just can not convince her father Gus (Michael Constantine) to accept him.  Ian decides to get himself baptized in the Greek Church in an attempt to win his way into Toula's family.  Gus eventually gives in and allows Toula to go ahead and marry Ian.Ian and Toula begin making their plans for a nice, intimate wedding but they are forgetting one thing&#133;Toula is Greek and Greek's do not have small weddings.  They have Big Fat Greek Weddings!!!  The wedding planning is soon taken over by Toula's family and Toula has less and less say in what goes on.This film is a great piece of work by Star and Writer Nia Vardalos.  It just goes to show that no matter what happens in life, your family is your family and nothing can ever change that.  There are some very funny moments in this movie and even a guest appearance or two from N*Sync's very own Joey Fatone as Angelo.Andrea Martin is extremely funny as Aunt Voula and Lainie Kazan is good as Maria, Toula's very wide and caring mother.  Nia Vardalos herself is very good as Toula and carries the film well.  The rest of the characters in the film are all good and the cast do a great performance.  The people must have had lots of great fun filming this movie.Film Quote Now give me a word&#133;Any word&#133; And I will show you how the root of that word is Greek &#150; Gus Portokalos (Michael Constantine)  "}{"Title":"A surprise hit?  But definitely!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This kind of picture - as old as the cinema itself - becomes not only an unexpected box-office success, but a pilot for a TV series - precisely what it was intended to be, whether its creators realized it or not.  The real surprise is that such a wholesome story populated by appealing characters found an audience in today's cinematic climate.  On the other hand, those who enjoy such a picture are the descendants of those who enjoyed Abie's Irish Rose close to a century ago, so maybe there's something genetic in it all.  Since the story (with only minor variations) has been done on the screen/stage/radio/television featuring families which were Jewish/Italian/Irish/Chinese, and probably other ethnic groups, why not the Greeks? For those of you who have been waiting...here it is harmless, and fun. "},{"Title":"A delightful romantic comedy definitely worth all the hype","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I heard about the overwhelming success of Wedding in the States I didn´t really become interested in it at all. Though I like all kinds of comedies it didn´t really feel like a my kind of movie. But in January I saw the trailer a few times and it looked very promising. I decided to see the movie when it hit the theaters in Finland and I´m glad I did because this movie is very, very good.I won´t go to details, but in short Wedding is one of the best romantic comedies that has come out of Holly... Ooops, I guess we shouldn´t say Hollywood because this was an independent production. I guess those big studio executives thought that the whole thing about the Greeks wouldn´t interest the citizens of the United States. I´d sure love to see their faces now that the movie´s become a worldwide box office hit. The movie is filled with wonderful performances and hilarious moments (Put some Windex on it!). You won´t see any really huge movie stars which just goes out to show that all you need is talent to make a really memorable movie.I want to see this movie again when it comes out on DVD and I´d recommend it to anyone who likes quality comedies. You rarely see movies this good. So SEE IT!  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was dying to see this movie because everybody went on and on about it...it was cute, some parts were amusing, but it wasn't THAT great. Toula's sudden makeover after years of being Aristotle Onassis didn't ring true, and I could see absolutely no reason why her betrothed would put up for one minute with her overbearing, obnoxious family. The only one that didn't irritate the crap out of me was her mother. And, even in her transformation, she was still powerless, not even having the guts to tell her family the bridesmaids' dresses were ugly beyond words and even the wedding dress sucked. He should have turned and run far, far away...  "},{"Title":"Cute, cliched...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cute. Low-key comedy. Sort of a chick flick. (Not that there's anything wrong with that!) It is jam-packed with cliches about immigrants, assimilation, and romantic comedies. I enjoyed the movie, but I wonder what all of the fuss was about. Grade B- "},{"Title":"sweet but disappointing","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like many others who have commented here, I had looked forward to seeing MBFGW.  After hearing so much hoopla surrounding this film, I expected it to be wonderfully entertaining.  I was extremely disappointed.The story was sweet and refreshing, the characters true and believable, but ultimately, I don't consider this movie to be entertaining.  I'm not sure where all the great publicity started with this movie, but it apparently caught on with some and just snowballed.I consider myself to be a relatively open-minded male who can enjoy a good chick flick with his wife.  Some of my faves are Much Ado About Nothing, Sense and Sensibility, Fried Green Tomatoes, Emma, Muriel's Wedding. This was nowhere near the caliber of those films.  I mildly enjoyed Toula's father and aunt.  There were a few chuckles and a touching bit of sentiment, but that's about it.I recommend waiting until this comes to television, because it's not worth a $4.00 rental!  ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Funny!!!!!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched the movie last night. My wife Margrett picked it out. I thought it was going to be a waste of time. My wife and me were in tears laughing. To me it seemed like a life story. It is a must see movie for the hole familly. It makes you fell Greek if you are not . Two thumbs up!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"NOT MY KIND OF FILM","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I find My Big Fat Greek Wedding a little boring not much going for it and it was not even funny its all been done before so there northing new and i can't understand why it made alot of money at the worldwide box office. I suppose the acting was alright but don't think its worth £325p to rent on video but this film is mainly for women.Giving this film 3/10 "},{"Title":"disappointed...","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've got this thing with romanctic comedies... They're not exactly my favourite genre (I'm more of a horrorfan), but some movies I really love... Anyway, I rented M.B.F.G.W. on DVD this week, because I heard some good things about it. But I was a bit disappointed when the movie ended... I had expected more firework as in more drama ... maybe like the movie The Wedding Banquet (that one was grand!); I know that you can't really compair those two flicks... Or perhaps I expected more from the Greek chaos ... I don't know... anyway I was disappointed ) sorry ... *lotsof3dots* "},{"Title":"If you've been to a Greek wedding, you've seen it all before.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if the Greeks enjoy laughing at themselves, but here there is ample opportunity to do so. The ugly duckling of a Greek family cannot find a husband despite her father's constant reminder that a woman's duty is to get married and make babies (and may I add...cook and eat lots of food!)The humour is liberally sprinkled throughout the film, not uproariously funny and for that matter, not particularly original.  Most of the film including the ending is predictable. Father is a great character and provides most of the humour in his belief that virtually everything has Greek origins.  His idea that a couple of squirts of Windex for most ailments and injuries is an effective and universal cure is quite funny and much used throughout the film.Father's world is turned upside down when his daughter announces that she has fallen in love with and intends to marry a non-Greek. Heaven forbid! What a calamity!  There are some funny and embarrassing moments for the groom-to be from the moment he is baptised in the Greek Orthodox Church and tries desperately to become one of the extensive family.There is a splendid emotionally charged scene on the wedding day when father finally accepts the young man.It's quite a nice family film with touches of advice and moments of wisdom about living your own life and doing your own thing.  In short, pleasant viewing but not remarkable. "},{"Title":"Cute, but bland","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a cute movie, but nothing really unique. I don't really understand why it was such a breakout hit. There are some good jokes, but they're used so much that they're beaten into the ground. After awhile the father's insistance on finding Greek root words and rubbing Windex on wounds becomes rather annoying. The plot also moves very fast as has already been stated in one of these reviews. After they meet it takes about 10 minutes for them to get engaged. Then those wacky, not-so-hilarious family reactions happen. Overall I would recommend it as a cute, slightly stereotypical comedy. Not spectaculaur cinema, but it'll probably make you smile. "}{"Title":"Too fast moving","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just ordered the movie from PPV with high hopes and just one didn't quite make it.  The movie is too fast moving... They met, fell in love, had family problems, got married all in one and a half hours?  The accents were very believable as was the story.. very cute.  The brother and cousin were more Italian then Greek, but it wasn't too noticible to make a difference.  Storyline was constant, good acting, very funny (not too stupid).. very entertaining.  Out of 10, I give My Big Fat Greek Wedding 7 stars.What is fat though? "},{"Title":"Sweet...and Boring.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ethnic humor at it's least offensive.  Everyone's nice, everyone's understanding, everything pans out in the end.  It's a happy film, through and through.  Sort of like cinematic novacaine, I'd say.  It does have funny parts, and is and outstanding date flick.  But that's it.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `We are all different, but in the end we are all fruit.' The surprise summer hit My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a film that presented me with questions of greater complexity than the content itself. I wondered about accuracy towards Greek heritage. I thought about the actors real like Greek backgrounds and I even had to indulge myself in a rather satirical thought, by any chance we the Addams Family of Greek decent? The similarities that this family adheres to are of phenomenal similarity to that of the Addams Family. But the Addams Family, a good `family' film need pay no dues to this one, an all right `family' film. For starters the Addams Family greeted that viewer to a look into their modern family life, presented each character with their own defining characteristics and only then, deployed itself into story mode, developing fully a beginning, a middle and an ending. This film shows us a day with the family, provides several of the more abundant characters with little quirks and then deploys into semi-story mode, only sporting that of a beginning and a conclusion. It possesses no middle and offers no such evidence of an ending. But let us not write this film off as a shamble before understanding it. That would be stereotyping. This is the story of Toula. Toula is a thirty-something Greek woman whose life is yet to begin. She is trapped in a sociological pothole. She works for the family restaurant as a `seating hostess.' She is part of a huge Greek family that immigrated to America to provide a better life for their children to grow up in. This is a family that takes boasting about their background to all new levels. Toula's father believes that he knows how every word in the English langue was derived from Greek words and that Windex can cure any ailment. She has a grandmother that was moved to the house from Greek because `our family just wasn't weird enough.' She comes to a point in life where she seems to even resent her family for their ways. Then one day she meets Ian Miller. She is shy at first but he engages a glitter in her eyes that cannot be resisted. The two begin to spark up a romance and soon they are engaged. For the first time in her life, Toula is happy, but the romance begins to coexist with her father's beliefs that Greek girls marry Greek men and have Greek children. Thus, madness ensues. This film plays out like a subtle sitcom. It presents a situation but it is one that does not have probably grounds for a simple solution. Because of this we can feel a little deeper for these characters than those of a television show. Since these people are living in real life circumstances we, the audience can deal in real life solutions. The film starts off as a slice of commentary that deals with the deprivation of living an unorthodox life in the real world provides. It is funny because it is stereotyped humour and we would rather laugh at something than understand it. But the humour in this film is a mixed bag. Some of it is smart and witty like the family's couch being wrapped in plastic and the Windex idea; it relies on contrast and not intellectual deprivation. Yet since this is a big family there is not always enough food to go around the table. Therefore some of the lesser-valued characters are reduced to a state of slapstick that works merely on a hit and miss basis. The film then slips from its wits and becomes an often-clichéd romantic comedy (a title synonymous for cliche). There seems to be a trend in romance these days. Relationships seem to be formed around false willingness. How to Loose a Guy in Ten Days sees two people realize they love each other through a stupid experiment of the sexes. Serendipity sees two perfect matches leave everything up to fate and end up wallowing in their bad choices and A Walk to Remember sees its `hero' drawn to a girl that he only noticed because he was forced into doing charity work. Has everyone forgotten that love is one with nature? This is what makes the romance in this film justifiable. These two people meet through natural attraction, they get to know each other, and as a result they fall in love. This is a romance that sees no shame and undertakes no misguidance and for that we have no problem in seeing it succeed. There is a scene of immense cliche at one point in the film. You have all seen it a million times before. The couple is outside taking a walk over the bright-lit city. The female turns away in discomfort over the continuation of their relationship. The male then pulls her close and announces his burning love for her, even after a short period of time. They kiss and run gleefully for the homestead where one thing will be able to lead to another. This film has the set-up, the build-up and even the possibility of reason but director Joel Zwick and writer Nia Vardalos obviously wanted to inject a bit of true life into the films values. The couple is outside; Toula turns away from Ian, questioning if the relationship can survive another day. He then turns her towards him and says `I just want to spend some time with you.' They smile at each other and walk off into the distance. Now tell me how many times you have witnessed that in a romantic comedy. It is nice to see that for once we are dealing with individuals that are driven by emotion over social status. The film moves at a furious clip, rarely giving the viewer time enough to delve into the family set-up or how they function as a unit, robbing the film of middle. When it all comes down to it, the idea of a Greek family is played almost entirely for laughs through the use of stereotypes. Since this is a large family and Zwick seems content on getting to the point as quick as possible the romantic bond between the two leads appears to become lost in the chaos of the family's running gags. Resulting in a product that is often funny and mostly warm-hearted but void of any real feeling of success or satisfaction. All of the actors in the film do their best to make a realistic everyman notion come from a not-so-everyday situation even though they play second fiddle to the wit and charm of the script. Most of them succeed, but it is Michael Constantine as the father and Nia Vardolas (who also received an Oscar nomination for her writing on this film) as Toula. Even though it may exist purely in a dying sub-genre that strives to reinvent itself but rarely succeeds, this is a film that will make you laugh and probably give you a warm feeling of amusement inside. I can recommend this film for sheer entertainment purposes as long as someone promises me that we will not being seeing My Big Fat Greek Funeral anytime soon.                      "},{"Title":"Academy Missed a Great Chance","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not sure about all the details of how the balloting works in the Oscar voting, but IF the Best Original Screenplay category was open to ALL members of the Academy, then they missed a golden opportunity to 'send a message' to the Film Industry.My Big Fat Greek Wedding, as the well known story goes, was ignored by the Industry at large. Or was offered the chance at production only if it was 'adjusted' to fit the vision of the 'experts'. Thank you Tom and Rita for holding fast to YOUR vision of letting Nia show us HER vision.In our Land of homogenization, McDonalds people-chow, cookie-cutter Shopping Malls, and Popular Culture with more Pop than Culture -- Greek Wedding is a refreshing breeze in the midst of too much stale air. And the 'experts' who run the Industry are, apparently, breathing nothing but that stale air in their offices isolated from the World the rest of us live in. Another example, from another segment of the same Industry that controls ALL of Popular Culture, is Oh Brother Where Art Thou. The Music from that film was ignored by the Industry, but walked away the winner in the Grammy Awards a year ago. Awards which, same as the Oscars, are selected by the 'masses' who comprise  the Membership in the respective Academies. These 'masses', the bulk of everyday folks who work in these Industries, are much closer to the 'streets' and more closely reflect the rest of us who do NOT get to vote for the Awards. This showed itself in the Grammy Awards. Too bad it didn't show itself in the Academy Awards.Nothing against the Film that did win the Best Original Screenplay. Perhaps a fine work no doubt, or it wouldn't have won. But IF the 'masses' in the Academy WOULD have ALL voted for Greek Wedding they could have shown the Film Industry Experts that yes, they, along with the Public who voted with their wallets this past year, support an independent, original, and quality effort. An effort that was recognized by the 'streets' and can still be seen by a few, a very few, 'experts' like Tom and Rita. Again, thank you both for letting us get to 'know' Nia and her family. "},{"Title":"Some big fat greek entertainment","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught this on video this past weekend and it was really good. Ms Vardolos writes well and did a great job in the role of Tula. Also, I can see why this movie also got a big fat nod from the Academy as well. Great movie, enjoyed every minute of it! "},{"Title":"great,funny movie","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie and thought it was just great. the actors/actresses hit every joke just right i hope they make a sequel to this movie. the chemistry between the charecters was great. i loved the windex joke that went on throughout the movie...it was just great. i like the movie way better then the t.v show "},{"Title":"I saw the tv show b/4 the movie","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everyone I know had seen the movie and I was so anxious to see it.  I had heard such great things from everyone.  I could not make it to the theater so I decided to wait for the DVD release.  But when I learned that the TV show would be airing I was psyched!  I only saw the first episode and thought to myself what was everyone thinking!  It was awful.  I did not find it funny I tried but could not get it.  I thought, do I want to bother with the movie now b/c if it's anything like this show it has to be terrible. I gave the movie a shot and it was great. It was simple, with a lot of ethnic, sterotypical humor but as a latina I can truly appreciate where Nia is coming from.  I really enjoyed it and do not understand why that first tv episode was so bad.  I will give the TV show one more shot.  "},{"Title":"This movie was cute and very funny","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed My Big Fat Greek Wedding. It had a great storyline and plenty of hilarious jokes. I thought all the actors did a great job and I think this movie got the recognition it deserved. Nia Vardalos was really great in this movie. I liked her transformation from a homely-looking waitress to a pretty, bright-eyed girlfriend. Her parents were hilarious. I think they were my favorite characters. Her family reminds me a lot of my own family because I have a huge family just like hers. And just my luck I'd probably hook up with a guy who has a small family like Toula's fiancee. (I forgot his name). This movie was sweet and charming and a great way to spend some time. I thoroughly enjoyed and those of you who didn't like it must not like this genre of movies. But thanks for reading my review and if you like sweet romantic comedies then you should definitely see My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  "},{"Title":"Big Fat Over-rated Wedding","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After hearing a few things from friends about this movie and reading about it a little I figured this movie would be of the overbearing family meets square family wedding genre with the paint by numbers light-comedy scripts that always go along with it.Well, I was right. A computer might as well have written this movie.It wasn't bad necessarily, but it was a long, long, way from being anything but mediocre fluff.The jokes were okay, but we've all seen them before.  The chemistry wasn't particularly believable. What's with her going into a mute shock the first time she saw that John Corbett fella? It's like she's never seen an attractive man before. Does walking a few blocks down the street take her 12 hours due to all the mute shocks she goes into every time a moderately good looking guy walks by?Some movies can subtly show a relationship developing without the red-flashing lights indicating to the audience these two people are going to end up together. I wouldn't even call what they had a relationship.  Still not sure what they saw each other as they were getting married like 4 seconds after they met. Seems like they both wanted to get married, and hooked onto the first attractive person that came along.I'd also like to point out for a woman that's supposedly trying to find her own identity and buck off a few of the cliches she's forced to live with as a Greek unmarried woman, why is it she only finds happiness after ... you guessed it ... SHE FINDS A MAN AND GETS MARRIED.  And why does she basically force her betrothed to become Greek Orthodox?  Screw that.  She was pretty spineless in the end after all.  "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the rare films that I truly enjoyed. It's witty and warm-hearted and it made me feel happy. And to conclude, I really liked the two main characters. Of course, others may object and say, The Greeks are not like this at all. or She ought to have broken free. etc. But it's a comedy, and thank God it's playful and not politically correct. "}{"Title":"FUNNY MOVIE!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yo, this is HILARIOUS! I laugh so hard every time I see it. It is romantic, happy, sad, and funny all at the same time. Andrea Martin does a great job. So does Yiayia, Gus, and Maria. I can't believe that the real Ian is that bald short friend of Ian Miller's. The TV show is stupid, though. It tries too hard to be funny, and, sometimes...it's not. Still, the movie Rules! "},{"Title":"I just don't find this movie very funny","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the huge box office number and high remarks on this movie, I went out and rented it.  However, I have to say I didn't really find it very funny.  Similar films have been made before and there's nothing much new in this one.  Are we that desperate in romantic comedy genre?You can easily replace the Greek part with Mexican, Italian, Spanish, and so on, and maybe other cultures with a slight modification.  It's illuminating to know that it was based on a one woman show, because it certainly makes you feel the uneasy stretch.  Imagine making the Vagina Monologues into a full length movie!  Even liberated women will agonize.The only thing I've found somewhat funny was Toula getting pulled down by the earphone wire and her papa calls everybody a fruit.  But for me, I have to be nuts to think this movie deserves all the buzz it's gotten. "},{"Title":"The Surprise hit of the year","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Toula(Nia Vardalos) is 30 and unmarried, which means as a nice Greek girl she is a failure.All her family did the right thing married Greek and had Greek babies.Everyone worries what will become of Toula.To escape from her family Toula quits the family restaurant, and goes to college.After college she coinvinces her aunt to give her a job.That's when she meets Ian Miller(John Corbett)She hides the romance from her family cause Ian is not Greek.When her family finds out they're a bit upset but since Toula and Ian are in love they try to except it.Nia Vardalos not only stars but also wrote the script.The Script was good but not great and Director Joel Zwick does a decent job.I never believe the hype and i am glad i didn't here.What really saves the movie is the solid performances from Nia VardalosMichael Constantine, Louis Mandylor and John Corbett.The rest of the cast was great as well and the acting made the movie better then it should have been.Louis Mandylor is a riot as Toula's brother NickThere were some really funny moments but at times the movie was kinda slow.It had it's moments but not nearly enough of them.N'sync member Joey Fatone has a small role.Tom Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson serve as ProducersI give My Big Fat Greek Wedding 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Comedy Of All Time","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what Nia Vardalos reacted when Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson scooped up her script but it must have been happy thoughts.  In the year 2003, it is the highest grossing and in my mind the best romantic comedy of all time.  The reasons are as follows (some spoilers contained within) (1) Nia Vardalos is a great actress and she had the best performance in the film.  She is really funny and really talented. (2) The film is deserving of the Original Screenplay Oscar it received.  The screenplay was tightly written and one can tell that much love and toil went into putting it together. (3) The introduction was one of the funniest I have ever seen.  Nia Vardalos pulled the right notes of sarcasm as she introduced each member of her family. (4) Michael Constantine was awesome as the stubborn patriarch. (5) The funniest gag had John Corbett saying something bad in Greek when he was trying to say Thank you. (6) Not only did this film skewer a few of the Greek stereotypes, it skewered a few of the stereotypes concerned with boring American families. (7) Every woman that has ever existed has manipulated some man in their lives and this film shows it exists in other ethnic groups. (8) The film didn't just deal with the marriage of the main character, it also dealt with the spreading of her wings and that was treated correctly. (9) The main message showed a normal-looking woman (who had some body fat on her) looking really good and being pursued by a guy who cared for her by more than just how she looked.  This is the closest that a romantic comedy has come to actually portraying a real romantic relationship in my mind and I don't think it will ever come this close again. (10) This is a rare romantic comedy were that had at least one gay male character and I found that to be a bit refreshing.  It seems that every romantic comedy that I have seen the last five years has that aspect.Overall, I found this to be my favorite romantic comedy of all time mostly because it shyed away from the typical romantic comedy formula.  It also shows that women don't fall into that image that Hollywood has created that has been infested throughout our entire planet.  There is nothing with a woman being herself and maintaining a nice appearance even though she looks far from being a Hollywood starlet.  That is a moral message that should be sent to all young women out there.  I consider My Big Fat Greek Wedding to be the new standard that all new romantic comedies should be judged against.  It is royally funny without being too disgusting and slanting into typical Hollywood trappings.  With the ten reasons stated above, this film receives a 10!  Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"Hilarious ride","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was more than expected, filled with funny lines and visuals that made it quite enjoyable.  Watch it and be delighted by the funniest cultural conflict movie to date.  Whoever says that it's boring are probably people who have never encountered people from other cultures--poor them!!  It's with movies like this that allows you to tell the traveled, world people from the local purists.   "},{"Title":"They're everyones family","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's a reason why this movie is the highest grossing romantic comedy- its funny!  The best part (and there are many) about this film is that Nia's family is everyone's family.  We all feel like we have a crazy family and feel for her when she's embarrassed, making a powerful connection with her. Anywho the movie is witty, timeless, and the funniest film I've ever seen. EVER! "},{"Title":"Kill me now","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let me say that I am all for independant films. Some of the best films, like DONNIE DARKO or A BETTER PLACE have come from humble production budgets and original thinkers. However, Nia Vardalos is killing me with this film. The entire film is based around two running jokes A large smothering family that is irritating as hell, and 500 put Windex on that jokes. I don't see why this movie got all this buzz and made $200 million while DARKO remains a critical and cult favorite but never gained the national recognition (or dare I say, Academy recognition) it deserved. I was going to give this film 1 out of ten, just because the guy from THE VISITOR is in it. But after seeing that Nia has also produced a television series based on the same concept, I give it a -10 out 10, the first film since MONEY TRAIN to score in negative double digits.  Have fun with the millions you made entertaining idiots, Ms. Vardalos. But stop torturing me, please. "},{"Title":"Absolutely great!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whether you belong to one half of the world (being Greek) or the other one (non-Greek) you are going to love this movie. I hate people going into details (what the movie is all about). That thing must be left for you to see, but I'm going to tell you next. Seeing the movie will make you laugh as you have never done before. You can choose to laugh at the Greek people or to laugh with them, the choice is yours.The movie is a wonderful story about history, family, tradition, love and how it all can be overcome. It gives a critic of a traditionally conservative society and on the contrary proves a point that not all that is old is bad. The thing you'll learn is that one must cherish the family values. But sometimes, it's just not that easy. Change yourself but never lose your identity. Give yourself a chance to have a big fat greek wedding, you won't be sorry. And if you have any problems with that just put some car wasing spray on it...PS. I really love the music in the film. You should check it out. "},{"Title":"cultural conflict","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  greek culture cultural conflict generation gap communication large family communication style (altho fight, fun together too) stubborn means strong concentration/focus, once change, big change "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the first film in a while to be funny, have a story and not be filled with gratuitus sex and foul language.  I hope this is hint to writers and directors that they do not have to pander to the lowest common denominator to make a successful film.  Good job. "}{"Title":"Leonidas' Revenge.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The word comedy comes from the Greek words 'komos', meaning banquet or festival and 'aeidein', which means to sing, and indeed this is a festival of singing, dancing, laughing  and, of course eating. It seems to m that Michael Constantine's entire career, as a film and TV star, was waiting for this part. The curt-cute expressions of Nia Vardalos, would make Athena, herself, cringe with envy. And just kudos upon kudos, to this entire production.This ranks as the equal or better, in the class of  'Moonstruck', 'Sleepless in Seattle', 'Three Weddings and a Funeral', 'Shakespere in Love', 'Mighty Aphrodite' etc., etc., so if you're the type that thinks that love is no less than a 'comedy' of errors, then be certain to bring home the 'Big Fat Greek Wedding'.  "},{"Title":"Not necessarily a Greek family (minor spoilers)","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What I loved about this movie was that I could relate to it without being Greek! This could be any ethnic or religious family. My Jewish family is just like this! This  movie is great! My favorite part is aunt Voula's anecdote about her twin sister to Ian's proper parents. Definately a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Harmless","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Harmless ethnic comedy, neither as vomitous nor as charming as some have made it out to be.  It's apparently adapted from a one-woman monologue, and you can tell every minute of the way.  Virtually plotless, the movie unfolds as a series of partially baked sketches featuring Ray-Romano-esque observational humor and affectionate stereotypes.  (Most of the jokes are moderately funny.)  Personally, I found Nia Vardalos's performance sort of odd and uneven--sullen ugly duckling one minute, vivacious joke-cracker the next.  It was a transformation I never quite bought.  But Andrea Martin steals the show as Aunt Voula, and her reaction to Ian's vegetarianism is worth the price of a rental in itself.  6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"It was radical","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone wondering why this movie, which was admittedly middle-range as comedies and romances go, was such a huge hit, I'll tell you why the female lead was a real woman.  I mean real as in no silicone, no blonde dye job, no nose job, and most importantly, a normal-sized body instead of a skeleton stretched over with a bit of skin.  It was an real risk casting Nia Vardalos as the lead, and it paid off.  The important message, and the real reason so many people (probably most of them women) went to see this movie is that an average-looking woman can not only get a good-looking man, but she got him in a perfectly natural courtship.  Vardalos had her little makeover, to be sure, but it was less a makeover than fashion common sense.  Get the hair off the face, lose the windowpane glasses, wear pastels more often.  Unlike movies like Shallow Hal and America's Sweethearts, to name just two, in which the supposed unattractiveness of the lead actress is something the man has to get over, in Greek Wedding Ian immediately feels attracted to Toula because he's not looking for a peroxide Barbie doll.  No, this movie wasn't a dizzying yuk-fest, but it did strike a deep, deep chord in the hearts of normal women everywhere.  If Hollywood had any brains (and it doesn't) it would make more movies with women who look like Nia Vardalos and fewer with those who look like (fill in the blank).For its radical departure from the norm and its wholesomeness, I give it 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Urban details","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When films are set in Chicago, the filmakers often try to give the city a gritty, urban feel, by dressing the set with such things as graffitti and litter. Another favorite is the street corner hot dog stand. ( See WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING. Although hot dogs were invented in Chicago, and a Chicago-style dog is a singular taste treat, you cannot buy them from a sidewalk vendor, as depicted in the pushcart outside of the travel agency in MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING. Chicago's food sanitation regulations prohibit food from being handled by people who do not have handwashing facilities. "},{"Title":"Something lost in translation","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING is a decent, but quite unremarkable romantic comedy.  I am disturbed that it got so many rave reviews.  Have romantic comedies gotten so bad that this is all you have to do to be praised to the skies?  Granted, I'm not the easiest person to impress with this type of fare I go in more for the Sturm und Drang stuff.  But I can certainly appreciate the genre's better offerings FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL, for instance, or SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE.  Next to those two, MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING looks okay, but very ordinary.The story strictly follows the romantic comedy formula; the patent on this stuff expired sometime around the year 1800 and is now in the public domain.  Toula Portokolos, child of Greek immigrants, meets handsome man.  Her family doesn't want her to marry him because he's not Greek.  She won't give in, so man and family compromise; he will do what it takes to become an honorary Greek.Writer and star Nia Vardalos originally wrote this story as a one-person stage play, and therein lies the movie's chief problem.  Many of the funny stories people tell have, or could have, the postscript, `It wasn't funny at the time.'  At the time, the narrator was upset, appalled, shocked, or frightened.  It's only in retrospect that everything looks hilarious.  All the comic material would probably work very well on stage, with Vardalos looking back and telling us the funny way everything happened.  But as we watch the movie, we are not looking back; we are right there at the time everything happens, and it isn't funny at the time, when Toula's aunt tells Ian's parents about her twin, or when Toula gets a zit on her wedding day.But the fact that the laughs are hit-and-miss doesn't make the movie bad.  It is unfailingly pleasant, and everybody (except Ian's parents) is loveable.  My favorite performance is Lainie Kazan's as Toula's mother, a big woman both physically and emotionally.  But I must also credit Michael Constantine for making Toula's father seem endearingly silly instead of irritating.Plaudits to Vardalos also for not having her character leap immediately into bed with Ian.  It is clear that this is a major step for her; Greek boys are supposed to marry Greek virgins, so as soon as she does the deed with Ian, she can never go back and do things over the Greek way.In sum, it's a perfectly adequate comedy.  I just don't see what the fuss is all about.  If it does nothing else, it proves that independent films can be just as bland as major studio productions.Rating **½ out of ****.Recommendation Genre fans should see it on video or DVD.  "},{"Title":"My Big Fat WASTE OF TWO HOURS!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The number one romantic comedy of all time?   It doesn't deserve to be in the top 100!   You MIGHT get a chuckle or two from the windex, but other than that, this may be the most overrated and overhyped movie of all time.  ('blair witch' might still hold those titles of 'most overrated' and 'most overhyped' though)If you haven't seen it, don't.  If you decide to NOT listen to me, you will be VERY TICKED OFF when you finally do see it and discover out how MARGINAL and AVERAGE it is. "},{"Title":"A hit with our family!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The thing I like most about this movie is that it's good *clean* fun. I was able to recommend it to my mother-in-law without having to say If you ignore the abundant foul language, bloodshed, potty humour, and sex scenes, you'll love this movie!.  Nia Vardalos stars as Toula, a Greek woman of 30 who has not yet married.  The movie begins with a brief rundown of her history with her family, and starts off with her feeling a bit hopeless and downhearted, wondering if anything will ever change.Then, she decides to branch out and make something of her life, taking advantage of her interest and talent with computers, and upgrade her skills at college.  She buys new clothes and does her hair and feels a bit better about herself.  Then she meets Ian (Michael Corbett), a non-Greek highschool teacher.  They date and fall in love, much to the chagrin of her very Greek Orthodox family.As you watch the things Ian does to gain acceptance of Toula's family, and see the humorous ways in which this is portrayed, you will feel like a part of the family yourself.I highly recommend owning the DVD.  The characters are fairly easy to relate to.  They chose a cast of average looking actors that did not all look like supermodels, everyone was realistic looking.  It was a treat to see Andrea Martin as Aunt Voula. "},{"Title":"I'm a snow-beast!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, the hype machine has dragged this poor movie deep into the ground.  With that said, it is very funny and charming.  You'll especially like it if you have a massive family and have a very hard time naming ten friends who aren't somehow related to you.  I think the aunt and the cousins are my favorite characters. "},{"Title":"Interesting comedy on culture shock","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is presently showing in cinemas in Paris, France, so I went along to see it and thoroughly enjoyed itThe actors are true to life, not overly made up and not unrealistically beautiful but attractive all the same.The culture clash between the two families was the most interesting aspect of the film and this gives rise to many hilarious situations. Most of it is seen from the Greek point of view and we learn little about the family of the bride, except that they are rather reserved and obviously have never experienced ouzo before.I do not know any real Greeks so can't say whether the portrait herein painted is true to life, but the Greek women seem fairly typical, fairly beefy physically and ruling the roost in the household.Anyway the film treats an interesting subject matter and has original idea to it. True the script isn't up to much, but this is not really a loss as the various characters, by being themselves, provide the spectator with more than enough pleasure.I would therefore recommend the film to anyone liking romance and also culture shock ( which is my case ) "}{"Title":"Sweet Greek","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most romantic comedies tend to draw conflict from a bizzare situation--he lives two thousand miles away from her, she wants her beautiful best friend to pose as her, etc. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. But it's a joy to see a romantic comedy like My Big Fat Greek Wedding, which requires no such contrivance. This is not a movie about two people trying to get together, but about two people who have decided to be together and now have to cope with the consequences of that.Nia Vardalos plays Toula, a thirty-year-old single woman in a fiercely traditional Greek family, who fears her life is over before it's started. In order to find greener pastures, she gets a makeover and a job at a relatives travel agency, where chance throws her in the path of Ian Miller (John Corbett), a teacher with a WASP background. Perhaps the most refreshing part of Wedding is that Vardalos and Corbett actually look like real people--both are attractive, but without the glamorous, seven-hours-in-hair-and-makeup look often sold as beauty. We can believe that these are two ordinary people who might meet, connect, and decide to spend their lives together, as Toula and Ian do.Of course, there's difficulties. Toula's father, firm in his beliefs that a) the Greeks are the paramount of all the world's cultures and b) nice Greek girls should marry nice Greek boys, grumbles much about his daughter's intended nuptuals. The remainder of her family is more pragmatic, rejoicing that Toula has found any sort of husband--a prospect most had given up as lost. Ian's sedate parents, meanwhile, are bowled over by Toula's large, rambunctious family. There's quarreling among the troups, setbacks, and complications, but underneath the bonds of love which can only be shared by families who know their relatives are not perfect but love them anyway. And that, perhaps, is the love story that makes Wedding worth watching. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie for the genre","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To truly be able to appreciate the beauty and humor of this movie, you have to have a sense of what living life in an extremely ethnocentric family is all about.  I personally loved this movie because of the sense of family and pride that Gus Portokalos showed in defending his Greek upbringing.  I also loved Toula branching out and trying to become more than what she was - an ugly duckling who was destined to be an old maid, running the family business when she was old and gray. Maybe I appreciated this movie because it is such an accurate portrayal of the Greek families that I have been associated it with throughout my life. Greek people are proud and intensely loyal and value family so much more than anything else.You also have to be a fan of the romantic comedy genre; this fits nicely into the category along with hits like `the runaway bride', `when harry met sally' and `father of the bride' - if you aren't a fan of the genre and watched this movie expecting something different, perhaps that is the reason for your disappointment. I honestly did NOT know that Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson had ANYTHING to do with this movie until AFTER I saw it. As for those who don't find Nia Vardalos attractive, I say beauty is in the eye of the beholder.  I remember a few years back seeing a movie called `Circle of Friends' with a similar premise and an overweight unattractive Irish girl as the lead.  I couldn't help thinking to myself, `Wow, she has great features if she would just do a little bit to herself'. Well, come to find out that girl was Minnie Driver, one of the hottest young ladies in Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"what was the big fat deal?","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie, and while it is not bad, I fail to see what the hype is all about. i watched this with my brother and his wife and we found it to be extremely slow and somewhat boring. I liked the tender moments between the brother and sister (you dont see that too often in movies) and the were some funny moments but overall i find it to be very overrated. "},{"Title":"Haha!  Great movie!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I think I was perhaps the last Greek person on earth to see this movie.  I'm not quite certain when the movie came out in theaters, but I saw it this past December, and the theater was STILL packed with laughing people.  Now I HIGHLY dislike romantic comedies, and so I went into this movie expecting to make chuckle a few times.  Boy, was I wrong!I mean, don't get me wrong...the story was sappy and predictable like all the people who badmouth this movie claim it is.  So what?  It was nice to sit and watch a movie that didn't have a $200 million dollar budget and a load of special effects.  It didn't need the special effects and it certainly didn't need a huge budget.  It was a great movie to just sit back and watch.  There was nothing thought-provoking about it.  I wasn't horrified by blood and gore.  It was a nice change of pace from movies today.Maybe I am slightly biased because I am Greek.  I could relate to a LOT of the jokes, yet sitting there with my non-Greek friends in a theater filled with presumably people of non-Greek background, I could see that everyone was enjoying the film.  No matter what your ethnicity is, you will connect with and relate to this movie on some level.   "},{"Title":"Another sweet fairy tale","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!!! This movie was great. I recommend it to most people. No matter where your family is from, you will somehow relate this movie to your life. Its a very uplifting movie about a plain, frumpy, unhappy woman who helps herself, falls in love, and lives happily ever after. "},{"Title":"A charming witty romantic comedy, much needed for the 21st century!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutly loved the movie. It was nice to see a unique nationality on the screen, other than African, Spanish, and American. It's high time they delved into the different countries of the world, and this was a fantastic venture. It was the love story for the majority. Some comment on her being unattractive, but even people who others claim to be in that category find love. I'm fed up with the posh runway supermodel hyped up imagery we've established when it comes to making love stories. And the fact that it was based on fact, made it all the more appealing. And gave the rest of the love struck universe a glimmer of hope... "},{"Title":"What is soo special","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What is so special about this movie?  It was a good movie.. Funny at times. and it had its moments... But for me there was way too much about the Greek way of life and some of the things that were supposed to be funny I guess weren't.. I work at a Hollywood Video and I have heard from a lot of people that agree.. If you are looking for a GOOD Comedy or a good romance..  DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"A little disappointing","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With all the hype surrounding this movie, about how funny it is, I was expecting to laugh like i did when watching moonstruck, or 4 weddings and a funeral.  Unfortunately, i only laughed a few times, and most of the movie was slightly predictable, and a little boring. This movie is highly overrated and not worth the price i paid for the dvd. "},{"Title":"A sweet, funny, entertaining movie","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was nice to sit down and just be entertained without being grossed out by gore, scared to death or having to find some deep meaning to everything.  I laughed a lot.  This is a funny feel-good movie and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"loved it!!!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved the entire movie!!!! I loved the characters the background music, everything esp. the grandmother who kept sneaking away. all of it, I so loved it, I suggest anyone whose anyone to watch it!  it was funny and heartwarming. "}{"Title":"A Big Fat Dissapointment!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and it was dissapointing. It was hyped up to be one of the best comedies out there, but it was hardly that. While there were some good moments...there just wasn't enough. If your looking for a great romantic movie with very little comedy then this is the movie for you. I give this movie 3starts (out of 10). "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Delight!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" We all like the ugly duckling becomes a swan type of story.  Middle Greek daughter, Toula, is 30 and, as she says, beyond her expiration point.  Her family is convinced they will have her on their hands forever.  Toula's father, Zorba, played excellently by Michael Constantine, wants her to stay working in the family restaurant.  That is until she meets the Ultimate WASP catch, Ian Miller, falls madly in love, and proceeds to change her life.Much of the humor concerns the clash of the bland, protestant, Ian's family and the boisterous, warm, eccentric Greek Toula's family.  The scene where Ian's parents come to meet Toula's parents is a classic.This is a funny film with many family-friendly messages. "},{"Title":"Would have been better as a sitcom","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hear this movie is being made into a sitcom, which is not surprising, because it has about 30 minutes worth of storyline, reuses the same jokes over and over again, and is a blatant rip off of such comedies as Everybody Loves Raymond (on tv) and Moonstruck (in the movies).  It wasn't terrible and it wasn't too offensive if you don't mind completely stereotypical characters (and by this I mean Greeks and Non-Greeks alike) and a haven't I seen this before? plot.  Really, the only innovation here is that Greeks are substituted for Italians, Jews, or any other group that is defined by overbearing eat more parents.  It was fun to see the Greek side of things and there were a few funny jokes, but for the most part, it reeks of sitcom. It has been asked, If it is so ordinary, why do people like it so much? Well, people liked Moonstruck too.  And, they like Everybody Loves Raymond and every other similar plotline.  That is because everyone of every ethnicity has a crazy family which drives them crazy at times.  So, on some level, everyone can relate.  The only problem lies in the fact that the eccentricities and originality of the film are not that eccentric or original.  Like I said before, not awful, but not great or even that funny either.  I recommend if you like romantic comedies or family pictures and don't mind seeing all the same conventions and jokes again.  If you liked Maid in Manhattan, How to Lose a Guy in 10 days, or anything of the like, then RUN, don't walk to rent this.  If you LOVED Moonstruck or any movie with an eccentric family, again, Run. Otherwise, wait for cable. To the best screenplay Oscar, I laugh and say, if only Tom Hanks hadn't ever heard of the movie, it would already be on cable. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The funniest movie I've ever seen.The fact that people left the cinema recalling scenes of the movie and saying opa says a lot...Even though the movie, as any comedy uses to do, makes intensive use of stereotypes, it's a remarkable work. It's truly fun, without recurring to obscenity nor vulgarity as the typical modern comedies. Also, the actors worked very well.I will certainly watch it again soon.  "},{"Title":"Really Good And Funny","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie where you see that everything is exactly as it should be. The script is just right and it lets you see you are not watching a common romantic comedy(open your ears Meg Ryan).The perfomances correct and funny(the brother and the grandma).The main character played by Nia Vardalos makes you really care about her and and as the movie goes you see she is the one sane there in all that familySPOILER!!!Her brother was really funnywhen he tells  Voula´s boyfriend how to speak Greek, and the grandma and aunt were also great. END SPOILEROverall a movie that is very well done and will become a classic undoubtedly "},{"Title":"Entertaining And Fast Paced","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, based on the real-life experiences of Nia Vardalos, who wrote the script and starred as Toula, a 30ish Greek woman, apparently destined to life without marriage, who suddenly meets and falls in love with Ian (John Corbett) who - to the horror of Toula's traditional Greek father (Michael Constantine) - is not Greek! This very funny movie follows Toula as she tries to overcome her family's hesitance about the marriage across ethnic lines and only-child Ian, raised by quiet and introverted and now bewildered parents (played magnificently, by the way by Bruce Gray and Fiona Reid) as he tries to adjust to becoming a part of this big, boisterous family.This movie has a bit of everything you want for an evening of entertainment. It's funny. It's romantic. It's touching. There's nothing in it that would prevent you from watching it with your kids. It's just a fun 90 minute romp. (If I have any criticism of it at all, it would be that it's a bit too frenetic and fast-paced in some ways. How did Toula's father come around so quickly? How did the wedding day appear so suddenly?)A very entertaining movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is not a good movie. It was not an entertaining comedy. Although there were a few humorous moments, overall I found the movie to be very bland, full of cartoon characters and ethnic stereotypes.Two things do seem odd to me a. Great word-of-mouth doesn't always mean quality. b. The series of 30 second television commercials promoting the DVD were funnier than the film. Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan are playing the same characters in the ads. Perhaps My Big Fat Greek Wedding is better in short takes and not 96 minutes. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My husband bought me this for Valentines Day and I loved it. It was funny, romantic and sweet. It reminded me a lot of my own Jewish family when I married a Catholic instead of a Jew. I really loved this movie and give it 4/4 stars )  "},{"Title":"A light, entertaining movie - sweet and endearing.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie once it came to DVD - and I must admit that all the hype had built it up so much, that I feared I would be dissapointed.  I am happy to say that I wasn't really disappointed because it was a very sweet movie.  It had some very funny moments, and I really enjoyed the performances.  Nia Vardalos deserves her moment in the sun, and it's nice to see a movie like this be so successful.  Keep in mind that this is not on the same par as movies like SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE or WHEN HARRY MET SALLY; but it sure beats most of whats out there today! "},{"Title":"What's wrong with fluff?","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not a thing!  Movies are supposed to be entertaining, and this one entertains!  The script is lovely, and the actors look like real people!  I loved it.I saw this movie in the theaters 3 times (because I wanted my husband and then my daughter to see it).  This is a great movie for the whole family.  I've read some criticism about the stereotyping of the Greek people portrayed in the movie, and I have to say that our Greek friends are not offended at all.  It is a treat theses days to see a nice story about people that seem real (not plastic 100 pound Hollywood barbie dolls). There are so few romantic comedies made that are not rated PG13 or R.  My hope is that Hollywood is REALLY listening and will give more attention to movies that are a bit cleaner than some of the stuff that's been released lately.  Some weeks, there won't be ANY movies rated G or PG at the multiplex...I find that very sad.  "}{"Title":"Never Seen Windex Funnier","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I laughed every time Gus sprayed Windex on somebody. Unless you are offended by cultural stereotyping, this movie should entertain. Tom and Rita have a great eye for material. Would love to see the stage piece that this was developed from.Grab some souvlaki and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I purchased the DVD this week and watched this movie for the first time, not having seen it in the theatre.  I loved it!  It's one of the better movies I've seen in a while.  The story was simple, funny, and clean.  Too many movies today have too much foul language, but this is a great movie.  I recommend this to everyone! "},{"Title":"Cute But Nothing Special","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a sweet but only rarely funny movie with mostly underplayed or over-reaching performances. Still, I hear people (mainly seniors and middle-aged people) talking about seeing the movie two and three times and laughing uproariously. I just don't get it. Maybe people just feel good seeing a huge, eccentric loving family causing problems that aren't really problems for people who love each other for no apparent reason and without any conflict at all in their relationship. In other words, a fantasy, feel-good movie -- no sexual ambiguity, no politics, no adolescent or middle-age angst, no subtlety at all.There's nothing wrong with that, of course, and who would argue with the film's economic success? My wife is certain half the battle was won with the title. I think she's right. Nobody can fail to be curious about a movie with a title like that.Favorite moment (only big laugh) Andrea Martin with the teeth and the spinal cord. "},{"Title":"Not worth the rental","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After hearing all the good press about this movie, I was happy to rent it. Boy was I disappointed! Supposedly a comedy, there were only 2 times I laughed during this film, and those were mild snickers. A couple meet, fall in love and get engaged in about 10 minutes or less of film time. What a waste of the talents of Lainie Kazan and Michael Constantine who have to give the predictable stereotype Greek performances the script requires. I applaud the true independent low budget good film project, but this, funded partially by HBO in the title credits , wasn't one of them. Perfomances were dull, unfortunately John Corbett (who I usually like) was the worst offender - being able to both smile, sleepwalk and pick up a check through this one. Toula's ( the brides ) father makes a reference to people being  dry, like toast with no feeling. That was pretty much what this movie was like. Nia Vardalos who plays the lead ( and also scripted) is quite attractive, sharp and appealing though. Overall, this film could have been edited down severely down to 20 minutes and still would have been to long and unamusing. "},{"Title":"Tom Green or Mike Myers could only dream of writing comedy this good.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Greek wedding may be the second commedy (taking its place next to Young Frankenstien) to find a spot in my hall of fame DVD collection. Genuinely funny with memorable characters (Gus Portakalos for one), this is one movie you can actually take your Grandmother to. In fact my 91 year old grandmother (who hasnt been to a movie in 30 years) went to see it and she loved it!This one is highly recommended. No complicated plots, no Woman hides her life, guy finds out, guy leaves, girl wins him back plot line, just a lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Worth The Hype? No.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After all the hype this movie got, I was hesitant to even see it because I figured it just couldn't be as good as everyone was saying it was. I think this was a nice story about a girl, her eccentric family and accepting her culture and where she comes from. And of course the classic love story. Was this film worthy of all the attention and praise it received? I don't think so. But it was enjoyable and had funny moments. Why on earth they would want to spin it off into a TV series, I have no idea. But you never know, it could be as likeable as the film. At least it has the original actors participating in it. "},{"Title":"Amazingly bland whirlwind romance wrapped up in pita bread","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented My Big Fat Greek Wedding last night after finally succumbing to all the hype and all I got was a movie with ethnic fun and little content.  I personally had my own big fat Turkish wedding and many of the characters reminded me of my family.  Possible SpoilersSome of the parallels between my own life and the film were fun to watch, but I can't imagine any average American liking this movie.  The movie basically says that Americans lead dull and boring lives devoid of parties and lamb roasting on a spit in the front yard.  It's critical of Turkey which is typical and none of the characters with the exception of the father (Michael Constantine) have any depth.  Sure there are some funny moments (Gus and his windex, the grandma getting hosed by the sprinklers) and one touching one (her parents wedding present), but the film plays more like a cross between stand-up comedy and an episode of Everybody Loves Raymond than a feature film.Perhaps most perplexing is Nia Vardalos.  I was thrilled to see a real-looking actress front and center rather than the fake Julia Roberts type.  Unfortunately, Vardalos is not meant to be a lead.  Perhaps its the script and Vardalos will be better in the sitcom.  John Corbett phones it in as the man of her dreams.  I didn't believe for a minute that Ian Miller (Corbett) would propose so quickly and be comfortable with her family and his Greek Orthodox baptism.As one reviewer put it, A bunch of junk wrapped up in pita bread.5/10       "},{"Title":"Tediously schmaltzy ethnic romance; a movie-length sitcom whose popularity is a reflection of vacuous pop culture.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one is so designed to please that it's success at the boxoffice is far from a shock.  That said, it's an inconsequential slice of ethnic attitude and romantic pap that makes MOONSTRUCK look like CITIZEN KANE. I recommend this to all middle-class, middle-aged married slobs. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT, and I don't care if you don't like it","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Something I'm wondering about I've read through the comments made aboutthe movie, and it seems all the negative comments are from people who1.have never experienced this sort of thing 2.are Greek and are onlybashing on it because they may not have had the exact same experiencesand are therefor calling it fake or are supposedly offended becausesome actors weren't actually Greek 3.people who probably got dragged tothis movie and didn't understand it 4.children who shouldn't have seenit in the first place because they can't appreciate films with meaningand would rather be watching some comic-book adaptation 5.feel everycharacter in a movie should be a perfect 10, therefor contributing toour nation's already unrealistic representation of self 6.people whobash on movies just for the hell of it to boost their low ego or 7.aresimply brain-dead. If someone posted something legitimite as to why theydid not like the movie, then I'd gladly ammend the above, but so farI've only seen bashing for the sake of bashing without any substance. Ifyou don't like something, fine, you don't like it. There's no reason toadd meaningless insults in a poor attempt to justify your position.This movie WAS independent (independent means they didn't get the moneyfrom a major motion picture company and nothing more - if you readanything else into that, you're wrong. And Tarantino is notindependent). Obviously something about it had to be good, or else theword of mouth wouldn't have spread. This movie had virtually nomarketing, and what people don't seem to realize is that whether youliked it or not, if you contributed your money to see it, youcontributed to the film's success. I'm sure Nia Vardalos could honestlycare less what a bunch of people who have nothing better to do withtheir time than bash her movie on the internet have to say. She'slaughing herself all the way to the bank, and you know what? Good forher!  "},{"Title":"A good film with too much hype.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of low budget independent films, and I'm happy to see that this film has done so well. It just goes to show you that you don't need 50 or a 100 million dollars to make a entertaining movie. With that said, I thought this movie was just good, not great, and not all that funny. Being from an Italian American family, I can honestly say nothing in this film is new to me or has not happened in my family. Some of the jokes where over done, and to me it got a little boring. I was waiting for something to happen, that would really make this film great, and I thought it would come in the wedding scene. But over all, I very happy for the writer and the film makers. "}{"Title":"I did not think it was possible, but this movie sucks and blows","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How in the hell did it make 200 some million. Cardboard characters, over-the-top acting, simplistic plot. This is an indie movie for people who don't like indie movies. Not even worth a DVD rental. I'd shut this off even if it was running on cable at 3 am and I had insomnia from eating to many cookies. "},{"Title":"Too much hype","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After hearing about this movie for months, I finally saw it at a dollar theater last week, and I was very disappointed. The movie was nothing near as funny as the reviews had told. While it was cleaner and more wholesome than most comedies of late, it's biggest virtue, it was also quite slow and boring, worth seeing once, but not again. If you are willing to compromise humor for cleanliness, this is your movie, but I would place my recommendations elsewhere. "},{"Title":"i loved this movie","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie because it's full of simple enjoyment of life and it highlights the importance of family.  I can say that if this really happened to Nia then she is a lucky woman.  Plus the joke about apples and oranges was touching. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight, i know its been out a long time and is about to be released on feb 11th, and i thought it was a really great movie. The acting was great, and the plot was great, just goes to show that 2 people from different backgrounds can meet and fall in love, and you can get your family some way or another to accept it. the one thing that i did notice was that Joey Fatone (Angelo) isnt much of an actor, although he didnt do a bad job at all, i guess i didnt think he was a great actor b/c i think he should be singing and not acting, but he didnt have that many talking lines, so it didnt make much of a difference, i just wanted to note on that part.i plan on buying this movie when it does come out, and will watch it over and over, im sure this movie is going to become a classic, that people with contually watch. I cant wait to see if the tv series is going to be as good as the movie, they are keeping the same actress in the tv series too though, so im sure theres no doubt that it will be just as great.if you havent seen it, i do recomend it, or renting it. "},{"Title":"A family movie for the family","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was much expectation here in Mexico to see My big fat greek wedding since it was one of the surprise box office hits in the USA.The movie, however, did not have the same impact on the mexican audience. Maybe the USA movie goers found very amusing the story of an extremely close and large family, with conservative values and a knack for traditions, going crazy because of a wedding. In Mexico it's something you see twice or thrice a year. So, many of the people that watched the movie left the theater asking themselves That's it?.Aside from that, I think it was a very nice romantic story. It deals mainly with coping with the family and finally getting to enjoy being a part of it. What I liked about it is that it went right to the point, it does not have unexpected turns or complicated obstacles. It just about a greek woman and an american man getting married; it's that simple, yet funny.I got some good laughs but not a lot more than what I got from the trailer. It has many bright moments sprinkled across the film. "},{"Title":"Good but Predictable (SPOILERS)","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a good but not great comedy. Performances are good, script is decent, story line is fun. There are few laughs, and it was the surprise of the year. WARNING SPOILERSo when the man proposes to Toula (I think that's her name), he's not Greek so now he will do anything to marry her. And, in case you haven't guessed it by now, they get married. It's good fun, though, and it is good for women, and they probably will enjoy it more but men can enjoy it (just not as much, probably). Grade B "},{"Title":"If you're lucky enough to be from a big family you'll enjoy this!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is drawn from Nia's real life growing up Greek in Winnipeg.  It's riotously funny a points, touching a times, and a great film for the whole family.  It does not condemn Greeks or non-Greeks but make a strong comment on what it takes to have deep roots as well as to be from average families, and why these opposites attract.  The title give you the premise, I thoroughly enjoyed the rest and I'd hate to give away one part of this.  See it for yourself.  I dare you not to enjoy this! "},{"Title":"A real treat!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All I have to say is FUNNY! You have to see this film. I haven't enjoyed a comedy as much since Amelie. Vardalos is fantastic, and Corbett is her equal in every scene the two are in together. However, supporting actors Constantine and Martin, steal nearly every scene they are in. With a great script, and a 'funny because it's true' plot, this movie is definately one of the year's best comedic films.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely unique - and hilarious - AND touching","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by My Big Fat Greek Wedding.    I have been a great fan of John Corbett since Northern Exposure and enjoyed seeing him in a great movie.    The whole movie reminded me of Moonstruck and all it's zaniness.    I hope it gets in the Oscar nominations for Best Picture. It deserves it.    Also John Constatine was brilliant as the father.   He's always played dramatic roles and was great as the Greek/Windex-using father. "},{"Title":"TV Show Built for the Multiplex....","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think it's a sign of the overall design of this movie's screenplaythat a TV series is being adapted from it, because the movie isSOOO built for that eventuality you have to wonder why Mrs.Vardalos and Mr Zwick didn't just go to NBC with the $5 million snfcreate one.The direction, to be quite frank, is mostly from thatarena, with a starling lack of close ups and mostly two-camerawork, just like in TV. Watch any episode of Cosby Show and askyourself whether that show is more about, characters or cameras.If you answered the former, you're correct. More importantly,though, TV sit-coms, which is most certainly the genre My Big FatGreek Wedding belongs to, seem about catching the lead-up andpunch-line, which is how this movie is shoot and how the camerawork flows. For me, a visual lover and camera devotee, this alwaysstrikes me as a little lazy of a style when it comes to film-making.Zwick isn't shooting a TV pilot, but rather an hour and a half film.About the characters, I find myself agreeing with another friend -who reviews for a local newspaper - when he says that all thecharacters come off largely as stereotypes. As usual with me, I'mtrying to find some justication for this, as I know that two veterans -I believe Vardalos has been doing comedy for quite some timeand assume the one-woman show for a great deal of time as well- probably wouldn't do something without some reason. Now, is itto try and show the clash of cultures? If so, why is the Greek sideshown with so much seemingly more variety of characters thanthe WASP side? And, if it's not about culture clash and thecharacters still not meant to be more than skin-deep, then why,again, isn't this either a made-for-TV movie or considered as apiece of lazy writing as any other cliche-ridden screenplay withplate-deep characters? The movie seems to be in need of either fewer characters or alarger palete with which to work from. Perhaps the TV  series willsupply some answers.Andrew. "}{"Title":"Best comedy ever!!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It took me 5 months to see this movie, and when i finally saw it, i was amazed. I just loved this movie. Its very funny, and i relate to it alot because im a Serb and Serbs are very close to greek, of course there are differences but we are very close custom wise. I recommend this movie to anyone. I cant wait till its available on Dvd, because im buying it!!! 10+/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Entertainment","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I did expect a bit more.  I saw this after all the hype and hoopla and expected to get blown away--I didn't.  What I did get though was a really enjoyable movie that made me laugh and cry a little.  Yes, the Greek characters are stereotypical.  Yes, the non-Greek boyfriend is a little too cute, clean, nice, conforming, etc.  But the story works in the sense that it reminds us all that rather than run from our families (and I don't just mean nationality), we should embrace our heritage and family quirks as part of what makes us who we are.  If you want to be simply entertained, go see this movie. "},{"Title":"A Big Fat load of rubbish","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would be very interested if any Greek people were offended by this movie since it portrayed them as, well, ridiculous. And when they weren't being ridiculous then they were horribly saccharine. And if they weren't being saccharine they were acting really badly. Wedding continuously tries to capture European, quintessential magic, but each and every time it comes out as pretentious and corny.Okay, it wasn't totally biased towards the Greeks; it also did a marvelous job with the grooms 'whitey' parents. My brain performed painful contortions when confronted with such a cringe worthy, one dimensional and embarrassingly staged attempt at humor.Wedding is not charming. Wedding is a load of self indulgent rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Short but Sweet review of a good movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was overall a very good movie.  The only objection I had was the inference that the couple slept together before marriage.  Other than that it was a great movie with laugh out loud scenes.  I would watch this movie again though I would wait until it's out on video.   "},{"Title":"Excessive Escapism","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"       Without seeming terribly sexist it is easy to see that this film was written by a women.  Everything is very contained and pretty much evolves around relating to others and making sure all social events go over well.  Also life doesn't begin until you are in a relationship and then when you are everything else is pretty much solved.     The story involves a lonely, ugly duckling 30 year old who is constantly being badgered by her suffocating parents to get married. Then one day she decides to 'change her life'.  She buys contacts and make up and gets a job at a travel agency.  Then for reasons that defy all logic an incredible hunk of a man, suitable for a pin up calender, sees her working through the store front window and falls head over heels for her.  They date briefly and then have a wedding.  The rest is just the perverbial culture clashes between her ethnic parents and his wasp parents.     The film fails in many ways.  The first is the hunky boyfriend/husband.  Besides being really good looking he is also kind, gentle, sensitive, neat, caring, stalwart, rugged, diplomatic, and most importantly highly adaptive.  He seems more like a fantasy of this lonely women than anyone she would really meet.  He is like the amalgamation of what a 100 women surveyed would consider as their dream man.     The parents and family are played waaaaaay over the top with their greek stereotypes.  Their fixation on their ethnic background and cultural heritage seems to border on the irrational.  It is like they were locked into some cultural time warp with absolutely no sense of anything that is going on around them.  Sure it's a little cute at first, but eventually it just gets too overplayed.  Besides it's extremely broad humor it also has recurring moments of sloppy sentiment that is both annoying and embarrassing.     Sure it succeeds with comedy 101 with standard 'funny' banter and running jokes all neatly in place.  Yet none of it is wholly original. There is also no cinematic quality to it.  It looks like a TV sitcom projected onto the big screen.     Some may find this whole thing suitable, but there is nothing to retain from it.  On the whole it is very threadbare and empty.     Veteran character actors Kazan, Constantine, and Martin give very lively performances and help immensely. "},{"Title":"Best Comedy in 2002","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  2002 gave us many poor excuses for comedy (Mr. Deeds, Goldmember, The Hot Chick, etc.) so it was only natural for this hillarious indie flick to come out of the woodwork.  I saw this film in September, and am still quoting it.  I found it relatable, which became the selling-point for it.  Nia Vardolas has made her way! "},{"Title":"What is all the fuzz about??","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had the opportunity to watch this movie last august while on a flight from México to New York.  I don´t get it, what is good about it?About 70 minutes into the movie I chose to turn my head and watch the clouds outside the plane, as they seemed less boring than the movie.It probably has some good and interesting stuff but I could not find it.In my scale of grades it gets a 1 which is the less I give a movie. Fortunately I didn't pay to watch it (8;-)  "},{"Title":"Not excellent but enjoyable enough","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' had the foundations of a high quality and excellent movie that could have been a classic. It had a considerable amount of potential and the majority of elements that constitute great classics. The only essential ingredient it lacked was a good script. This quite obviously reduced the whole quality of the movieI would not be in a position to fault the performances of the various actors involved. Nia Vardolos provides us with an enjoyable, heartwarming and entertaining performance as a young Greek woman torn between the constraints and traditions of her family and her desire to allow her love and her passion for the man she loves to win the day. The actors who portray the various members of her extended Greek family portray their individual characters very well and manage to make the very best of what is an uninspiring and weak script. The whole style and format of the movie is also of high qualityThe script, by contrast, is a disappointment. The content of the script leaves the majority of the characters appear wooden and devoid of a personality. The interaction between Ian and the extended Greek family is reduced to predictable clichés and the majority of the humor that is portrayed is repetitive, predictable and surprisingly hard to find during quite a lot of the movie. The characters seem to be under developed in a show where it its essential for at least the main characters to have some personality. The whole storyline appears rushed and slightly confused at times`My Big Fat Greek Wedding' was still entertaining and enjoyable and probably still worth viewing. But it could have been a whole lot better with the right script  "},{"Title":"Typical","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everything is race driven.  Particularly in western societies and in the media.  All major movie companies and even more many left wing funded independent film companies are race or gender driven.  This is particularly true in humor.  The purpose of films such as this is to denigrate a European culture.  This is done over and over again in context after context.  The only culture that is not belittled is African American with such films as Malcolm X and many Spike Lee and other black films which praise and even use the most complimentary camera tones to build up his actors.This attempt to take down anything at all European  is even the root of comedies such as Austin Powers while buildig up anything African.  The whole culture revolves around this and it is so sad.  Further, 30 years of this has done nothing to improve things other than make so many cynical people. Wedding is just another.  "},{"Title":"Put some Windax on!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I happened to see this movie by mere accident. The title was a little weird I thought and so I wasn't quite sure what to expect. I went in without having read anything about it and I came out thoroughly pleased and amused. This movie wants to be funny and entertaining and it certainly succeeds. Granted, the story is plain enough but it is the interaction between the characters that make this work.Having been to Greece a number of times I happen to like that culture and the climate there. When the movie begins we hear Greek music and see a dark and rainy night in Chicago. Strange stuff, it doesn't fit together, yet. Then we see two people in a car stopping at a traffic sign. One the father, the other the daughter. Both Greek. You should get married, you are starting to look ... old! the father tells the daughter. From there on it is clear where this will lead. We don't mind knowing what will happen, it's just refreshing to watch those characters and watch as the daughter tries to break lose from her predefined path, succeeds and when she finally even dates a guy, we again know what's going to happen and again it's fun to watch.Is he Greek? No. Is he good? We don't know! Because no one talks to us about nothing any more! A father loses control and a daughter gains a husband AND a house... next door.The only problem one might have with this movie is if you take it as a defamation of the Greek people per se. You mustn't. I do not think any Greek would be offended by this movie, yet there may always be one, at least I am positive that it is not the movie's nor the directors intention to do so.I watched it in the light of a lighthearted comedy, suitable for the whole family and as such it was quite entertaining and funny and next time you go to a Greek restaurant you'll probably be smiling, thinking of Dancing Zorbas (incidentally there's one near my place called Apollo and it too has all the Greek columns and statues at the entrance).8/10Ihad "}{"Title":"I Really Liked This Movie","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was unsure of whether to go see this movie because of all the hype.  I often don't like the highly hyped movies that everyone else likes... but I went to see it anyways and was pleasantly surprised.   Nia was very sweet and cute as Toula.   I thought she played the part very well and I'd definitely like to see her in more movies.   John Corbett was very hot as Ian.  I love his hair. It was wonderful to see Ian Gomez again.   I've missed him since Felicity ended.   I thought everyone did a great job performing in this film.  I laughed a lot and found the film to be heartwarming and entertaining.  I'd give this movie an 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"A simple entertaining movie","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That movie is very pure. It has only pure laughing, pure entertaining, a pure love and pure people in it. It was just a moment from Greek life. The acting was absolutely OK.I really enjoyed it. It was really independent. "},{"Title":"I'm going to need therapy before going to the cinema again","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Looking through the comments posted on this film, I am left wondering if I was really watching the same movie...Once an hour and a half of excruciating boredom had gone by I grabbed my coat and left without even waiting for the lights to come back on. I'm not the sort of person who leaves the cinema in the middle of the film (unless I need the toilet), but I was seriously tempted to do so.The only thing that prevented me from sleeping during the movie was the noise generated by the stereotypical representation of a Greek family.There was no story. No twists. No characters that I felt anything but distaste for. No jokes (apart from one slapstick moment with a pair of headphones - not really justification for calling it a Romantic-Comedy).I can honestly say that this movie has destroyed what little faith I had remaining in the American film industry. If this is the best that Hollywood can do in this genre, then they don't stand a chance against France (Amelia), England (Four Weddings and a Funeral), and many other upcoming clever filmmakers who don't work for Hollywood.Thank goodness The Two Towers is in the cinema at the moment, or else I might never want to go to there ever again. "},{"Title":"I want my two hours back","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason this movie did well was because its release timing was perfect, all alone in the romantic comedy genre. This movie was a Big Fat Disappointment for me. The leading lady was neither pretty or sexually attractive, and the spark between the bride and groom was phoney, flawed, and unbelievable. Plotless, repetitive gags, simpering characters, awful lighting and direction. Two thumbs and two big toes down. "},{"Title":"Lacks Post-Modernism","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know about everyone else, but growing up it was pointed out to me quite clearly that making fun of ethnicities via stereotypes was extremely rude and unacceptable behavior.  Too often some desperate, unoriginal people (usually stand-up comics) use the waiver inherent in their personally belonging to a specific ethinic group as a license to get around this (positive) social restriction to get easy laughs in a way that no one else on the bill can use to compete with them.  This is exactly what Big Fat does.This movie is TERRIBLE, wallowing for 90 minutes in a trough of anachronistic, uber-kitchy, ethnic-based humor -- which more often than not falls flat, regardless of its CRINGING use of pat Greek portrayals. Ahhh, I am an ethnic-a person-a...and-I'm-a-sooo-seeemple.  (And this is leaving out the million other cliches in the project, most notably the old standby I was unloved until I took off my glasses and got a makeover seen in other such brilliant contexts as The Mirror with Two Faces.)For years, ethnic humor has only been (sometimes) funny and acceptable when presented in an ironic context ie, when the film has been sophisticated enough to wink at the audience, acknowledging that both it and the crowd realize that ethnic humor is a no-no, and that therefore the filmmakers are intentionally being naughty by crossig the line (ie Southpark, etc...)My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a complete train wreck.  Little old ladies across the country may like it; and producers Tom Hanks and his wife may be promoting the heck out of it, but the emperor has no clothes in this case.  "},{"Title":"Decent but it's a bit strained","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just sat down and watched it, after downloading it for my mom (Actually yes thats a true excuse))Generally a decent movie, I laughed a few times, but thats about it. Good points where the actors, altogether a good performance from everyone. But the movie itself felt like an american copy of the UK movie Bend it like Beckham or the Swedish movie Jalla JallaGirl of __Insert origin here___ wants to do something that has never been done or is not endorsed by the familly, or marry someone of __Insert different origin here___ . Good idea from whoever got it first, but the difference is that while Bend it like backham & Jalla Jalla gets the point thru, and makes me laugh like mad, My Big Fat Greek Wedding feels strained & overdone.If you Take Those movies, add a bit of Bridget Jones Diary put it in a mixer with decent actors, Wallaa! you should have a awsome movie, but somehow this one just comes out as ok .I give it 5* out of 10* Worth watching as a rental or if you download it but I wouldn't waste cash on the cinema. "},{"Title":"Insane!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How is it that I can relate to this movie so well???  Being from England and living in America makes me realize how lucky I am -- if this movie is a true portrayal of how Greek families are -- then it just so seems that my family is the same!My Big Fat Greek Wedding...gosh!  I didn't know what to expect -- heard so many good things about the movie, but at the start it would appear that the movie wouldn't live up to my expectations after hearing friends rave about it!  But a love story unfolds and the true meaning of family shines in this movie, although sometimes the family thing appears a bit O.T.T, but that added to the comical side of the movie!My partner said it was a bit of a chick flick -- I do agree, but I loved the movie, although the beginning was a bit deceiving!  It was all in all a GREAT MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Feature or Documentary?","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much - literally laughed and cried! Being Italian (i.e. not quite Greek) and first generation Australian (i.e. not quite American), I could identify with the main character very much. So it is with clear insight that I make a comparison between this film and a documentary. Much like Monsoon Wedding, this film celebrates the chaos and love in a family in which one their daughters is to be married. Being a migrant family, though, it has the added factor of cultural comparisons, and the pressures on each generation to follow tradition, whilst still satisfying the need to take advantage of new oportunities and make progress. A most enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Big Fat Greek Laughs","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a hilarious movie. It's no surprise to me that they're making a sitcom out of it, and as long as they don't ruin it, I'm alright with it. The movie itself has topped the box office for months, and that, too, is no surprise. Romantic comedies have never been that good.I've never seen Nia Vardalos' talents before, but she pulled off an excellent performance. Michael Constantine made a great European father, and was responsible for a large percentage of laughs. Lainie Kazan also played a very funny character. John Corbett also deserves praise. N'Sync's Joey Fatone surprised me with his ability to act.All in all, My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a hilarious, accurate, fun movie that everyone could enjoy. I look forward to the sitcom. 10/10. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen this gem yet, what are you waiting for?","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING  <8>  Romantic Comedy Nia Vardalos, Michael Constantine   Dir Joel ZwickThis is the movie that wouldn't die! It's been in theaters since April2002 -- that has to set a record. It's a low-budget film thatbeautifully and lovingly captures the idiosyncrasies of an entirefamily and its friends. If you haven't seen GREEK WEDDING yet,what are you waiting for?  "}{"Title":"Entertaining and not pretending, maybe a classic in the future","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Entertaining movie , makes fun of stupid 0cents-worth racist innuendos like  He/she is not from my country,so he/she sux and other cliches, but in a relaxed way that doesn't start any useless racism debate. Very realistic, yet with a spark of fantasy that lets you fly over too much reality in a movie problems. Goes straight to one good point , sometimes problems are only as big as you see them. Recommended to couples experiencing his-family vs her-family troubles because it offers a different point of view of the whole mess, _your_ and your lover's one  Realistically romantic is my one-liner for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my wife mentioned this movie, I really didn't want to see it. However, the opening credits showed the Playtone label from That Thing You Do, another Hanks vehicle, and I suddenly had hope.  As it turns out, this is one of the most fun films I have ever seen.  And sometimes it's fine for movies to just be fun.I've read some pretty negative remarks here about this film, but frankly, the laughter in the theater was so loud, I sometimes had trouble hearing the next line.  And everyone I know that has seen it enjoyed it as well, so the film makers must have done something right.If you enjoy pure feel good movies, this one is a must see. "},{"Title":"Cute but...","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Cute movie but not living up to my expectations. I don't really understand the hype.    The jokes are repeated along the movie, and while funny at the beginning, you are expenting something more until the movie ends. Rent it on video at most. "},{"Title":"Greek Greek Greek","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very funny movie, My Big Fat Greek Wedding captures many habits and customs of the Greek American community in a  set of hilarious events. The movie is both pro-Greek and pro-American celebrating cultural diversity in the US and the Greek culture at the same time. Sorry, Europeans you may be displeased but one can find the best Greek food in Chicago and New York rather than Europe! One should not expect to find any deep analysis on the Greek culture in this movie. Every custom or habit is treated superficially but the point is made. When you visit a Greek family you hear a lot of people talking loudly and at the same time, offering you loads of well cooked food. Some of them may hate Turks as well, at least only in a superficial way. But these people wouldn't hurt anyone. Being a little familiar with the customs of the Greeks and other ethnic communities  myself I found this movie amusing and refreshing. Kudos to the makers.   "},{"Title":"An ethnic laugh riot","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is a rarity for me to take my parents advice on a movie. However, this time I listened and it was well worth it. While my family is Polish and Slovak, this movie could have been written about them. There in lies the appeal of My Big Fat Wedding. The family may have been Greek, it could have been any ethnic group. Hoping Hollywood will return to making movies that can be enjoyed by the entire family, as they did before the mid-1960s, instead of making movies that shove their views and morals down the throats of America, such as Gay Marriage or the purity of heart of abortion. Sadly, the screenwriter and actress hasn't been able to repeat her success, but at least we got to enjoy this fine movie. Unfortunately, the joy of the movie was not able to be translated to the small screen. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Zero of a movie...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After all the hype surrounding this movie, I have to say the reality was more than a little disappointing. I'd sat down expecting the funniest film since...well...ever. Instead I got a mildly amusing movie with an occasional guffaw moment thrown in for good measure.In reality, though the movie could never live up to its hype. Or maybe I just don't find racial stereotyping particularly funny. And how many times can you laugh at the Windex joke, or the this word has a Greek origin line?In fact, I found myself wondering why, if this family was SO Greek, and loved the Greek culture SO much, why they weren't living in Greece.The funniest part of this film, for me, were the opening scenes, with the narrative talk-over. After that, it was amusing, but little more than a harmless feel-good movie that left me feeling like there should've been more to it due to the hype. "},{"Title":"A caricature of the Greek-American","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a caricature of the Greek-American family, something not attempted before by Hollywood. The sequence of events, the characters and the direction stand well overall. Here one finds amassed many traits from real life situations in Greek-American families. Some oversimplifications and exaggerations are justified due to the comic nature of the film. One has to take into consideration that the film is portraying Greek-Americans through the eyes of a second generation Greek and this is perhaps the reason why it doesn't get much to the real psyche of the first generation Greeks in the movie. Weak point must be the use of actors who thought that by playing out an Italian-American or a Jewish-American would serve perfectly for the Greek-American accent. Good entertainment overall. "},{"Title":"Wow, a movie with a heart in 2002! Who'd have thought?","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This isn't great art, but it is, dare I say it, sweet. Its gentle humor and earnestness win almost everyone over. I had an advantage, though. I know a couple of Greek families and could cast each friend with an corresponding role in the movie as it played. No culture has a monopoly on quirks, but it takes a great story teller to point them out without crossing the line into stereotype. If it ever leaves theaters, I'll buy the DVD in a heartbeat.Having said all that, I understand that it's being developed as a TV sitcom for the 2003 season. As much as I enjoyed the film, I don't look forward to this at all. TV has a way of sucking the life and originality out of good movies, only to discard them when they're mere caricatures of the originals. "},{"Title":"Lovable","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I see tha I wasn't the only one who found this movie lovely.Some people say that it is not realistic but I beg to differ.I come from a loud big family, even though I am the only child I have a lot of relatives. The part that is one of the most humorest was when Ian met Toula's whole family for the first time...my step dad, who came from a family like Ian's looked like how Ian did. I am so glad John Corbett is back on the screen.  I loved him in Northern Exposure.He s just a really good looking guy. Nia Vardolos is funny as Toula who is really playing herself but she has good comic timing. I hope the tv show is as good as the movie. "},{"Title":"Cute, but not worth all the hype","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding while cute is not worthy of the hype.  It starts out well.  The repeating of the same jokes through the entire movie was a bit much as with the Windex and the origin of words jokes.  At times the movie moved to slowly.   "}{"Title":"One thing you gotta say, the title gets right to the point!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No spoilers here...just heaps of well-intentioned racism!If you enjoyed the Aussie flick THE WOG BOY, chances are you'll probably lap this up. Me? I'm so racist I have to think twice about sweet and sour pork! Ok, so a wouldn't-attract-a-second-glance Greek girl ensnares her American dream guy and sets out to Greekify him before the wedding. Well ain't that just the funniest thing you ever heard?  Its not? well I agree - but hey, I have an excuse...my non-Greek but infinitely more racially diplomatic girlfriend dragged me to see this minor hit which shock - horror is midway to becoming an Aussie sitcom, believe it or not!I have no interest in modern Greeks...I'm more than happy to see them milling around the Acropolis but I don't want 'Grecianicity' shoved down even my peripheral vision. I'm the ONLY person I know thought ZORBA THE GREEK was one of the most boring films in history! (Others include THE ENGLISH PATIENT and BRIDGET JONES DIARY if you're interested!)If i were to be charitable (not a trait I am known for) I might  comment that MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING is watchable enough, even amusing at certain points but if I was to be realistic with myself I would have to say Who wants to look over the fence and check-out some rather downmarket neighbors following the most mundane of storylines?Ok....get those emails going? "},{"Title":"Compared to some other Comedies this year its a Masterpiece, But thats not saying much","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not funny at all, I dont know why it makes so much money and so many people. Now comared to some other comedies this year, like MIB 2, Austin Powers 3(At First I thought AP3 was ok now i really dont like it)and Analyze That, it may be considered good. But this is totally unoriginal like those but at least its got some class. 6 out of 10. Adults will like this better than teenagers. "},{"Title":"Predictable and sometimes corny but also charming and funny.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   This is one of those movies that is enjoyable at the time but does not exactly linger in your memory. One of the reasons is the plot, which is basically the same Cinderella story that has been reworked in countless films. &#145;My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is the story of Toula Portokoulos (Nia Vardalos), a frumpy Greek ugly duckling who meets her Prince Charming (John Corbett as an English teacher, who are often romanticised in movies. I'm still waiting for the sensitive, sexy Calculus teacher), turns into a swan and gets a life. Eventually she decides to marry her man. The problem is, her family are quite traditional and they have issues with the role of women in the family and her marrying a non-Greek. It's a predictable, unoriginal plot and the movie is as subtle as a brass band. However what saves it from being just a routine romantic comedy are the lively performances from the Greek actors and the oddball supporting characters, particular Toula's hidebound father, a man who can trace the origin of any word back to Greek (even kimono) and who believes he is the head of the household (his wife says that may be so, but she is the neck &#150; she tells the head where to move). It is a funny movie and, if you don't go in expecting anything great, you'll get a lot of laughs out of it.  6 1/2/ 10  "},{"Title":"It flows...","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had been waiting to see this movie after hearing so many great reviews about it, finally my whole family decided to see it. It was hilarious right from the start as we follow Toula and Ian's (Nia Vardalos and John Corbett)relationship and wedding plans involving Toula's Greek family.I think many cultures can relate to this story, as each has their own ideas about family and tradition. I felt that everyone in movie was fantastic, and I recommend it for anyone who wants a good laugh and maybe for their own families to have a wake up call!  "},{"Title":"A light hearted, if not so in depth look at cultural clash relationships","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is somewhat funny, poking fun at many of the traditional cultures that first generationers hold on so tightly.  Everyone who is not native to the US will somehow relate to the movie.  But the film does not go much below the poking fun at the surface to explore anything else.  Looking at the background of the movie, it could be easily explained since the story comes from a comedian's routine on her being Greek American.  Probably alot of one liners, material more suited for sitcoms. "},{"Title":"An excellent date movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At first, I thought this would be just another dumb, cliche-ridden chick flick, especially after one of our local movie critics panned it.  How wrong I was!This movie is a joyous celebration of life, love, family, food, and fun.  Of course, it's not totally original.  And it could be about nearly any large traditional family, whatever its ethnic makeup.  But it's exceptionally well written, directed, and performed.  Also, it's devoid of explicit sex, nudity, violence, or perversion.  Definitely an excellent movie for a date, or for a quiet evening at home with the family.  Finally, it's a fine appetizer before having a traditional Greek dinner.If you enjoyed My Big Fat Greek Wedding, check out Zorba the Greek.  It's a classic film starring the late Anthony Quinn. "},{"Title":"there is truly something in MBFGW one for everyone","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is easily one of the most enjoyable times at the movies so far this year. MBFGW never allows itself to divulge into the seriousness of its situation. We are never left dangling in a realm of uneasiness or boredom. Instead we are taken on a comical journey of a woman's fight to shape her own life. Her brother puts it best when he says don't let the past dictate who you are, but let it be a part of who you are going to be. This is about as serious as the movie gets as the rest of it takes a lighter approach to Toula's romance and wedding.This is so reminiscent of Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding because of the surface similarities of the two families in focus. The Portokalos in MBFGW are a huge family who take interest in and care for each other's lives up to the very finest detail. Toula's father is the true star of this movie. Michael Constantine plays the most satirical character of the whole lot. His over the top portrayal of a traditional Greek father is classic. Gus (Toula's father) has little insane character traits showing everyone how every English word has its root in Greek, insisting that Windex is the cure for every ailment, and living in a Parthenon-like house with the Greek flag on the garage door.The rest of the cast is good, especially the rest of the stereotypical Greek family of aunts, uncles, cousins, etc. Our lovely couple of Toula and Ian are also perfect; they are two normal average looking people who fall in love through a series of events. They give this movie a certain believability that almost all romance stories lack. Still, no one person can be commended for the strength of this movie. The story is straightforward, but its execution is what makes this a big triumph. We get to know Toula's entire family in the short length of MBFGW without being bogged down with too many details.I cannot say enough about this movie, but it is hard to talk about a movie like this more without getting redundant. I highly recommend MBFGW to people of any age, there is truly something in this one for everyone. "},{"Title":"This is why I think My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a great movie.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I believe that My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a good film because it captures the uniqueness of the character but also allows viewers to relate to the main character.  I personally felt like I could relate to the character, despite the fact that we are from completely different cultures.  The charater Toula, was portrayed very realistically but did not steer away from the comic scene.  One very specific scene would be when her brother would tell her fiance how to say some frazes in Greek.  Of course, since her fiance was not Greek, he bought it and said the frazes, assuming they were innocent lines.  To his amazement, he was saying other frazes.  My point with this is, you could see people doing this in many different cultures, and I felt this added to the movie a sence of connection with the viewers. Even when there was a difference in culture, you could still relate to the character.  She still wanted to be independent and learn to accept herself. We all need to learn that regardless of our background.  My final insignificant note would be that I loved the portrayal of the Greek Orthodox Church.  I happened to be Orthodox too and I felt that the movie did a very good job making a realistic portrayal of Orthodoxy without pushing it in people's faces.  One thing that movies often do when they put religian in it is they tend to either unrealistically prtray religian or have a bias of the religian (making the religian standing in people's faces or too behind the scenes, leaving viewers with a false sence of the religian).  I don't feel that this movie did this.  So for what the movie was worth, it was great! I want to see it again! "},{"Title":"What is Ms. Vardalos doing in this dopey movie?","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is contrived and overblown. The heroine is a very good actress, but her boyfriend is a cardboard figure. I can't imagine anyone more boring than this guy. And his association with her doesn't lead to him become any more interesting as the film progresses.Her Greek family is so stereotyped, they mostly all come off as idiots. Real humor needs to be based on the humanity of the characters. The only human one in the bunch, besides the daughter, is her mother (played by Lainie Kazan). The father is a stereotyped, nondimensional nut case, and the aunt (I forget her name but she's from SCTV) was also portrayed as a stereotyped nut.I wanted to walk out, but kept my seat hoping things would improve (e.g., that she would see what a boring loser her fiance was, and go find herself a nice, passionate Greek boyfriend). Yawwwn............  "},{"Title":"It's Michael Constantine's World--We just live in it","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For my money, this flick trumps The Royal Tennebaums, which was sort of the same kind of riot of difficult and strange characters drawn together as they play out a archetypal stretch of their lives.Michael Constantine is given the role of his lifetime here, the role he was born to play, which he and he alone could have pulled off quite like this. Think of anybody else as the Godfather, besides Brando, or anyone besides Anthony Quinn as Zorba. --Can't do it. Same here. At Oscar time, I hope Constantine is rewarded for this incredible masterpiece of character acting, and acting period. He lifted the movie from okay to interesting-to-think-of-it-every-day-for-a-year marvelous. "}{"Title":"Nice Little Movie","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who hasn't seen this movie yet? Not too many I presume, and once it goes to video and DVD you'll be hard pressed to find anyone who hasn't, at least in America. So, what's left to be said about this quintessential 'word of mouth' movie? Not much, really. It's as achingly cute and wholesome as reported. A movie to take Grandma to, and still enjoy yourself. (The kids could get bored to tears, though).  My only comment is this Why don't other independent films receive the patience accorded to My Big Fat Greek Wedding? It took about three months for the good word about the film to get out on the street. I presume that there must be other, equally well made independent films out there at any given time. But these seem to be given only two or three weeks to make it theatrically, then its off to DVD-land or the Sundance Channel. From what I understand, it wasn't even the distributors who pushed this movie, but Greek-American organizations, notably local Greek Orthodox churches. It makes you wonder what the distributors are thinking.  "},{"Title":"Not worth the fuss...","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is still confusing me why people are continuing to give this movie such great reviews. My friend was ecstatic about seeing it. I thought it was a stereotypical and predictable movie with mild laughter. Hardly believable. I don't think that real Greek-Americans are so self-absorbed in their own lives and culture even. You would like to think that the Greek-Americans in this movie would want to be shown as real people who embrace their current country and their heritages at the same time. This just stereotypes that all people from Greek desendence only speak to Greek people, only eat Greek food, only talk about Greece, etc. That really annoyed me about this. And I have trouble believing that a 30 year old woman is so immature that she can't even leave her house would fall in love with a good-looking, outgoing guy.  I do have to admit, though, that I laughed at the parts with the little old Grandma. She was cool. Overall, I would not recommend this movie unless you want to make humans look like lovers of tasteless film.  "},{"Title":"Just a good movie, nothing more... and nothing less!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding *** (out of five) by Joel Zwick with Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Michael Constantine and a good ensemble.So, this is the cinderella story of the year, in and out of the screen... the word-of-mouth phenomenom that has stormed America and put itself as the outsider for a Best Picture nod.I really can understand that the movie has survived the maelstrom of the summer box-office, as its appeal is almost universal... but what I really can't understand is... why 200 million?OK... it's a just good movie, with good performances (Michael Constantine and Nia Vardalos as standouts, if there's really any in a perfect ensemble), some good laughs, but NOTHING we haven't seen before and better.I'm Spanish, and I can assure you that changing some details, this could have been My Big Fat Spanish Wedding... or My Big Fat Arab Wedding (as I was born in a city whose half population is muslim)... or whatever...Actually, the movie has two parts first we get to the required cinderella story that fuels the introduction of the characters... when at the middle of the movie we get to the wedding plot itself, I was too much reminded of the excellence of The Wedding Banquet, one of Ang Lee's masterpieces and that Nia Vardalos obviously has not only seen but loved.Vardalos has written a good screenplay with plenty of laughs here and there and a good sense of pacing and what's funny. Kudos to her, but one thing is to write a good screenplay, avoiding plagiarism and another is to avoid falling into common places (even if you disguise them with the blue and white colors of the Greek flag)... Joel Zwick directs just correctly and without a defined personality this material that in other hands - Ang Lee, Paul J. Hogan - could have result in a very good movie... but instead we have a merry hour and a half of tender - not sappy, thanks God - cultural clash and an ode to the mediterranean sense of family.At the performances, we have the explanation of the movie's success... we haven't here the Oscar worthy showy roles that one could expect given the buzz, but the perfect definition of comedic timing in an ensemble piece. Nia Vardalos obviously gets the more screen time, as John Corbett and Michael Constantine become the two main male pressences that divide Vardalos' character development... but it wouldn't be fair to highlight them as the movie belongs to the whole cast. I foresee a well deserved Best Ensemble nomination at the Screen Actors Guild...However, Miss Vardalos may score a double nod at the Oscars... Best Actress and Best Adapted Screenplay. As good as she is at both categories, I think that she doesn't really deserve any of these nods... Same can also be said for Michael Constantine's performance... he's really good, but not Oscar worthy, even thought that this one is a golden chance to give him some well-deserved recognition (bearing in mind that he may never be honored with a life-time achievement Oscar).But what I feel is the strongest point (Ensemble aside) of the movie is that beautiful and merry greek score that has been seriously overlooked by oscar-watchers. The music really gives the mood of the movie in those transitions from one sequence to another and keeps the film alive. If the year isn't much strange, this music could make company to Signs' at the Best Score final quintet of the year.To summarize, a good movie whose best recognition is the huge box-office success it has scored, and that really doesn't need to go beyond that. It isn't by far, one of the year's best, but being just a good movie is enough in my opinion. Not many movies can claim to be one.  "},{"Title":"A Nice 90 Minutes","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding was based on Nia Vardalos' one woman comedy act. It is no wonder it plays like a stand-up routine. The characters are exaggerated much like a stand-up comedian could do. Of course Nia feels like the only normal one in the family. As if she has somehow dodged the enculturation process like the rest of her family. If you can accept the characters for that and embrace them, then My Big Fat Greek Wedding is an enjoyable film. The format is not new and there is not much substance to the story. However, the characters are loveable, which makes it easier to laugh. I just saw this recently so it was hard to watch it without taking in account all the hype it has received. I don't know if it as worthy as the hype suggests, but it's definitely a fun movie. At little over ninety minutes, it pulls you in but doesn't stay long enough to try your patience. It introduces you to the family instead of making you feel as though you live with them.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"pure hearted film","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Fat Greek Wedding is one of those anomalies that seem to come out of nowhere.  There are no large name actors to be seen (though there are a few familiar faces).  It has a simple script and plot.  No strong cursing, no overt sex scenes.  The writing and acting are at times a little flat, and the editing could be a little tighter.  Despite all this, the film works beautifully, due to the fact that it is so PURE.  It's hard to explain.  The gags and jokes are simple, but they are genuinely funny. Even fairly minor characters manage stand out from one another and have their own identities that connect with the audience, and remain true to themselves throughout.  You can tell they are based on real people, and the script came from the experiences of a person who lived in the world portrayed. Not every scene was over-analyzed by Hollywood movie execs trying to push a formulaic movie with cut and paste supporting characters starring the latest leading lady.  It's refreshing, and that's what makes it so special.  This movie manages to get it just right in tone and heart, so that you end up just having a good time. "},{"Title":"Amusing, but not hilarious","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why did this movie perform so well in the States? It must be a culture difference. I smiled a couple of times during the film, but I was not roaring with laughter. Check it out on video/dvd on a dull evening, but it's not absolutely necessary to see it in the cinema. In Europe it will probably not be as successful. Are we to close to Greece to see the funny side of all this? "},{"Title":"it worked because it was so true to life","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  its like how when we did english lit our teacher said always write what you know (little women anyone?) thats why this film was such a success...the accuracy. its mine and every other greek girls life story.the windex,the extended family...the only thing that stumped me was the fact that the mother had never seen a bunt cake before.when i went to see this at the cinema...the place was as packed as harry p, gladiator,etc...but what was different was that it was all of ethnic minoritites greeks italians bengalis etc that had gone to see it. but do you know why i think it made so much money?........its because all the old greek ladies that never leave home unless its for church actually left the house to see this! and being greek word travels fast...every time a relative comes round the starting conversation piece was this movie until finally you were a family outcast if you hadnt seen it..and then theres the whole greek hot blooded jealousy thing...so there you go....it profited on us poor greeks and our neuroses! "},{"Title":"I recommend this.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fun movie, keeps your attention without violence, drugs or sex.  Men and women as well as teens ought to have a good time watching this.  Somewhat quirky, but believable in an offhanded way.  Go see it, take your main squeeze, and have a great time. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a great movie.  What makes it spectacular is that it is true, which makes more humor of the humor and the movie.  It is comically spectacular, I could barely get a breath in at times.  Don't get me wrong, it is no Austin Powers... I say this movie is great for any age.  But to really appreciate the full blow of the movie, the late teens or older seem to be a proper crowd. It is chock full of cultural humor and absolutely tons of fun.  I voted it an 8, because although it is a 10 for what it is, it is no Lord of The Rings, no The COlor Purple, if you catch my drift. Go see it, it is hilarious and will get you thinking about your Windex! "},{"Title":"Nice movie but...","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *May contain spoilers* *may contain spoilers*The bottom line is that My big Fat Greek Wedding is a nice movie. Yes I laughed and fairly enjoyed myself but its success has other explanations because if I want to be fair and speaking in cinematic terms, the movie is not so great. The script is thin and can hardly hold the whole film on its shoulders. The characters are one dimensional, nothing more than a caricature, with no development. To be honest the whole thing looks like a exercise that you give for a student during its studies for a degree in cinema. So why or how such a movie has grossed so far around 200 hundred million Dollars? The answer lie in the following elements-1. The movie appeal to a lot of people. You can change the word Greek to Italian, Spanish, Chinese, Jewish or anything you want and it will still be the same movie. What more, anyone who watch the movie can recognize a familiar face. Meaning that characters can be replaced by someone we know. For exampleThe father is just like my father or I have an aunt just like that or I was in a similar wedding. By now you got the idea.2. I believe that this is one of the first movie that set the Greek immigrants as its center stage. We have seen a lot of films about the others ethnic groups, so this is new. That makes the film a more like an anthropological experience than anything else.3. This is quite a conservative film. Yes the heroine break the rules in order to get what she want but yet she choose to get married in the Greek traditional way to satisfy her father(she also convince her fiance to be baptized, to satisfy her father). In the end she confirms the important of cultural heritage and family values. Such a message appeals to the most conservative viewer.4. The fairy-tale element. The whole film is build as a fairy-tale. There is nothing more charming than a fairy-tale, especially if the fairy-tale ends with an happy ending. That was it. You can go to the film. You will probably enjoy it. As I said it is a nice movie.It is not the masterpiece everyone(or almost everyone)makes of it and I think no matter how you look at it it's much overrated. I hear some people have seen the movie more than once. For me once was enough. "}{"Title":"Her Big Fat Hollywood Paycheck","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A mildly amusing and harmless, if eminently predictable, movie, but scarcely original.  The fact that My Big Fat Greek Wedding will gross over $200 million suggests that any reasonable alternative to the mindnumbingly bleak garbage consistently generated by the major Hollywood studios will find an eager and willing audience among the movie-going public.  As many of the previous comments attest, this tale of a mis-matched bethrothal could easily have been written as almost any ethnic group (Italian, Jewish, Chinese, Bengali, and presumably, even White Anglo-Saxon Protestants).  The humor drives from the tightly knit, patriarchal ethnic family's resistence to the 30 year-old spinster's non-ethnic fiance.  Much of it, however, like most of the story, is a bit forced.Toula's rather magical and sudden transformation to an outgoing person atease with a male caller of whom she had been previously terrified is a bit odd, and her suitor's attraction to her is never fully explained.  The ethnic humor is heaped on, but I suspect that any family running a restaurant (even a Greek restaurant) would know what a bundt cake was, and that no educated and professional people such as the fiance's parents would mistake a Guatamalan housekeeper for Greek housekeeper.The whole story, as is well-known by now, is derived from a one-woman show by a Greek-American woman which caught the eye of Tom Hanks' wife and thus was able to be made into a movie.  It's all a bit overblown, but in the end she's laughing all the way to the bank and planning for the TV sit-com, while the big name stars collect millions for box-office bombs, and the big studios keep churning them out. (This movie represents $200 million less spent on such alternative cinematic gems as Wind Talkers or Harrison Ford's Russian submarine story). For the Hollywood establishment, it's a well-deserved big fat black eye. "},{"Title":"Formulaic and Stereotypical","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film makers basically copied and pasted out of 100s of other bad formula romances.  Are there no normal Greek people other than the main character?  Is she some how better than everyone else?  If I was Greek I would be extremely outraged by this movie.  As a film lover I am extremely outraged by this movie's financial success.  Its been said before, but the two of them really have no basis for their relationship.  Sure its possible to fall in love with some one upon the first meeting.  But for a movie that is called realistic, why didn't they show us their relationship growing?  It boiled down to  My life is dull and I like your quirky family - My life is dull and I hate my quirky family - Lets get married.  There is actually better programming on Lifetime. "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. I came out of the theater the first time I saw it and knew I had to see it again.  Besides being one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, it is warm and touching and absolutely delightful.  This is indeed a movie not to be missed.   "},{"Title":"goody- goody gumdrops","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh please- Ok, it was mildly amusing, but I just couldn't get over the matching of Nia and Corbin- please, like that would ever happen in real life. Not knocking Nia, but Corbin is gorgeous!!!!!I just couldnt get over it- plus it wasnt that funny- a few laughs, but not rolling with laughter like ALL my friends told me. Please America, stop making such a big deal!! "},{"Title":"Fine, but I don't see the big deal.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I finally folded and saw this with my girlfriend this weekend. I'm not usually someone who does what the crowd does but I relented and checked it out. I was definitely entertained but it seemed that more than half of the audience were laughing and having a good time because they thought they ought to. With all the press this movie has received I honestly expected more. I did however enjoy myself so I would recommend this to anyone who wants to have an enjoyable evening but if you are going in believing all the hype, you will be sadly disappointed. I'm all for success for anyone who is able to achieve it but i think this one should be put into the 'fluke' and 'bandwagon' category. Lightning has apparently struck this movie, but there are a slew of other romantic comedies I have enjoyed more. "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Nia Vardalos tour de force, more about courtship with My Non-Greek Boyfriend than a wedding per se.  Vardalos plays frumpy Greek who meets the love of her life and turns things around (or vice versa) despite expected family complications.  Very cute love story, all done before in one way or another with some ethnic group but pleasant nonetheless.  Nia's delayed, cross-eyed responses (and often non-responses) to boyfriend, particularly early on, are effective and very endearing.  Similar in concept but not sombre tone to early Hanks Each Time We Say Goodye.  Just a nice, solid little romance. "},{"Title":"Causing a commotion","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hardly ever have I witnessed a commotion in a movie theatre. It is ok if your partner cries or laughs out loud, but you can suspect that the film is causing a commotion when virtually everybody around is laughing really loud around you. This magic took place while watching My Big Fat Greek Wedding.The movie is not flawless. The screenplay drops sequences of comic situations over the audience without focusing much - the main point is to laugh. The screenplay may fail sometimes but the overall comic feeling stays, and this is what counts.  "},{"Title":"Noisy and chaotic does not a comedy make","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a celebration of the Greek family and it is successful in doing this. But while watching a large family, full of quirky characters, with noisy and chaotic interactions, can be enjoyable, amusing, and even funny at times, it does not, in itself, make for much of a comedy.The main problem is a lack of dramatic tension. There is a small amount in the transformation of Toula from restaurant drudge to attractive travel agent, which did involve a funny scene, but that piece of comedy was soon over. Toula and Ian got on well from the beginning. This is more natural and original than the standard romantic comedy, where girl meets boy, they either hate each other at first sight or for some other reason can't be together, and at the very end they manage to get together after all. This is completely unoriginal, but, and I cringe to write this, it does create some dramatic tension which can let the comedy work.Ian is always accepting of Toula's Greek heritage, so there is only a small amount of humour in his being an outsider. By the time Toula's father finds out about Ian, the couple's relationship is solid, so there is minimal opportunity for conflict and the development of comedy. There is some comedy in the contrast between Toula's and Ian's families, but his parents are peripheral to the story, so the amount of humour that could be generated was minor.The film is a portrayal of a large, close-knit, family, for the audience to enjoy and laugh at. But there is limited humour in the plot, or even the two main characters, and so ultimately it is limited in its success as a comedy. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone from am ethnic family should be able to relate to this movie.  If your family is more like the groom's, chances are you won't/didn't get it. I think the buzz surrounding this movie is completely warranted. Considering the block busters Wedding was up against (Star Wars, Spider-man, etc.), one would think this movie should have been swallowed up. Fortunately, it was quite the opposite.  Sometimes people just want to see a funny, sweet, romantic movie, not laser beams, super heroes & testosterone running rampant.  I'm glad this movie has become a hit, and I look forward to seeing more from Nia Vardalos.  She's very talented!Also, I enjoyed the little bit of That Thing You Do! thrown in for good measure.   "},{"Title":"I think I waited way too long to see this film...","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No doubt, I loved it -- I laughed out loud, I cried when her father (SPOILERS!) bought them the house, I thoroughly enjoyed myself.But after 50,000 people tell you HOW INCREDIBLY GREAT a movie is, you end up with altered expectations and I know that was true in my case.  I was expecting just a little more.  As it is, I definitely have to agree with the folks who said it lacked oomph.  "}{"Title":"A Very Funny Film, That's what it claimed to be and that's what it was","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of months ago with my wife.  I went in expecting nothing more than a funny movie and that's exactly what I got.  Too many reviewers on this site take the movie way too seriously.  From the feminists who think that it's an absolute crime to make a film where the woman isn't truly happy until she meets Mr. Right to those of Greek heritage who somehow feel insulted, some people just can't lighten up and have a good laugh.  You can't have a sense of humor if you can't laugh at yourself a little, and comedy usually involves exaggeration.  Of course most Greek families don't have a huge Greek flag painted on their garage door or dance around a lamb roasting on a spit in their front yard, but every nationality has their own little quirks which you can have some fun with.  I come from an Italian family and have seen my share of Whatsamada you jokes, and I don't mind at all.  None of the humor is malicious.---Spoiler---The plot is very linear and that's all it has to be.  The film wasn't bogged down with any attempt at seriousness; there's no big falling out between the girl and her over-protective father, and no serious problem with the Greek family's accepting the non-Greek husband-to-be.  They meet, have a romance, and get married, and all the while, funny stuff is happening around them and to them.  I laughed and laughed.  It was funny and that's it, period.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Finally a down to earth real life movie. Two thumbs up to this movie.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My big fat greek wedding was one of the cleanest real life movies. The movie was funny, and down to earth. It was a movie that anyone would love to watch. I never laughed so hard in a few parts of the movie. The acting and the story line was awesome. It is just a movie for anyone of all ages to watch. My two young nieces even saw it, and they loved it. It is worth the money to go and see the movie. You can actually compare the movie to real life. Just go watch the movie, and I promise you will love it. "},{"Title":"Excellent and Funny! Big Plus!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a smash hit! I saw it way after it came out, heard tons of comments on it and I have to agree with everyone else, this movie was spectacular! It deserves a 10 all the way! Very funny, and displays a great view of the Greek heritage! I recommend it highly! "},{"Title":"Something We Can All Relate To","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is well done in my book, because everything came together.  The script was well-written.  The perfect cast of real characters was chosen and did a wonderful job of acting.  (By the term real characters I mean that these actors/actresses were not Hollywood's flawless, but people who actually look like the rest of us.)  Also, when the mood of each scene was set, it followed through.  It was funny, serious, or celebratory where it should have been, and this is how this movie brought me to see it repeatedly in the theaters.When I say that this movie is something that we can all relate to, I mean it.  I don't mean to give away much that you don't know, but this movie is a celebration of family and ethnicity.  Everybody I talk to who has seen this movie can see at least one of their own family members in the cast of characters.  Personally, my whole family is in there, but just watch this movie; you will be amazed.  Go out and rent this movie, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Most overrated movie of the year","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What's the big deal about this movie? It's mildly amusing at its best and boring and pointless at its worst.I don't have a problem with chick flicks but I am positively stumped how anybody could think this movie is anything better than mediocre.There are movies like Punch Drunk Love, Igby Goes Down and Secretary that are 1,000,000 times better and are virtually ignored.This movie is proof how stupid the American moviegoing public is. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Terrific!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Even with EVERYONE telling me what a great movie this was, I didn't rush to see this film.  I thought it would be a stupid movie about an overweight woman looking for love and marriage.  Finally, I'd heard enough people talking about it so I watched it.  It was HILARIOUS!  I laughed out loud through the whole thing.  Whatever your perception of this movie before you see it...Just watch it.  I can't imagine there's anyone over the age of 18 that wouldn't enjoy it!    "},{"Title":"Best Comedy Of 2002","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Call it the little movie that could. A low-budget indie comedy opened in limited release back in April 2002, slowly built it's way up, and thanks to overwhelmingly positive word of mouth, is still in the top five at the time of writing this. (November 2002.) Made for a scant $5 million and responsible for bringing in almost $200 million, it has singlehandedly re-written the book on Hollywood blockbusters.Completely original and gut-wrenchingly funny, My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the best romantic comedies in years, and certainly the funniest movie of 2002. A guaranteed delight for all who see it, this movie proves that in Hollywood, bigger isn't always better.(***1/2/****) "},{"Title":"funny enough","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Worth the ticket. Very light-hearted. If you can relate to once being dumpy looking and having your folks nag you about your life and what you should do you then can relate to this film. It was funny enough and you don't have to be Greek to get it. "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a feel good film, one that we all need to see once in a while. It's well acted, the story allows for some hysterically funny moments, and the film does not get cheesy or try too hard.  I would highly recommend My Big Fat Greek Wedding to anyone looking for an entertaining film with some realistic emotion and feeling.  My Grade A "},{"Title":"Absolute delightful movie going experience","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a pleasure this movie was to see. Pure enjoyment, what a movie experience should be. One I have seen not once but three times taking others to see on the second and third times. Infectious. Simple dialogue, lots of other techniques like camera angles, music, lighting and pauses in place of words to get meanings across. A natural movie we can all relate to. A sleeper with no known great stars but a good wholesome group assembled.  "}{"Title":"Scary!!!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if there was an underlying plot to scare all non-Greeksaway from possible Greek mates, but it sure did it to me!  Ok, allkidding aside, this one is alright.  It is nowhere near as hilariousand amazing as all the hype surrounding it had led me to believe (Ichuckled at best), but it isn't horrible in any sense either.  A middleof the road romantic comedy probably best enjoyed by middle- aged women -------------------- and Greeks.  6/10.  Didn't really make me fall in love, but definitely made mehunger for Greek cuisine afterwards. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really could relate to this film since I am half Greek, and found that many of the situations presented in the film touch base on some type story from the Greek side of my family. Each character is likable in their own way. A warm, funny movie that most people should enjoy.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about?","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amusing, yes?  Worthy of the heaps of praise it has received?  NO.  I've seen TV movies as good or as better than this.  Lonely girl from an ethnic family meets handsome teacher and gets married.  So what?  Sitcom situations, routine writing, and directing does not add up to anything special.  John Corbett should have stayed on Sex and the City. 6/10  "},{"Title":"A Big, Fat, Fabulous Movie","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious, touching,and realistic (brother married into a Greek family only in our case it would be the Big, Fat, Loud Greeks meet the Big, Fat, Loud Irish).  Was impressed with the number of actual Greek actors (Michael Constantine is terrific as the father) playing Greek roles. One of the best movies to come out in awhile, especially in the independent film area. Love conquers all, including the overbearing in-laws. It cries for a sequel. On a scale of 1-5(5 being the best) this movie rates an 8.  "},{"Title":"Great movie experience!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I went to see BFGW several months ago, but it was sold out. We finally went again 2 nights ago, and I'm still laughing!  I had high expectations based on other people's reviews - and friends' comments- and I wasn't disappointed.  Coming from a large (but not Greek!) family, I could relate to a lot of the scenes, but even those from smaller families will laugh out loud.  It was sweet, poignant, hilarious, real-life, and inspiring!  I just loved it and can't wait to see it again on video!  Go see this movie - you're in for a real treat! "},{"Title":"A nice change.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many people try and dislike feel good movies, preferring hard hitting, true to life and the majority of the time depressing movies. I am I'm afraid not one of them. This film made me feel hopeful and left me with a grin on my face. I was never in any doubt about the happy ending that ensues, but the film didn't try to tell me that there wouldn't be one. This is a change from the usual rom/com, that tries to keep you guessing with twists and turns, which usually don't detract from the predictabilty of the film. However this film is straight forward and at no point tries to be different and this is why it is a refreshing change. This and lovely little details like the Father who thinks that windex cures everything, make this film a wonderful watch.The cast look like they are having a good time in their roles and it makes the film for me. The characters all have a genuine warmth about them and most are provided with at least one good line within the film.In whole this film was a feel good delight full of charm to watch which depicts family life as eccentric and strange as it is, without becoming too over the top. And on a personal note, John Corbett is as sexy as ever, as he manages to bring his laid back gentle charm to yet another role.  "},{"Title":"Great food, but where's the plot?","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I like Greece and weddings, and this film seemed a lot of fun, but as it turned out all the best bits were in the trailer. In fact it was my big fat American wedding albeit with plenty of ethnic colour. At times it veered close to parody eg grandma the Turk hater, and the over-protective brother (though he says he doesn't really mean to kill Ian the groom in case of default).Ian (John Corbett) the groom doesn't even look surprised when the threat is made.The Anglos (Ian's family) are painted as pretty pinched and mean) and of course the Greeks all loud, colourful and big-hearted, roasting sucking pigs on the lawn and drinking prodigious amounts of Ouzo (come to think of it that's one Greek custom Ian's parents pick up pretty quickly).The real problem with this film is that even a comedy needs some dramatic tension and this doesn't have any. We know from the outset there's going to be a Happy Wedding, even before the lovely couple meet, and nothing much happens along the way to make us think otherwise. Of course Dad, proprietor of Zorba's Dance Restaurant, objects to a non-Greek prospective son-in-law but he has no real control over who his 30-year-old daughter Toula goes out with, and Mum scarcely seems to mind. The happy couple seem to have fallen in love at first sight and they are oblivious to everything else.Still, it's a lot of fun and there's plenty of noise and colour. It reminded me in tone of `What's Cooking' an earlier celebration of multiethnic America, but that film did at least have some storylines. Maybe this film would have worked better as a documentary, or even a mockumentary. We are told that the filmmaker and female lead, Nia Vardelos, based the story on her own experiences. As it is, we just have some cute characters in search of a plot, amusingly presented, but with all the dramatic force of a plate of soggy moussaka.   "},{"Title":"Pretty average","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're Greek (I'm not), this might be funny, but otherwise, it's not very clever.  Just a standard romantic comedy with an un-charismatic leading lady and a wasted John Corbett.  Utterly predictable, completed by the surprise family acceptance at the end. "},{"Title":"Worth the ticket","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well made, heart warming, romantic comedy. Acting was good, good dialogue and a good cast. Not just a Chic Flick, the guys I know that saw it liked it too. Good movie to take a date on, but not if you don't want her to get any ideas about thinking about marriage! Gee, wish I could find a guy like the one in this movie!  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie twice and would love to own the DVD as soon as it's available. The plot is very simple, but the acting and the lines are hilarious! I loved the movie!  For those of you who think it's just another chick filck, then you are completely wrong! How can I prove it to you? well, you have to go and see for yourself!    "}{"Title":"cultural eye opener that crosses all lines","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie which envelopes the viewer in a warm fuzzy feeling.  I compared this wedding to my own wedding and the events leading up to it and found lots of similarities despite the Greek theme.  Your cultural is important but so is acceptance of other cultures.Lesley "},{"Title":"Even in a Greek cafe, the ethnic joke can run out of steam.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw an interview with Nia Vardalos in which she derided the Hollywood system for initially suggesting the script should be converted to an Italian or Hispanic ethnic setting. Now she has this huge success on her hands, she is certainly vindicated. But you have to ask yourself one question. Would the movie then have been any different apart from the flag on the garage door and the overworn joke about all words being derived from Greek?People of various ethnic origins joke at the over-the-top excesses of their families, especially their migrant parents and other relatives in the new country, be it the USA, UK or Australia. That's good and healthy, but a full length movie of such jokes which attempts to keep them afloat atop a  plastic beachball of a plot full of air is eventually going to roll under and start to gurgle for breath.The boy meets girl story was - nothing - a serve of coffee, and a glance through a travel agency window. The non-Greek characters were cardboard cut outs. The Millers were meant to be educated people, Ian said his father was a lawyer, but they came out with is Greece near Armenia? And the message was that every Greek person is (a) lovable (b) hugely excessive (c) xenophobic. That last word is derived from Greek Xenos meaning foreign and phobic - well the movie already did that one.I love Greece, have had many happy times there enjoying great friendship and hospitality from its people, and have even acquired a smattering of the language. I live in a city with a large Greek population, and formerly lived in the world's third largest Greek city, which happens to be Melbourne. Are Greeks in Australia for some reason far more restrained than those in America, or did we merely see the American penchant for massive over-statement? Do they really have to drive every single joke home with a sledgehammer lest a single member of the audience might fail to get it?OK, I laughed early and gave it 7/10 for a good try, but I must have been in generous mood. "},{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let me get my only criticism out of the way first. I would have rated this movie higher if Ian had even feigned a little anxiety over Toula's family steamrolling his wedding and life. He didn't - he was far too malleable to be believed.That being said - there is a lot to like about this movie because it is NOT conventional Hollywood fare. Toula is a very pretty woman, but not your typical Hollywood 96 lb. beauty queen. The movie has its fun with Greek culture and family, but also underscores its importance. The movie conveys a strong sense of feminism - but not the man-hating feminism that is so prevalent in certain women's rights groups that use acronyms that rhyme with COW or PLOW. I have known many a first and second generation Greek in my life, and this movie ABSOLUTELY NAILS THE DYNAMIC of their lives. It's a fun movie, and it contains important social commentary. "},{"Title":"Light and fluffy, feel good movie","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why do people have a tendency to get carried away with films, believe all the promotions and hype etc.I see that is happening with this movie.This is a humourous, amusing film that does not come up with anything new. It is a good, entertaining movie. It is not a incredibly funny movie that is so good you will forget all the troubles that this world will throw at you.The cast are all very good in their parts. All the stereotypes and cliches are well represented.This is a rainy Friday night or date movie. Or as I classify it Light and Fluffy. Nothing more. "},{"Title":"So So","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am from Hellas (u call it Greece) .Big Fat Greek Wedding is ok.i would vote it with 7. is not spectacular though .They over reacting the most of the times tryin' to make the movie funnier etc..we are not spittin' when someone is gettin married . We are not that stupid we are more open minded that the movie shows ...things like parents controlling your life like this were happening ...like 40 years ago.I Don't say that they won't like for you to be married with a Greek girl or whatever better than a foreigner but it's not gonna be like that ..  it gives the wrong impression sometimes...a good thing about the movie is PROUD TO BE FROM HELLAS !!!!!It compares the stupid culture(English like (no wonder why ppl from Uk voted bad))  of Miller's Family with the portokalos family  .anyway forget this ... is worth to watch. "},{"Title":"Greek Salad, Salt Missing","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was not amazed that this film was well received by US critics and audiences. It touches a sensitive subject for the American (and any immigrant society) - inter-marriage, and it does it as a comedy at human scale. What is new to American audiences is well known for movie fans all over the globe - real human emotions can be good film material, even better than comics or gangster stories. The problem is that all is so expected, I could even predict gags after the first two minutes of the film.The director never did a big screen movie, just episodes of TV shows like 'Love Boat'. The result can be seen - characters never get deeper than the stereotype, and he really has trouble making something happen in this 90 minutes screen. Acting is good, but it reminds so much TV that I kept hearing the background laughs as in TV comedy series. If you really want to see a good ethnic inter-marriage film better pick   'Mississippi-Massala'. 'Greek Wedding' is a missed opportunity to do a similar film more on the comic side. 6/10 on my personal scale.   "},{"Title":"Predictable but totally charming","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, the plot is routine and predictable.  So are a great many of the jokes.However, this movie is so charming that you look past its flaws.  Its a well intentioned, lighthearted comedy filled with nicely observed characters.It was very entertaining and I fell in love with the people in this movie.  You can't ask for much more from a good romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another sorry movie in the vein of Pretty Woman.Basic plot, a frumpy, plain (Greek, but this is really unimportant) woman falls in love with a male model. The movie is built around this and tries very hard to be quaint and funny but basically it's just another movie for dumpy, unattractive women who nevertheless dream about getting a gorgeous hunk someday to indulge their shallow and delusional fantasies. Watching her swoon and fall over herself just because this guy is good looking, what kind of message is this sending to viewers? And to make things worse, he's the one making incredible sacrifices to be with her! Get serious.Not the least bit funny, warm hearted or entertaining, just another excuse to pair a plain women with a superhunk to make female viewers feel good and hopeful. Unless you are the type of woman described above then avoid this at all costs because to anyone decent, it's offensive. "},{"Title":"Could be ANY Big Fat Wedding!!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How many of us dreaded the day our two families met before the big wedding, and yet, they did meet, and we still married that wonderful person who took us to see this movie?? This movie appeals to all ethnicities, no matter what age or demographic.  We all have a history, and as Toula's brother says (quoting a famous advice columnist!), Don't let your history decide your future, but let your history be a part of your future!  This movie might be in my past, but it will make me laugh today, tomorrow, and in the future. And isn't laughter the best medicine for what ails you?  Oh, wait!! It's not. It's WINDEX!!!!Treat yourself, your spouse, your family, your friends. See this movie. If you really like yourself, your spouse, your family and your friends, see it again and again with each and every one of them!!! "},{"Title":"Good clean fun!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really a breath of fresh, good, clean air.  This movie had me giggling like a school girl.  My wife was laughing too.  As I was walking out of the film I had a big smile on my face, and I giggled several more times on the drive home.  And they did it all without one bit of profanity - hence the G rating.  This movie won't win any awards and it's not overly deep in meaning...  but, isn't it nice that Hollywood still has the ability to churn out a movie that's just plain fun to watch... even with your kids or your in-laws.  10 out of 10!  "}{"Title":"Must see if you are ethnic or have ever dated ethnic","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is great fun - lots of laugh out loud material plus feel-good.  Just stays the right side of cheesy at times - very cleverly.  This won't challenge your intellect but it might strain your sides at times, even old gags are repackaged beautifully, e.g. the wicked attempts by the Greek brother and his mates to embarrass and unnerve the unsuspecting fiancee.  You don't have to be Greek to enjoy this movie - if you are ethnic of any kind or have ever dated ethic this film is a must see.  It reminded me a bit of Meet the Parents, which I also rate very highly.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I have been to in a long time!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was so nice to see a movie that kept you laughing throughout!  There was no violence, foul language, killings, and blood.  It is nice to know that a low budget film can still make a killing without the killings.  My husband really enjoyed this movie as well and he is a real action film buff.  He even laughed and that doesn't come as easy for him.  If you haven't seen this one, don't miss out. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  By now, this sleeper hit has probably been seen by enough people to render my comments useful to only a very few.  Regardless, I felt obliged to jot something down.The film tells the story of an ugly duckling who falls in love with, and marries her prince.  Our ugly duckling (Fortula or Tula for short), has always been a bit uncomfortable trying to fit into both her American surroundings and into the expectations of her Greek family.  Her Father (and her entire extended family) expect her to marry a nice Greek boy and turn out nice Greek children.  Unfortunately for Tula, her prince turns out to be very American.I really enjoyed this film.  I found it charming, and laughed out loud frequently at the antics of the Fortula's family.  I especially enjoyed the fact that the ugly duckling in this picture was not some Hollywood glamour girl or teen beauty queen dressed up to look frumpy (e.g., She's All That);  it made the movie so much more believable.*There is nothing terribly heavy about this movie; you never really have to wonder if something terrible is going to happen or whether someone is going to have to overcome something catastrophic for this romance to work.I gave this movie an 8 "},{"Title":"Truly entertaining","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a simple film with everyday characters - except Greek and non-Greek. The clash between cultures is expected. One laughs frequently during the film. But it is a very likeable movie because all the characters are likeable.If one wants to step back and reflect for a minute there is something to be said about the American culture and its tendency to try to absorb everything else.Obviously here is a good counter example with different and refreshing values. One cannot help desire to move some place in the Mediterranean after seeing the film.A welcome change from mainstream Americana (eg Cruise / Pitt / Cage...). "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Favorite Chick Flick","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I've been hearing and hearing and hearing about this movie, My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  Coincidentally, in all the hearing I've experienced, none of it has been bad - not even mediocre.  That's impressive.  This is movie is doing well under the Blair Witch formula - a indie movie with a very limited release that is the benefactor of great word-of-mouth.  $158 million is nothing to sneeze at. This movie was well written, well directed, well acted, well produced. There really is nothing special about the story itself.  This movie is about a single woman who's stuck in life.  Her parents are worried she'll be an old maid (her father thinks she already is).  She decides to change her course in life and ends up meeting prince charming.  What makes this run-of-the-mill story so special is how it is told.  There is well written dialogue, interesting characters who have realism, wit, and good acting. Nia Vardalos, who plays the lead character, Toula, had the presence required.  Her parents and family members, played by half the population of Crete, play each role, from grandma, to brother, to cousin, with perfection. But what genre is this movie?  It's a chick flick that guys won't mind seeing (which means a date that's bound to impress the lady-friend).  This is not the typical chick flick.  You don't have Julia Roberts or Meg Ryan - and the usual mushiness of their kind of movies that make men gag.  It's got legitimate romance but there's something there that keep men from passing out.  That ingredient is the humor.  It's throughout the entire movie. This movie is Meet the Parents mixed with a little Cinderella and your grandmother.  What make this movie works is how the other lead character, Ian (played by John Corbett), is introduced to Toula's family and vice-versa.  That's the charm of this movie.  It's the comparison from a family steeped in the deep, rich culture of the Old World with the other that is and exaggerated description of upper middle class America.  Toula has a self-made Cinderella experience.  She decides to change careers and get a make over.  The old Toula, who was lifeless, is replaced with a new, sweet Toula who we all cheer for.  Your grandmother, especially if she is very ethnic, is personified in the ENTIRE supporting cast.  Toula comes from a Greek family.  The older generation of Toula's family are Greek immigrants.  She, her cousins, her nieces and nephews are all brought up Greek.  Everything is Greek.  And that's the charm of the movie  Nice American, upper-middle class, guy meets a nice, very ethnic woman. This is a strong 9 all the way.  The only problem, and this is way too picky, is the film looked a little grainy.  But the real problem is the talk of TV sitcom and other things that could possibly ruin the charm of this movie (unless there is an action figure line - all movies need an action figure line).  The problem with Hollywood is the over-saturation and over use of franchises.  How many Bill and Ted movies did we really need? So anyway, great film.  It's worth seeing multiple times.  And it's a must have for the DVD shelf (hopefully in Dolby Digital 5.1). "},{"Title":"3 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fotoula Portokalos (who goes by the name Toula and is played in the film by Nia Vardalos) is Greek. She says in the voice-over narration that Greek women are supposed to marry a Greek man, have Greek babies, and feed everybody. She is 30 years old, single, and not even dating anyone, so she is *really* not living up to her parents' expectations. She is also somewhat unattractive, at least by typical Hollywood standards.She works in the family restaurant in Chicago, Dancing Zorba's, which comes complete with a lame neon dancing Greek character on the building. One day Ian Miller (John Corbett from Northern Exposure) comes in, and Toula can't stop staring at him. He notices, more or less, but leaves without any meaningful connection being made.Some weeks or months later, Toula has made some changes in her life, and she sees Ian again. This time the attraction seems to be mutual, and after some minor difficulty, they start to date. But Toula knows it can't work. Ian is not Greek.Of course from the film's title you know that they at least try to find a way to work it out, but I won't give away much more. I will mention, however, that the parents are an important part of the film. Toula's parents are Gus (Michael Constantine from Room 222) and Maria (Lainie Kazan). They are emotional and old fashioned and, of course, Greek. Ian's parents, on the other hand, are very repressed and more modern, and in general are the exact opposite of the Portokalos family.Nia Vardalos, the star, also wrote the screenplay for the film, based on her one woman play. Apparently Rita Wilson (who is part Greek) saw the play, brought her husband Tom Hanks to see it, and they helped get it made into a film, with both acting as producers on the film. *Interesting note* Vardalos' real life husband is also named Ian, but he's Ian Gomez, who plays Ian Miller's friend Mike in the film.The film is very fun and very funny, most of the time. I think that the one woman play on which it is based was probably a bit more like a stand up comedy act than a true play, and that comes across in the film. The jokes are great, but the story that connects them is not as strong. And the film structure, camera work, etc. are pretty simple and straightforward, not adding much. It's a testament to the material that the film is as enjoyable as it is. And it *is* enjoyable. And definitely recommended.Seen on 9/15/2002.  "},{"Title":"Comes by it's humor honestly...","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding this weekend. I haven't laughed that hard at a movie in a long time. It's the kind of movie that comes by it's humor honestly.. it's full of life humor....Greek Wedding was made tastefully, without really making fun... you can insert any other ethnicity into the title (instead of the word Greek) and it would still ring true.It was nice to see John Corbett in a leading theatrical role. I didn't care for him as Lars in Serendipity (with John Cusak), but he successfully played Ian as the smitten, mushy, eager-to-please  romantic.I wanted to strangle Michael Constantine through the whole movie, but at the same time, he made me laugh hysterically.I loved Louis Mandylor as the brother. I thought he played his character in ...Greek Wedding very honestly. I really felt like Nick was someone who could I could see living down the street, working on his car.Overall, while this movie will most likely not be recognized by the Academy, I still highly recommend it for a good laugh. ...Greek Wedding is rated PG, though children probably won't understand the humor. "},{"Title":"Comes by it's humor honestly...","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding this weekend. I haven't laughed that hard at a movie in a long time. It's the kind of movie that comes by it's humor honestly.. it's full of life humor....Greek Wedding was made tastefully, without really making fun... you can insert any other ethnicity into the title (instead of the word Greek) and it would still ring true.It was nice to see John Corbett in a leading theatrical role. I didn't care for him as Lars in Serendipity (with John Cusak), but he successfully played Ian as the smitten, mushy, eager-to-please  romantic.I wanted to strangle Michael Constantine through the whole movie, but at the same time, he made me laugh hysterically.I loved Louis Mandylor as the brother. I thought he played his character in ...Greek Wedding very honestly. I really felt like Nick was someone who could I could see living down the street, working on his car.Overall, while this movie will most likely not be recognized by the Academy, I still highly recommend it for a good laugh. ...Greek Wedding is rated PG, though children probably won't understand the humor. "},{"Title":"Greatly entertaining.  Don't miss it!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a total pleasure.  There were no characters that I hated, and several I really liked.  Nia Vardalos as the Frumpy Duckling who (sorry for the mixed metaphor!) comes out of her shell performed admirably, considering her apparently limited experience.  John Corbett and she had an instant film chemistry, the thread of which was the constant needed to hang all the ethnic hilarity on.  **WARNING**  If you are unable to enjoy a totally politically incorrect movie, skip this one. This is simply a thoroughly enjoyable movie - not a statement.  In other words, IT'S ENTERTAINMENT, no more. I left the theater wondering what the DVD release date would be. "},{"Title":"Delightful romp where family is the star!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like many ensemble films, 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' benefits from having no one stand out in particular and everyone standing out especially.  Every major member of the cast is wonderful in a film that doesn't fit the mold as a chick flick.  As a guy, I loved this movie because it has appeal to both sexes.  It is extremely well written with laughs and warm sentiment combined and a good look at culture clashes between two families.  I would like to see this film nominated for the best picture Oscar because it is far better that 1994's 'Four Weddings and a Funeral' which did get an Oscar nomination for best film that year and this film has more depth, better attention given to its characters and an ending that is sweet and totally in keeping with the theme of FAMILY which it incorporates throughout its entire running time. "}{"Title":"What an endearing and joyous journey","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Truly charming, wonderful and enchanting. Nia Vardalos has exceptional talent, and pairing her with John Corbett was a struck of genious. Their chemistry pours out of the screen in an avalanche of fun, laughter and romance. This movie is truly for the romantic fool at heart and for the moviegoers who love a lightweight but intelligent film. "},{"Title":"It loves itself so much you may find it easier to love than hate","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (6/10) Don't be put off by the trailer &#150; this movie is actually quite funny. Funny in a formulaic, TV-sitcom sort of way. It gives us a life-segment of a dowdy 30yr old Greek woman in America who puts on a bit of make-up and attracts a hunky American, makes him &#145;Greek' and marries him. End of story. Much of the material is drawn from a one-woman comedy show, which in turn was drawn from her own life experiences. The &#145;Greek' gags don't come over well in the trailer perhaps because it is only when we are immersed in the Greekness of the characters, and the stark contrast with American attitudes, that we can see the humour in the situations. The movie has lots of sentimental self-caricature, a big wedding, and all the other elements for a popular Saturday night laugh. Nothing deep, except perhaps that the caricatures give some insight into the large Greek community in many western countries that tends to keep itself to itself and so remain something, sadly, of a mystery to outsiders.  "},{"Title":"This is a rip-off of the Australian comedy The Wog Boy","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Has anyone seen The Wog Boy (2000)...?Most probably not... otherwise you would realise how similar it is to My Big Fat Greek Wedding, except in this film, a female is the lead. The plot is very very similar... boy meets Anglo girl/girl meets Anglo boy... oh, its so hard to live with such a cultural background... we are so different... ra ra ra...! Anyways, if you loved My Big Fat Greek Wedding, then if you get a chance, see The Wog Boy! I mean, MBFGW was very enjoyable, but I have say it has a very striking resemblence! "},{"Title":"soooooo funny","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious. I heard about the story of the actual lead character (and writer as well) and i thought it was awesome that rita wilson took interest in a fellow greek gal. I thought the movie was so great and refreshing "},{"Title":"Way overrated","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on a plane from New York. First off, I barely laughed while watching it, and I am surprised to see that the film has done so well in the USA and in the UK. The film is a comedy-romance, never a genre that I've fancied myself, and I can't quite put my finger on why, but I just didn't like this film. In my opinion, it wasn't funny, it had a lame storyline, yet it's been so widely accepted throughout the world. I recommend you try it, because the film has caused many mixed opinions from people, but I just did not like it. If you like films such as Notting Hill and Bridget Jones's Diary - then you will probably like it. If you like films such as The Godfather and Taxi Driver - best to leave it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Chick Flick","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When our wives wanted to go to this movie, we did object more than a little. Secondly, the professional critics have panned this movie -- two popcorns.  But, we were pleasantly surprised!  Sure it was a bit predictable, but it was a good comedy.  It was generally a clean movie with really only one lightly questionable spot.  If you'd like a few hearty laughs and a generally uplifting movie, you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Review ****","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My whole family is Greek. When I told them I haven't seen the movie yet, they were appalled! My mother had seen it twice before I had seen it, and that says something about a Greek woman who the last time went to a movie theater was to see the re-release of Bambi at the dollar theater when I was five in 1987. When I saw it, I was amazed at how the movie captured the Greek-American family. When I was the Koumbaro (best man) at my cousin's wedding she was marrying a non-Greek. I noticed the movie portrayed the wedding exactly and also what the poor groom went through. All in all, the movie was great! There were so many parts where I couldn't stop laughing because of its nostalgic humor, and other parts where I got choked up simply because of its nostalgia. But even if you're not Greek you could relate to the movie's character's and humor. I highly recommend this movie to everyone! "},{"Title":"Very much overrated","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I saw this movie in Greenville,SC, at a theater on Woodruff Road.  We had tried once before but the theater was sold out that night, so we thought it really must be a good one.  We returned last night and were able to get in, though there were a good many people there.I didn't think the movie was all that funny.  It, of course, reminded me of Fiddler on the Roof, as the themes are similar in some respects, and there were a few funny situations growing out of the clash of the two cultures. I was offended by the gutter language.  I was also embarrassed by the fact that it protrayed pre-marital sex and ordinary and acceptable.  I don't think either of these elements added anything to the movie.I wouldn't advise anybody to spend their money on this movie.  "},{"Title":"Warm, loud, funny, glorious movie.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a giggle a minute interspersed with guffaws.  The casting is superb and all so believable. I felt I was at the wedding when it finally happened. The love story is gentle and fun and Nia is glorious and so real. Every 30 year old woman criticised by her family for not finding HIM can relate to her. Nia blossoms, not because she has a man but because she wants to break the mould of where her father sees her, as a hostess in his restaurant until she can find herself a husband.  Once she breaks this mould, she is on her way, her self esteem goes up along with a position in travel agency and then she meets him, or rather he makes a point of meeting her.  Then the fun begins as he tries to assimilate into her huge extended family. There are so many sidebits in this also, reminiscent of Four weddings and a funeral.the grandmother is a hoot with her cursing and running away, the rough and tumble relationship that her brother has with his nephews.  The plastic swimming pool where the groom gets baptized, etc.  It all makes for glorious whole.  8 out of 10. A delight. "},{"Title":"great film and not to be taken seriously","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well your viewers comment on this movie is troublesome.  This viewer obviously takes this movie (and himself?) far too seriously.  All you have to do is relex and enjoy the dichotomy of two different cultures colliding - and the Wasp looses, not the Greeks!  And that is my only complaint but apart from that the movie is very funny indeed. And it's an interesting insight to the Greek culture which can be a bit over the top at time (the Greeks not the movies). "}{"Title":"Not Just A Chick Flick","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not one who loves to praise movie just because others put it on a pedestal, so I'd like to honestly say that this was truly a very good movie. Of course it wasn't the best movie I had ever seen.  If there was one thing that I'd have to say detracts from it is that it's basically cut and dry. But then again, that's all subjective...some people are fine without too much conflict in the movies that they watch.  What I have to disagree with is how many people complain that they've seen the same premise and cliches in other movies, how it's not original. Originality doesn't necessarily make a movie.  It's more in how the story is told.  Look at the movie Memento...you could say that the premise was taken from Dana Carvey's less-than-smash hit Clean Slate but the fact that Memento handles the story much better makes the difference.  That's what makes this film a standout.  It takes a light-hearted, humorous look into the life of a Greek Family (yes, they could have been Mexican, they could have been Italian and it wouldn't have made a difference...whatever, Nia Vardalos is Greek, so that's what she wrote).  I also think that they handle the story of Toula's transformation well.  There was no need for a life-defining moment or a death in the family for it to come about...she was unhappy with how her life was going, so she needed a change.  It happens to almost everyone at some point in their lives, and the fact that we can relate to it makes it work in the movie.  I don't think that this is the best or funniest movie I've seen, but it was made well enough for me to thorougly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Camera Staring, Cosmetics Demonstration","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I tried watching this movie after watching Barbershop, which develops characters spiritedly through dialogue and story.  The camera staring at the lead character's virtual pantomimes and the ordinary dialogue was superfluous.  We get it that she's frumpy in her father's restaurant.  What we don't get is why it now occurs to her to get pretty, but, more important, we don't get why anyone would think it necessary to slowly show each phase of her acquiring that conventional beauty the slow use of cosmetics and contacts before the vanity mirror, the acceptance of school mates.  Lack of surprise is fine if only there is enlightenment.  Who could learn anything from these opening scenes?  Beauty that shallow, that originates in paint and clothing, anyway, is not worth looking at.  I could not hope for creative dialogue from such a woman, and walked out longing to watch for more real downtown ghetto humor. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a Greek and I thought this film was just amazing. Since I know exactly how Greeks think and act I thought every joke had a point. To really enjoy this film, you have to know a bit about Greek culture (which is a little bit exagerated in the film). Me and my friends couldn't stop laughing and so did the rest of the people in the cinema (which was full, by the way). Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Promising, but...","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie starts out promising, but after the first 10 minutes, you want the movie to catch up some speed  it gets boring and you lose your attention. It is not a total disaster however  every time you think OK, that's it, out of here, the storyline gets interesting. Glad I saw it, but not seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What an absolutely fantastic film......I'm Greek and not only did I find it hilarious, but I related to it..Despite the fact that it was mildly over the top especially the Oba's!!! My family is pretty much exactly the same....force feeding comes naturally and there aren't any vegetables in sight...laughing at the jokes in greek before the subtitles came up was slightly embarrassing though!!! "},{"Title":"There is a very predictable plot if you can find it.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An average chick flick with very little plot. It's vaguely cute but bar this attribute, it truly is a bore. It goes nowhere bar the title. It's just a film about a wedding and unlike the UK classic, there was only one of them, not four, and there was no funeral. I wager no sequal !! "},{"Title":"A Winner","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, they've done it. Something Independent and extremely good has managed to slap the studio suits in the face for once. With it's Budget being only $5 Million (that's just £3 Million), it could be considered a bigger triumph than the Blair Witch Project.My Big Fat Greek Wedding has made back the Budget it was made on in two weeks release in the UK. Not to mention the $140 Dollars it's made in the US. Tom Hanks knows a good movie when he sees one...or stage-play rather. I take my hat off to this well crafted and wonderfully endearing film that all Filmmakers should at least aim to make one of during their careers. Who knows, maybe there could be Oscars in the pipeline...Best Original Screenplay perhaps or maybe even Best Picture??? If you're reading voters....you heard it here first!  "},{"Title":"Touching.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding was a throughly enjoyable movie.  I found it touching, funny and real.  I believed that Toula loved Ian.  I enjoyed the awkwardness of their initial dates and I believed them to be real people.  I think that is the key to this movie.  It is a movie about real people.  This movie is well worth seeing for a refreshing view of real life.   "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding 7/10","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding's whole plot has been used countless times before. But director Joel Zwick and writer Nia Vardalos are able to make a witty, clever piece of work that stands out as the summer's surprise hit.Nia Vardalos also stars as Toula Portokalos, a 30-year-old member of her family who works in the family restaurant, Dancing Zorba's. She's, so to speak, nerdy and shy, and we learn (from very funny flashbacks) that she was never liked and had to go to Greek School. Her father Gus (Michael Constantine) wants her to marry (a Greek, of course) so she can carry on the family. She, first, has to find a boyfriend.Toula sees a man who's dining in her eatery and is flattered by him. She gets a makeover (she looks totally different) and goes to work in her family's travel agency, where he comes back and they soon start to date. Toula and Ian Miller (John Corbett) fall in love, and Ian asks Toula to marry him.Obviously, Gus and the rest of the family doesn't want that. But, they insist, and the rest of the movie is about Ian's (and his parents's) adaptions to Greek customs. The house where they lived is the funniest part of the picture. Sure, it's not a big-budget hit, but t's a very funny piece of work.N'Sync's Joey Fatone comes in (meaninglessly) as a cousin who teaches Ian some Greek. It's obvious that he was put in to attract pre-teen audiences. He was even credited in the ad! The characters were hard to keep track of, but in movies like this you need lots of them. And it didn't matter as long as you got the main few straight.Many running jokes, such as the house, grew old after a while, but others, like the Windex, were funny all the way through the ending (which was great, by the way). My Big Fat Greek Wedding almost warrants enough laughs to guarantee a higher rating, but just misses.My rating 7/10Rated PG for language and sensuality. "},{"Title":"The critics are seldom right","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure there were cliches in this movie?  Aren't there cliches in all wedding movies?  But this one was different, seen through the eyes of the writer and actress, it was a wonder to behold.  If Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan don't win best supporting actor and actress for this flick, something is indeed wrong with the Academy.Yes, it was the supporting roles that gave this movie legs.  Since April it has bested every blockbuster Hollywood can turn out. Remarkable. "}{"Title":"It is Greeeaaaaatttttt!!!!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen a lot of Indie movies and I must say that sincerely this one surpasses them all. I was a bit skeptical when the movie came out and it was titled My big fat greek wedding. I saw the bits and pieces of the trailer and I was sure this movie was going to be like all other indie movies. Well I will be the first one to tell myself and others that never judge a movie by its trailer. Nia Vardalos is a great writer as she is an actress. I felt she gave an astounding performance as a former ugly duckling turned beauty queen. Of course let's not forget that John Corbett was also a good performer (I may be biased because I just loved him on sex and the city). I give this movie Two huge thumps up. 4 stars and I sure will recommend you all to see it. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I finaly got around to catching this small romantic comedy, and rather enjoyed it. Good solid acting from a cast of mostly unknowns, a well written storyline and some real laugh out loud moments make this one worth the wait. GRADE A "},{"Title":"Girl running out of options breaks away, finds romance & comes home.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is charming, to be sure.  It would have been much stronger if we'd taken the time to find why the two lovers had so much in common.  I personally didn't believe the two were well-suited for one another.  All I know is they made out in his car - he was a vegetarian school teacher (but how good a teacher?) and she was ... well, a travel agent.  I really didn't see a thing that these two had in common - nor did I believe their marriage was going to be a good thing.We could have seen a little less of the Greek father's moaning - we knew he was old-world and not accepting of the whole marriage - and we could have found the two lovers doing something that showed they were not only well-suited for each other - but were inseparable.I would have enjoyed seeing their time together at the museums, or the ball park, or a blues club.  Anything that said - these two need to bet hitched. To me this story was contrived and forced on us.  It had mountains of charm and wit, great dialog, and beautifully executed.  But what it lacked, in my view, was total substance.  It's as if we're just supposed to understand these two are meant to be together.I know the film didn't follow the usual pattern boy gets girl, loses her and gets her back.  The filmmakers almost went down that road and it was refreshing to see other obstacles like cultural heritage getting in the way - but not blocking the marriage.  I just wanted to get to know my characters more and that wasn't happening. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've seen in a looooooooong time","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's funny, cute, and a good laugh...Way to Go Rita.. Alot of people could relate to this movie....especially if you've planned a wedding or are planning a wedding. If you need to laugh and see a light movie...This is definitely it! "},{"Title":"A milestone in the romance genre","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is not at all your typical boy falls in love with girl (or vice versa) romance comedy.  This movie offers plenty of laughs and for once will get the audience laughing without the use of perverse toilet jokes.Although probably not too appreciated by those who are still caught on the Tom Green level of comedy, this movie is one riot from start to finish, humor with maturity.  Every character is a world in itself and when combined the audience finds itself laughing and laughing.While this movie is PG and is more relatively cleaner than other romance movies, I would not suggest bringing the younger ones, mainly because it will be the most boring hour and a half for them, and there are also several sensual moments, none too heavy though.For great comedy in a romance genre, this movie rates 6/10 "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Funniest movie I've seen in ages!!!  I've just seen it for the third time and it's just as entertaining as the first time.  I keep taking friends to see it and it's fun to watch them enjoy the movie.  Can't wait until the video comes out ... it's a must have! "},{"Title":"Unimpressive","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rather dull for long stretches. The attempts at humour are rather bland. The cultural elements passed me by, unfortunately, since the story seemed to make little effort to explain them. Not impressed, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this and it was terrific. Is it the greatest comedy ever made? Of course not. It's just a film full of laughs. I think it's such a hit because just about everyone can relate to the family. You don't have to be Greek. It works with just about any ethnic group, Italian, Hispanic, Irish, Polish etc. We need enjoyable little films like this. I'm glad it's so successful so other minor films will get a chance now too.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  But hey, I'm a sucker for a romantic comedy...and this one ROCKS.What I loved most about this film is how I kept trying to predict the details and I WAS WRONG EVERY TIME.  Just when I thought I could GUESS the story line....new fresh material was there to greet me.I LOVED THIS MOVIE! I want to see it over again because I know I missed some jokes while I was too busy LAUGHING.9/10 "},{"Title":"One word Excellent!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last week, I went to the Movies night of my theater and I didn't know what this movie was.  Now, I recommend this film to everybody!  I was with a Greek friend and we laughed all the time.  Nia Vardalos is perfect in this role and the family is fantastically played. This movie is one of the best I've seen this year and I hope it will be on DVD soon...Good film,Flo "}{"Title":"Greek is the Word!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dear `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' lovers Do you take this film to be your sleeper film of the year, Do you promise to be faithful by buying the dvd version when is released, and Do you promise to recommend it to friends no matter wherever they shall live? Many filmgoers are saying `I Do' to many of these questions for the feel-good surprise hit of the year My Big Fat Greek Wedding'. This hilarious gem is about an average looking greek waitress with a big fat family who falls for a subtle american woman's man. Nia Vardalos & John Corbett execute big fat engaging performances as the happy couple. However, it is the boisterous family characters which is the `marriest' part of the film. They are a `windex' bunch!! The movie has been a huge box office success, and its paying off big fat paychecks to its producers. So please `greek' yourself to `My Big Fat Greek Wedding'! **** Good  "},{"Title":"Reasonably enjoyable","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're Greek, you'll enjoy this movie.  I watched with several Greeks (they understood the Greek dialogue) and they were laughing uproariously throughout; that was fun to see.  There were light laughs for me, but the movie was full of cliches - homely girl and cute guy, quirky father, stolid white-bread parents, etc. - and hardly any attempt to delve into what motivates the characters - what exactly is the attraction between the two, for instance?  But, overall, it was reasonably enjoyable.P.S. This movie was shot in Toronto which has a vibrant Greek community (Pappas Grill, one of my favourite restaurants, can be seen in some background shots) - I wish they'd had the balls to actually place it there instead of pretending that it's Chicago - maybe one day.  "},{"Title":"All Greek women are expected to go to Greek school, find a good Greek man, marry him and have lots of Greek babies","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen many movies in the past year, some have been wonderful and some have been downright terrible.  My Big Fat Greek Wedding has to be one of the best written and best acted comedies I think I have seen in a long time.  While the concept of making a movie about weddings is not unique, I believe that those of us who either have gone through planning a wedding or have experiences with family having too much influence in our lives will relate to this movie better than other wedding movies.  This movie is about an ordinary rather plain looking thirty something unmarried woman who comes from a large extended Greek family.  All Greek women are expected to go to Greek school, find a good Greek man, marry him and have lots of Greek babies according to the narrator who is also the main character in the movie.  This simple premise is what sets us off in almost two hours of raucous humor centered around planning a wedding where a couple coming from completely different backgrounds has to deal with all the external pressures that happen when two people decide to go down the aisle together.  This movie has several very heartwarming and somewhat emotional scenes in it so dont expect it is just a funny movie.  Acting in this movie on all characters was very well done and very believable.  I thought however that the roles of the Grooms Mother and Father were rather flat and two dimensional.  This movie reminded me quite a bit of Father of the Bride starring Steve Martin, except in this case, the writers for Monty Python obtained the script for final treatment.  While the writers for Monty Python did not actually write this movie but was instead written by the leading lady, there were some moments where it appeared that the humor was drawn right out of a book of British comedy.  All in all I felt that the whole movie had a British feel to it.This movie will delight you and leave you with a smile on your face.  While the audience in the theater was more of an adult composition, I do not remember any nudity or adult language in the entire picture which means this movie is one that the whole family can see together.  I would wholeheartedly recommend this movie to anyone who would like a good laugh. "},{"Title":"the real deal","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was fantastic!  I laughed so hard I was in pain.   Few movies have gotten me like this one did. I enjoyed the free spirit of the movie; they didn't take themselves so seriously and force the typical hollywood message down the viewers throat. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys the non-traditional comedy.  "},{"Title":"tooo funny","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My stomach hurt when I left the theater. I haven't laughed that hard in a long time.  You don't have to come from a big greek family to appreciate this movie. It is really about any family that loves each other.  I was expecting it to be another chick flick that the girls and I would enjoy, which we did but I know my husband would have loved it just as much. It is nice to have a good clean family movie that makes you laugh and cry and feel good about having family.  Why are there not more movies like this being made??? Maybe Hollywood will get the hint now, this movie has been out for months and is still in the top 5..  Hello Hollywood we like movies like this!!!! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is best comedy I've seen in years but I have to explain something to some people that found it stupid.SORRY BUT YOU SHOULD HAVE LIVED OR SEEN IN REAL LIFE ALL THAT TO GET IT. It's so simple. I went with 3 friends and only one was thinking it wasn't that until we told him some things we personally lived. In everything and everybody in this movie reminded us of people we know, houses we've been to, situations that happened in front of our eyes and they were so absolutely similar to the ones in the movie. So people don't be so hard on things you just can't understand. So bye bye and to more open minded that haven't seen itGO NOOOOOOOW!!!P.S. I've seen it twice in to days and the second at an open cinema. -D "},{"Title":"Extremely Mediocre","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe MBFGW had been built up a bit based on it's success in the USA but I found it to be a bit disappointing. The story trundles along without any great drama from beginning to end and the cast is likeable but doesn't really have to stretch itself. There are a few moments that are genuinely funny but most of it has been done before - just substitute any number of ethnic or cultural groups. Overall the film is worth checking out if you want something easy on the brain but don't expect anything too hilarious. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie of all time","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a marvelous film!  I can't wait until it comes out on DVD. It had me grinning and laughing all the way through.  There's no way anybody can watch it and not end up in a bad mood!!  I highly recommend this movie to anyway looking for a light movie complete with comedy and romance! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While this movie isn't the best comedy in the world or the greatest romance movie ever made it's enjoyable.I sat in the theatre expecting this side splitting comedy and didn't get it. What I did get was a heart warming, realistic and well acted movie. Tula the lead of the movie is not the most beautiful woman in the world dressed in dowdy clothes but an average lady dressed badly.Sure it has the hollywood schmoltz factor but you can't have a romance movie these days without it.Go see it, you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"That was her true story - I bet on it","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I believe that this is a true story. I am a Greek myself and I can relate on many things described in the movie (which I watched with my French husband on our 1 year anniversary day a few days back ) but I have the feeling that this is the _real_ story of Nia Vardalos (which we have the same name ;).I simply do not believe that this was just a nice wrap-up of her experience as a Greek-American, there was a personal touch in the story and a pretty accurate way of describing the Greeks.And we should not be forgeting that Nia Vardalos in the real life is married to a non-Greek, called *Ian* (as in the movie - her real husband plays a part in the movie as Mike).I got to say that I cried at the point where Ian Miller asks her to marry him, as I could relate. She is playing a 30-year old woman, and if you are not already married at this age in Greece, you are considered done, with no future pretty much. I got married when I was 28 years old, and for a lot of my family and friends back in Greece, I was also considered done. Bad luck for you, Greek vultures! "}{"Title":"Laughed so hard I cried","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so very entertaining, that I have seen it twice.  I laughed so very hard that I cried each time that I saw it.  The material is hysterical.  The acting is believable.  The casting is perfect.  We cannot wait to go to our first Greek wedding Next month. "},{"Title":"Nice, Very Nice...","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can see why Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson liked Nia Vardalos' act.  She certainly tells a sweet story about her family, and what it means to be Greek in America.  She also shows that in the end that insecurity and being able to follow your dreams is something that all of us face,irregardless of background.  I have always enjoyed the work of Lainie Kazan, and it is nice to see Michael Constantine get a chance to really develop a character.  Most of the roles that I have seen him in he usually is playing the average father or the average business man.  It is also nice to see Andrea Martin, one of my favorite performers, too.  They all do a fine job  although I don't see any of them being nominated for a supporting actor Oscar. The downside of this show is that the show kind of drags a bit in spots  and there are a lot of cliches about one ethnic groups or  the other thrown in here and there. Also if I were Corbett's Ian, I would have been a little more disturbed by the fact that my lover was lying to her family about me.  Especially since were not talking about a pair of teenagers here. I also felt that sometimes Vardalos still looked old and tired even after her makeover.      All in all though the movie was a pleasant diversion with some good performances. "},{"Title":"As bland and safe as any Tom Hanks movie","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An alarm should have went off in my head when I saw that Tom Hanks produced this safe, bland, and unoriginal movie.  I just kept waiting for it to kick in and be funny, but it never happened.  Michael Constantine was the ONLY funny character in it.  Other than that, it was basically a sit-com disguised as a full length feature.  No wonder it's being picked-up by CBS AS a sit-com.  Go figure.A prior commentator was appalled that the leading character had pre-marital sex before marriage.  I felt it was wrong for the character to do this, but commentator KNEW she was wrong to do it.  It was an important point to be made.Bottom line if you saw Moonstruck, you've seen this movie.  Bye. "},{"Title":"A feelgood movie `","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is simply an uplifting, laugh out loud suprise!  I think critics are right..it's not creed specific...I think everyone will see a little bit of themselves and their family in these characters.  It made love seem real and possible for everyone.   "},{"Title":"Any Greek and/or European can relate to this movie","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being a Greek myself, I couldn't stop giggling throughout the movie. I had lived that life and was very accurate with Greek heritage. There were some priceless moments (You have big boobs instead of thank you). And seeing the bonding that Ian was going through with the family. I highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"THE Outstanding date movie of the summer, but...","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful story, wonderful characters. Truly American entertainment about the blending of cultures that we call the Melting Pot. If you have any romantic inklings, or just want a fun movie that will have you laughing from beginning to end, watch this movie.**** SPOILERS AHEAD ****HOWEVER I know this is a Hollywood fixation, but as great as this movie was, this one thing bothered me. This girl waits 30 years to get married out of respect and deference to her parents and family, but can't wait a few weeks to have sex until after she's married? I'm sorry, but this was completely out of character and pointless unless you buy into the same silly Hollywood notions that result in 15 day Hollywood marriages.I could get past the drinking and the language and some of the other stuff, because I've lived near Greek-town in Chicago. I've known the folks. That's real. The struggle Tula has with her father & mother, respect, her characterization of what is expected of her... all real. Her eventual defiance of the parents to get married, very real, and similar in Chinatown, the Jewish neighborhoods, or any other tight-knit ethnic community near Chicago.But premarital sex, from her character, in that neighborhood... no way.Regardless... Go there... enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Family Comedy!!","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best comedies I've seen all year! I mean it was absolutely fantastic! It had a great cast and kept you laughing out loud throughout th film! It was a great movie about family cultures and traditions that I think all cultures will fall in love with! 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is full with laughs and cheers! "},{"Title":"No Way!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who thinks that John Corbett would be attracted to Nia Vardalos in any other place but a movie is living in a dream world.  Ms Vardalos was not blessed with good, or even average looks; however, the plot of the movie was very good, the movie was well acted, and it was entertaining without playing with any form of political correctness.  My only wish would be that they had cast the male lead with someone who resembles Don Knotts, Jim Nabors, or Ernest Borgnine. "},{"Title":"The Unglamorous Bride Makes Good","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In My Big Fat Greek Wedding, the bride is Fotoula and Fotoula is no Hollywood glamour starlet.At age 30, Fotoula is nothing more than the dowdy and timid daughter of a Greek restaurant owner, working for her father. Her life is the restaurant, her family, and a small Greek community in Chicago. Only when Fotoula discovers a way out of the restaurant and begins to carve out her own path, does she begin to shine and, in the process, finds true love. But true love turns out to be a rather rough road with an untold number of twists, turns, and pitfalls.Fotoula is played by Nia Vardalo who adapted the story from her own one-act play. The groom, Ian Miller, is played by actor John Corbett who was the radio-philosopher in the TV-series Northern Exposure.Individually, or together, Fotoula and Ian duck, dance, and get decked. The resulting comedy is hilarious and the character of Fotoula is strongly reminiscent of another favorite bride -- Muriel of the Australian film Muriel's Wedding (1994)... minus the Abba songs. "},{"Title":"Great Film with great performance","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film. Sat in a cinema filled with Greek families who kept saying how true to life it was helped greatly. The characters are introduced briskly and the romance is pushed quickly but as it is realistic it does not suffer for this. Fun and well worth watching "}{"Title":"As much syrup as baklava","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is this year's summer sleeper, a small ($5M), independent movie that surprises everyone by winning over audiences and raking in cash to compare with the blockbusters (over $100M already). American movies have explored Jewish and Italian families endlessly, so it's a pleasure to focus on a different ethnicity, the Greek-American, in a romantic comedy that has much less meat than a moussaka but as much syrup as baklava.That such a work has reached our screens is down to co-producers Tom Hanks and his Greek-American wife Rita Wilson, following her enjoyment of one-woman stage show of Greek-Canadian Nia Vardalos. There are no big-name stars, just Nia Vardalos herself as ugly duckling Toula, John Corbett as her all-American suitor, and Michael Constantine as Toula's irascible father, who thinks that everything good in life and every word in our language come from the Greeks. This is a movie for a date or a diversion and we all need more of both.  "},{"Title":"This was a very funny and memorable movie","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It left me rolling on the floor with its subtle, and sometimes not so subtle, comedy. It was down to earth, wholesome, and very funny. Some of the many funny lines from the movie kept popping back into my brain days after seeing it. I had to see it a second time.I also liked it because it avoided the traps that most movies of this kind often fall into, such as when one main character tries to hide something embarrassing from a co-star by lying. You never felt like yelling at the screen. All the characters were thoroughly endearing.I gave it a 10.  "},{"Title":"Windex","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  From the start to the end I had no idea what was going on. And if somebody said something that was funny , what was it ? I didn't catch it. And the deal with the Windex bottle. Apparentley my party caught it but once again that question mark was in my head. I would take Short Circuit over this. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie in a summer void of quality films.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MBFGW, an enjoyable film of ethnic family life, comes at a time when Americans need to feel some levity and sense of family. This has been a season of special effects films, sequels, children's films and action figure films. There have been so few Hollywood-type films for mature and intelligent people this year, that MBFGW, attracted    those who rarely go to the movies, upon the recommendation of their friends and family. That is the reason the movie has done so well. We should all be thankful for independent films and foreign language films for giving us characters and people of substance, instead of car crashes, special effects and childlike animation.  "},{"Title":"What a great insight into one root of American Culture","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apart from Captain's Corellis Mandalin we don't get to see enough of the Greeks on TV or in the Cinema and too often they aren't played by themselves.  This was hilarious and just proves no matter how big the world is every culture has the same basis, interferring parents/families. Sometimes I thought it was about an Irish family, another time Italian and another time Jewish. As the world embraces the Asian sub-continent culture at the moment with 'The Guru' and the like we should all grab this piece of ancient Greece and hope for more.  "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE-AN OFFENSE TO ANY REASONABLY INTELLIGENT INDIVIDUAL","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is not only bad; it is actively offensive - not to Greeks or for that matter any particular ethnic group, but rather to one's intelligence. If you consider yourself to possess and/or appreciate real thinking in any way, avoid this movie at all costs.  It is a blissfully uncritical and willingly mainstream portrayal of relationships, with a bit of ethnic flavor thrown in give it the thoroughly misleading appearance of originality.  In truth it resembles, and is no doubt patterned after, the social psychology of a soap opera - that is, the movie resorts - nay, is carefully and actively structured around - mind-numbingly trite and tired stereotypes so ingrained into the mainstream masses as to be vulgar and annoying in its explicit celebration of conformity. "},{"Title":"Charming Comedy..","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's no wonder this movie is in the top five, a clever script and cast add to the already amusing plot. Nia Vardalous portrays Toula, a thirty-year-old Greek woman who lives with her parents and works at their family-owned Greek restaurant, called The Dancing Zorbas. Her whole being is based upon the fact that she will live Greek, marry a Greek man, and breed more Greeks. Her father, brilliantly played by Michael Constantine, believes that Greeks are the root of all life.The story sort of begin's when she is going through her 30-year frump stage. She then meets a young, handsome professor and seeing him pushes her to do something with her life. She starts going to college, working at a travel agency, and gives herself a new look. She then meets up with the professor again and they beging a very charming courtship. It isn't long before they get engaged and thus comes the Big Fat Greek Wedding. Toula's loud, nosy, big, but loving family must come to terms with this new non-Greek addition to the clan while she struggles to be accepted by her fiancee's reserved, traditional parents.All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It keeps the audience laughing throughout and is a good family movie with little language and slight sensuality. **** "},{"Title":"Something old, but something worth it","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a delightful film for (nearly) the whole family.  It's romantic, it's funny, it's well written, it's well acted.  There isn't any bad language or violence that I can recall, and only a tiny bit of nudity, which I guess makes it PG-able.Great character performances by Lanie Kazan, Michael Constantine and especially the zany Andrea Martin.  It's consistently clever and watchable all the way through.  True, there are lots of cliches, and the theme has been done a million times.  But it's very much worth the trip.I'd see it again in an instant. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with feel good laughter?","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie may not be perfect from a critical standpoint, but OH!,how I laughed.  I went with a mixed group of friends and was suresome would not care for the movie or find some criticism, butwhen I asked all 11 of us agreed it was a lot of fun and everyonewas smiling.How long has it been since you have been to a movie that makesyou REALLY laugh and  everyone universally has a great time?Go see this movie and tell me what you think! "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Delightful. Delightful. Delightful.Let's give MICHAEL CONSTANTINE a well-deserved Oscar for this role!~I don't care if it's BEST ACTOR or BEST ACTOR in a SUPPORTING ROLE......just give him an award.  He was delightful!OK..NIA....you were superb, too!  And I wouldn't be surprised if you are nominated and even WIN for Best Actress and Best Writing!Thanks for a refreshingly delightful and unforgettable comedic experience.  ) "}{"Title":"A big, fat delight!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My husband almost opted out of attending this movie; he was put off by the title and was afraid it might be a stereotyped, derogatory movie. Are we ever glad we didn't miss it; we haven't laughed so hard at a movie in many years!! We laughed until we cried!! If you've had a wedding in your family in recent years (our son got married last year), you can't miss this one. You'll see yourself SOMEWHERE in this movie. I'm looking forward to seeing this one again with some girlfriends real soon!  "},{"Title":"It's all about family.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Love it, hate it or just accept it, we are all members of a family, be it large or small.Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos, who also wrote the screenplay) is a member of a large extended family -- one that marries, makes babies and eats. That is after all the raison d'etre of a Greek family -- at least according to Ms Vardalos -- to breed and eat.There is an undeniable understatement of love in her big, fat, Greek family. In spite of how much they may make her uncomfortable (as an `Americanized' Greek) they -- and she -- share unconditional love. This is exemplified by her support of her brother in his search for a life outside the family restaurant business and her desire for a relationship with a &#145;xeno' (non-Greek or a foreigner to her father).John Corbett, in his best role yet, as the &#145;xeno,' is destined to fulfill both her needs and his. Their first meeting when she is still `slump girl' is a meeting that should go down in film history.Ms. Vardalos deserves an award for her transformation from `schlump' to royalty (ugly duckling to swan princess). Never before have I seen an actor transition from such an unattractive personality into a character with such beauty and grace. This is a near-flawless film every character is brilliantly cast, the photography is evocative of an earlier age of filmmaking and the score is a treasure of sounds seldom heard by most audiences.The casting of Andrea Martin, Lainie Kazan, Michael Constantine, and yes, even Joey Fatone (of the boy band &#145;NSync) is unparalleled genius.The history behind how this film was produced and made is as fascinating as the film itself -- miracles do still happen in Hollywood.This is going to be the best film of this year because it tells a wonderful, honest story about people and their relationships to each other -- with a great deal of love and family values woven in to make it far above the norm.  In other words... See It!   "},{"Title":"This one's a keeper!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen!  Yes, it does help to either be Greek or at least marry into a Greek American family, but I'm sure many enthusiastically ethnic people will enjoy this film. Oh, it takes me back 25 years to my own wedding! "},{"Title":"My Big Fat (insert your ethnicity here) Wedding!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I have seen it a couple times, recommended it to many friends, and each one seems to say the same thingThat could've been MY familyThis, coming from a lot of Jewish-, Italian-, Polish- and Spanish- background people. Of course, our British friends related to Ian's family more than Toula's, but that's not surprising either, is it?All-in-all, a good time will be had by all. What will be interesting is whether the pin-heads at the Academy will recognize it come Oscar time. If given the chance, I think it'll surprise more than Life is Beautiful, IMHO. "},{"Title":"Everyone can relate","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have lots of Hispanic friends, many from various combinations of Latino/Anglo backgrounds and I've seen many of the instances of the film first hand. It's not easy to blend different cultures together but this is what America is famous for and why the world looks to us as its role model for tolerance. This film teaches us an important lesson and does it with great humor and makes us laugh at our differences instead of fearing them. I feel sorry for those who didn't like this movie. I loved it!  "},{"Title":"Get ready for a celebration!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful, happy, and joyous movie.  Makes you want to learn the Greek-style of dancing.I haven't laughed this much since...well, I can't remember a movie that had people laughing and guffawing without restraint.Do yourself a favor and take someone you love -- your husband, your wife, your mother, your sister -- but someone.  But bring the tissue, not so much for the tears of sadness, but for the tears of laughter. "},{"Title":"Humorous from the Greek word . . .","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Michael Constantine cheated.  He probably experienced everything Toula's father experienced which made reliving it like falling off a log.  The story was rather trite, but well told.  Casting was excellent.  I didn't fall prey to the fact that the script was written by the star until looking at IMDB. Hat's off! "},{"Title":"Dumpy Girls CAN Have Fun","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So don't bother to shed those pounds.  Just get out and buy some contacts, go to school, show some gumption, do what you REALLY want to do and you'll have a movie made about you.  No, maybe not, but for someone who HATES mainstream movies, this one was REALLY enjoyable.  After seeing this movie continually shattering records, I says to myself, Self, there must be something good about this.  No one ever heard of these people, so maybe it's the writing. It was, and it was also 9/11.  Just as in the horrible wars, we turn to something funny and comforting to get away from the horror we're creating as well as the horror that has happened to us (e.g., the loss of our Bill of Rights under the civil rights terrorist, Ashcroft)Of course, Mr Hunk in the City, is also someone who drums to his own marching and will recognize the diamond in the rough that is the Greek lassie.  But of course, he doesn't spring uponst her until she cleans up her act, gets the contacts and loses the weight.The writing is great.  To include the wedding day zit was inspired.  We even follow them past the wedding day until she has her own child that must go to Greek school,  (Yes, celebrate diversity).  Of course, once again we must suspend reality, but this movie makes no pretense at being realistic he completely subverts himself to becoming a Greek god/guy who converts and lives in a house bought by his father-in-law (I won't say where).  His white bread Wasp parents are SO wimpy, that you see where he gets his from, but they are also well-bread (never mind).  It doesn't have to be Shakespeare right now, just give us some good clean laughs and we'll keep it at the theatres for months on end.  Isn't that what the degenerate Roman emperors gave their citizens...'bread and circuses', fiddling while Rome burned?  We're doing it again as we circle the drain of history and ready ourselves for new aggression to shore up the Bush administration's need for oil. "},{"Title":"everyone's story growing up isn't easy","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The most beautiful part of this film is that it's true. Whose family does not tug at one's heart while at the same time making you want to run away as far away and as soon as possible?Film-making at its very best romance and laughter, a story well told, strong and round characters, and enough left to the imagination to make movie-going fun.The director and the script know enough to not make everything obvious.I have not laughed so heartily in too long, and I thank my lucky stars that movies this good are still made. This one should win every statuette next spring. It is a classic! "},{"Title":"Greeks, Romance, Comedy, Quality unknown actors. What more can you want?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. There is nothing I can say that insults it in any way shape or form. It started out as a classic fairy tale story and then turned modern. Plain girl meets handsome boy. Plain girl is immediately attracted while handsome boy barely notices her. Plain girl gets fairy godmother makeover and becomes pretty girl. Pretty girl gets better job and meets handsome boy again. Thats where the fairy tale story ends and the hilarity begins.Now I'm not a fan of N Sync, but Joey Fatone was hilarious in this movie. He should really pursue a career in acting because I really enjoyed him.I loved the quirks of the Greek family, especially the father's obsession with Windex. I'm not going to get too descriptive with this because it ruins the fun of going to see the movie for the first time! I do recommend seeing this movie, I give it 9.5/10. "}{"Title":"Great Little Romantic Film that Could","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What an amazing achievement... for this small ethnic indie to make it so big.  How this film got made and marketed is not typical of the way things are done in Hollywood.  The extraordinary success tells all.  Movie execs must heed the results of this film.  I would love to see more films that do not quite fit Hollywood's neat little formulas.It also proves that tales dealing with ethnic people with ethnic issues in the story can be universal.  So many people are from somewhere else with unusual families that may not fit in. Obviously it did not hurt that Tom Hanks was involved.   Perhaps this is a message to Stars to step-up to the plate and help other independent film makers.It's been an interesting couple of years for films that mix love and ethnicity.  In addition to Greek Wedding there were two other great films Chocolat and Gabriela.  Hopefully we'll see more.Greek Wedding is a small film with a big heart.  I would strongly recommend this film to people who like romantic comedies and love stories.  "},{"Title":"The most delightful movie of 2002!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You can go with your best friend, a date, your mom, even your grandmother and know that you'll be laughing your head off with everyone else in the audience.  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is simply the most delightful movie I've seen in a long time.  Thanks to Nia Vardalos for sharing her quirky family with the rest of us! "},{"Title":"About a love as Caustic as Windex","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is very funny...superficially. It could just as easily been titled My Big Fat Italian Wedding, or Jewish Wedding or Polish Wedding or Korean Wedding. But not very far under the surface is a portrait of love as a controlling mechanism, love as a tool for smothering. Anyone who has grown up in a family like the one portrayed knows what I'm talking about, regardless of the ethnicity of the people involved. We use humour to survive it; they use guilt to control us. Funny yes...but painfully so. "},{"Title":"A great romantic comedy/date movie","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Beautifully written and acted, this movie is one of the best I have seen about intercultural romances. I am currently dating someone from another culture and me and my date kept laughing about the similarities in the concerns and highs/lows of the movies and real life. It's definately worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hilarious, sweet, and shockingly familiar at times... ) It may start out a bit slow, but it quickly picks up the pace and delivers an amusing and very entertaining show. If you're looking for a good laugh with some romance mixed in, then you should definitely check out this flick.  "},{"Title":"Cute, but not fantastic","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many friends told me it was great and I had to see it.  So my expectations were probably too high.  Lower your expectations, and you will enjoy the film.  I thought it was only ok--not bad, in fact good, but not up there with the best comedies I have seen. "},{"Title":"It was OK, but....","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was an OK film, and there were many funny moments. However, I found it a bit formulaic in both concept and execution. What bothered me the most was the one dimensional treatment given to Ian and his parents. Their characters had almost no style, and very little substance. This movie could have been much more interesting and funnier had there been some fleshing out of Ian's character, and why he acted the way he did. There could have been much more contrast between families, therefore, more drama and more humor.Ian's parents are also given short shrift as a couple of uptight WASPs with no personality, in my opinion.Toula is a fine character, but her family is so predictable, you know how this movie will end before the beginning credits are finished.All in all, I give this noble effort a 6/10. "},{"Title":"The best and most side-splitting movie I've seen in a long time!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious!  The casting is so superb, I really felt that the actors WERE the characters they portrayed.  I can't remember when I've gone to a movie for no other reason than it was just a great movie-- instead of because it had a favorite actor I wanted to see.  I've recommended it to many people and they ALL have reported back to me the same thing and thanked me profusely for the recommendation.  I think I'll go see it again (for the third time) this weekend . . . "},{"Title":"Funny is an understatement!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At the behest of my wife, I went to see what I knew would surely be another Film a'la Femme.  I was quite wrong.  Yes, it is a romantic comedy with a reasonably predictable story line, but once the movie got on a roll, I didn't stop laughing.  I'll never look at Windex the same again.  If this film isn't in the running for one or more best comedy awards, none should be.  See it and have fun! "},{"Title":"Welcome to Little Greece (or Italy, China, etc.)","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As amember of a non-gringo family living in America I can attest to the reality and exactitude in delivering a snapshot of my family and any other family that tries to keep its own culture and adapt it to its surroundings. I'd have to admit that my family is Argentine-Italian by nature but I saw so many images of my life and felt represented so many times that I could not deny how universal and human the movie is. While I laughed so hard as I couldn't remember I was also taken to many deep places in my heart and mind. I was reminded how overwheelming can my family be and how much they care for me at the same time. I was surprised at how similar the Greek and Italian 'peccadilloes' were and discovered how human we all are after all. In a time where we spend most of the time learning about each other just to find an excuse to hate more it is definetely a garden of rest a movie which shows how silly and wonderfull we all are and what a good time we can all have. After all, we can be oranges and apples but at the end we are all fruits ;-) "}{"Title":"very very entertaining","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How any one could give it a 5 or below is beyond me. it was a very family orented movie and should bring back memories of any large extended family. Hollywood will over react as they usually do and try to over do a new production with Britney Spears in the lead "},{"Title":"If you read no other review this summer, read this one!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That I didn't like this movie is of little consequence. Everybody else liked it, so what does it matter what I think. However, there is one big fat scary detail that I do think needs to be pointed out. We're making this movie into one of the most successful movies of all time and the indisputable fact is that the lead can't act! What's Hollywood going to think? I'll tell you what they're thinking, that the masses  can't distinguish bad acting. When Tom opened this movie in one art house he knew the lead was a stiff. He rightly thought to spare us from Nia. Rita, it doesn't matter if we make the money back. Sure we should have insisted Nia let a real actress do the role, but you live and learn! If even a guy who sees everything in black & white like me has new suspicions that the masses are fine with bad acting, then it must not be too hard to figure out. I mean, sure, the chances are that this sort of thing won't get out of control, but if it does, don't blame Tom. Or me. Blame Rita.   "},{"Title":"FUN","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great fun. I haven't laughed this much in a movie in ages! It's one of those movies where you keep on waiting for the usual something goes wrong syndrome, but it never really does. It's just a fun, feel good and smart movie. Don't walk... run to see it. "},{"Title":"Greatly Enjoyable","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can keep this review short because this film is simply and purely enjoyable. It is not weighted down with the need to know humongous back stories, but rather the backstory can be found within our own day to day apprehension about our own world and predominantly our own families.This film is a true comedy, not a comedic spectacle with juvenile humor (except, where of course, it is very appropriate). The film truly shows the coming of age story does not always have to be about teens. It is truly a comedy and truly worth watching. Similar to the Royal Tennenbaums. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Fun, Sweet Movie","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It would have been a little better if it had been set in the '60s - it felt somewhat dated for being set in current day (or at least in the '90s).  That said, it was such a delight to see Micheal Constantine and Laine Kazan on the big screen.  Not to mention John Corbett.  And Nia Vardalos was kind of a repressed Kathy Najimy and was completely charming.  Just go to laugh and have a good time. "},{"Title":"A movie for everyone to enjoy!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a thoroughly enjoyable movie, the first movie I have been to in a long time where many in the audience applauded at the end.  The kids  behind me were laughing as was the 75-year old man sitting next to me.  But this was more than a silly comedy like the title suggests.  It is also a movie very much about love and family.  If only everyone could find someone as caring and loving as Ian and Toula were with each other! "},{"Title":"Delightful Little Sleeper","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I understand it, this film came out in May as a low-budget film, and then took off when the public had a chance to see it.  I saw it on September 8 and had to go out of town to see it.  The film would have been worth a trip to Mariposa! This is an absolutely sparkling gem of a movie! The dialog keeps you laughing constantly and you don't worry about bothering anyone else in the theatre because they are all laughing too.  You fall in love with Toula's family and Toula herself as the movie progresses and you see the wonderful, whacky family attempting to welcome the non-Greek Miller into the family.  The hilarious attempts by the fiance to pronounce Greek phrases his prospective brother-in-law, Angelo, gives him will have you on the floor. The scenes of interaction when the two families meet for the first time add to the growing charm of this little film, and I hope to see it garner some Oscars when the academy meets next. "},{"Title":"I cried during most of this movie I was laughing so hard","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have a big family, you will relate to this movie. If you don't, you'll know what to expect when you meet someone who does. My family gets together for all holidays and camping. Not as big as the one in the movie but close. This movie had me laughing after about 15 minutes and I didn't stop until the end. Forget about the arguments against stereotyping and so forth. Go expecting to laugh and you will!  "},{"Title":"Great, Refreshing","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have seen in a long time. It has been a joy to take friends and relatives to see it, and to recommend it %100!  If you have not seen it... GO!!!!!!!!!!  You will not be sorry. We are going to buy this one on DVD so we can have it see again. It is truly a refreshing picture that the whole family will enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fabulously funny","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone, white bread or not, with relatives will relate to this.  Sure, it's over-the-top, but so is romance.  A great, feel-good movie.  I thought I had a boring family until I met my wife to be, and, to her, mine was the Greek family in this movie! "}{"Title":"This movie is a sleeper","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my friends and I decided to see this movie, i wasn't expecting much, but was very pleasantly suprised with the high level of entertainment that this movie possesses. Every actor/actress in the movie played their part extremely well, and i was suprised to see Joey Fatone of N'sync in it, even though i am definently not a fan of his group. Everyone out there who reads this and hasn't seen My Big Fat Greek Wedding should go see in NOW!! "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now although My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding may be a tried and true formula, it was among the most genuinely entertaining evenings I have had the pleasure of enjoying in a long time.  The film is simply delightful, and hits the viewer squarely the eyes, ears and heart.  Nia Vardalous is totally convincing and hilarious, and her script resonates despite your nationality.  Even though I have never attended a Greek wedding and have extremely limited experiences with Greek culture, there was some sort of universality to the ethic humor that was effective.  Every supporting player in the cast filled their role perfectly, playing the material up to the nines.  Much has been said about this being a veritable anti-summer movie summer, and films like My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding, Insomnia and Road to Perdition make it difficult to disagree.  I would truly, strongly, highly, enthusiastically recommend this film.  You owe it to yourself to make up for Star Wars Episode II. "},{"Title":"A heart-warming and really funny movie!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting it to be blend and boring, but straight away it grabbed me and started putting this fuzzy warm feeling and making the smile get wider and the laughs to start flowing.Ethnic humour to its best, added with a bit of romance gives this thoroughly entertaining movie. I'd watch it with a girl if you a guy or otherwise. It may spark something between you too. hehe. Its about family which is the most important thing in anyones life.I'd give it a 9/10 for being highly entertaining! "},{"Title":"A Pleasure to Watch","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching the first hour of the movie I was quite taken aback, being a greek myself wouldn't expect such cultural-centric behaviour from a greek family. Then I thought oh well, that's a family living in usa. And it's quite true, being away from home, makes all these cultural characteristics stronger, wanting them never to leave your life. I believe an american, canadian, british, german, italian or whatever family would have similar behaviour over local customs living on a distant land. So, I pushed back my personal feelings about giving a bad name to greeks(because they were wrong) and watched the rest of the movie.It's a nice movie I would put in the genre of ethnic comedies. An ethnic movie, not because it's about a greek family, but because it's about a greek family speaking english)It's funny, it's about love and caring, about cultural differences and how to overcome them. It's quite a nice movie actually that I wouldn't spoil telling you what the plot is.I'd say 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Finally---A 2002 Summer Movie Worth Seeing!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I intentionally avoided the trailers and commercials for this film, having decided I wanted to see it simply because of the title, the poster, and the fact that it was not produced by a major studio.  (The last two movies I went to see in the theater---Road to Perdition and Blood Work---were big-money studio projects that were terrible.)  I wanted to see a fun, light-hearted romantic comedy, and that's exactly what this film is.Major kudos to Nia Vardalos, not only for writing a gem of a screenplay, but for pulling off the lead role perfectly.  Her performance features a true rarity---understated acting---along with perfect facial expressions, and realistic portrayal of a woman caught between tradition and family and a love that seems to be impossible.  of course the movie veers into caricature occasionally---that's what's FUN about it people.  (And to make an obvious point, Ms. Vardalos did not pull out a culture that was non-offensive and plug it into a turn-key plot, as someone wrote before.  She used HER OWN CULTURE, which was very probably what inspired this script in the first place!) As a person who comes from no culture, I had the hilarious experience of spending half this movie wishing I came from a big and close-knit ethnic family, and the other half being fervently glad I do not!  The movie was touching, funny, and even meaningful, as it repeatedly makes the point, as spoken by Toula's brother  Don't let your family define who you are, but let it be a part of who you become.Great film.  Go see it, and take a fun friend with you!  If you have the added bonus of seeing it at the Sherman Oaks Galleria (of Valley Girl fame) as I did, there will be a raucous crowd to laugh with you through the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this charmer","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Since when do movies have to be politically correct?!I had no expectations going in to see this film and was more than pleasantly surprised by the humor, cultural references and characters.  Although I did think independent, educated Ian was a little too accepting of the Toula's family/ways (example it seemed like the Baptism was just another family outing to him) the story was captivating and very, very funny.  By the way, the theater in which I saw the film was full, even though MBFGW has been out for several months now, so what does that tell you?  -)As for those viewers who wrote something like Ian didn't love Toula until she became beautiful remember what he told her over dinner, about seeing her at her family's restaurant I don't remember 'frump girl,' I just remember coming alive when I met you.  I give this movie a 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Fun, charming, and one of lifes unexpected pleasures","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel that the unapologetic sincerity of this movie's writer has provided an opportunity for the rest of us to get a funny, and endearing, glimpse into another culture. Considering that MBFGW has been presented without the usual superfical Hollywood pretense this movie completely deserves to be a hit.Great job Nia Vardalos. And Rita and Tom, nice to know there are super stars out there with all the feet on the ground. "},{"Title":"Fun, charming, and one of lifes unexpected pleasures","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel that the unapologetic sincerity of this movie's writer has provided an opportunity for the rest of us to get a funny, and endearing, glimpse into another culture. Considering that MBFGW has been presented without the usual superfical Hollywood pretense this movie does really completely deserves to be a hit.Great job Nia Vardalos. And Rita and Tom, nice to know there are super stars out there with all the feet on the ground. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Review","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw MBFGW yesterday, actually. Incredibly cute, funny, and pleasant surprise since I'm NOT a fan of wedding movies. To be honest, I only went because it was an indie film!But I found it to be a break from the usual contrived love story. The heroine isn't a drop-dead gorgeous, paper-thin, fake Hollywood Barbie type, so she's easier to relate to than most overhyped movie stars. Throw in her dry wit and colorful Greek family, and you have one of the most charming movies of 2002. And, hey, take the family! My 10-year-old brother enjoyed it just as much as I did, as did my grandma (75) and mom (40).Personally, though, I believe in order to fully enjoy an ethnic comedy such as MBFGW, you have to have at least a modicum of experience living in a close-knit homogenic family. For example, my dad's Italian family is almost a carbon copy of Toula's, only...not...Greek. I'm sure people who haven't lived in such a close cultural family can appreciate and enjoy this film, though probably not as much as people who have.But, hey, aren't all realistic fiction-y type movies like that? =) "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Film Disaster","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MBFGW tries to fit into the 'light comedy romance' genre, and doesn't do a good job in any direction. Box office numbers aside, this film leaves much to be desired weak plot, mediocre acting, and formulaic writing wrestled a few half-hearted laughs from the audience.The plot is centered around the Greek culture's rejection of all other culture. Toula, a single Greek woman, wants change, and finds it when non-Greek Ian walks into her life one day. The orthodox Greek family ('the family') that Toula is part of maintains a cultural wall around them. The family has their own restaurant, butcher, travel agency, church, etc.The family rejects others by only learning old Greek tradition and remaining ignorant of the other cultures that surround them (they live in Chicago). Their garage door is painted like the flag of Greece, and marble statues and a fountain adorn the front lawn for all their neighbors to see. When it is time for wedding invitations, the front is a Greek flag despite that Ian and his family are not of Greek descent.The family refuses to go anyplace but Greek-identified places. The wedding reception must take place in a Greek restaurant despite Ian's family suggesting their country club.In order to marry Toula, Ian must conform to the family's view of the world or face rejection. Ian and Toula accept this dictum with only a whimper, weakening the characters. Ian and his family are completely ignored in making any of the wedding plans because they are outsiders ('exos'). Everything the family does comes with strings. In order to change jobs, Toula must have help to con her father into thinking it was his idea - she can't just ask (not that she needs to ask - she's 30!). Even the ostensibly generous wedding gift - a house - from her father puts the now-married couple next door so the family can keep an eye on them.All of this cultural rejection was supposed to be humorous. Instead, the family comes across as hopelessly self-centered and ignorant, imposing their values on Toula and Ian like a rubber stamp.The writing had lots of little 'cute' jokes small things that might make you smile, but never beyond that. Unfortunately, this was substituted for any real humor that might have made the film more enjoyable. The father believes Windex can cure all ailments. Sprinkled throughout the movie are scenes where he sprays it on bruises, etc. The first time was amusing, with the rest quickly slipping into tedium.Any originality that could have been put into the seemingly interesting idea of a comedy about a Greek wedding was lost with the realization that most any culture could have been substituted into the script. How about, My Big Fat African Wedding, or, My Big Fat Indian Wedding? The writer pulled out a culture that was non-offensive, and stuffed it into a turn-key script.The only 'big' name in this film is John Corbett, best known for his work in the tv series Northern Exposure. While he isn't given much to work with, his character remained 2-dimensional and lifeless. I would have enjoyed seeing Ian and Toula as they develop into lovers, but instead we are handed a few awkward scenes where Corbett fumbles through his lines. Vardalos, playing Toula, doesn't do much better.I wanted to like MBFGW. Unfortunately, there were too many elements missing. The weak plot, almost non-existent comedy, and poor acting were unavoidable obstacles to anyone's viewing pleasure. I watched MBFGW in the theater, and mostly regret it.  "}{"Title":"A rare breath of fresh air!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So rarely does a movie with such honest and light hearted humor reach the mainstream public, never mind achieve box office success.  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of those very rare movies.Born of a Greek father and non-Greek mother, I can honestly attest to many of the characters and scenes that are portrayed in the movie.  It brings back distant memories that suddenly came back sharply into focus - the feeling of being out-of-step with my non-Greek peers at school who could not spell or pronounce my last name - the acerbically funny and crazy comments from aunts, uncles and cousins - the madness of family get-togethers (which I can now look back upon with a humorous eye)A very special thanks goes to Nia Vardalos for writing this movie in the first place, the director for recruiting such great acting talent such as Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan, and for sharing her and many others' life experiences using a wonderfully funny and illustrative movie.Efcharisto!Le Grecque "},{"Title":"finally a worth while comedy!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  see this movie and you will soon be comparing the characters to your aunts and uncles.  it is a shame that there are not any more simple yet hilarious movies like this. I loved It.  This is the best movie of all time.  Better than Titanic and English Patient (both long and boring) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly charming and funny","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was a bit hesitant about this movie after reading a negative review that used words such as shrill and cliche to describe My Big Fat Greek Wedding and its characters. I myself found the movie to be sweet, surprising, and at times hilarious. What the reviewer calls shrill, I call colorful and interesting. The movie shows that all families are crazy on some level -- some are just more loud and obvious about it. People have been calling this an ethnic comedy, but fundamentally it's just about all the idiosyncrasies that make a family and about the kind of love that can emerge from embracing those differences. If you're not opposed to a movie making you feel good, you might want to check out My Big Fat Greek Wedding. I haven't laughed so much in a long time at a movie I could see with my parents or with children and not be embarrassed.  "},{"Title":"Wow!!!  No sex, drugs, blood, SFX!!!  Is it POSSIBLE??","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice to come out of a theater with squinty eyes from laughing, crying, and just generally having just been entertained.  Characters were developed and actually became familiar.  Such a slice of our life, our country, and our psyche.Thanks Rita for picking up on this one!! "},{"Title":"You can't beat the Greeks!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie with some former neighbors of mine, and coming from a Greek family, I was excited to see how it would turn out. I almost exploded from laughing so hard several times (especially with the purposely mistranslated Greek). I also liked the Windex jokes and the thought that love can happen no matter who you are. Without this movie, comedy would be a pointless bunch of physical comedy. With it, it does so, but very cleverly has a plot (Jim Carrey and Mike Myers take note...)   "},{"Title":"Very predictable, but there are worse movies out there","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I heard good things about this movie I figured that I wouldn't mind seeing it.  While it was not worst movie I have ever seen, it certainly is not even close to the best or even what I would call good enough to be watched a second time.  There is no plot or conflict and there isn't much in the way of character development and the movie is extremely, extremely, predictable.  Don't get me wrong, there are a few mildly funny parts in this movie, but then again it is not targeted at the 18-25 year old market.  If you are a member of an older generation and if you have close contact with a greek or ethinc family you will probably enjoy this movie, but as for me, I'll pass on it.P.S. John Corbett, GET A GOD DAMN HAIRCUT!!!! "},{"Title":"Best Feel Good Movie of the Year","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This family movie with only one known actor, Michael Constantine, was deliciously funny and riveting in its use of cultural symbols and stereotypes to highlight mostly the good points in humorous ways about cultural clashes.  There are some somber moments and there are some hilarious scenes, all wrapped up in the sensitive portrait of the not some glamorous woman with a bunch of pent up vitality and inner charm that wait to burst out into the open.  This movie brings out the good in everyone and a movie that lights up, penetrating the underbelly of Greek-ism, and touching our hearts like a nice warm serving of mother's baklava.  One of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a flawless romantic comedy.  It uses ethnic humor at a perfectly tasteful and non-offensive level.  The film also shows how two totally opposite culture types can come together and enjoy all that life has to offer.  OPA!!! "},{"Title":"I think this movie was great for the whole family and could have been used in any nationality.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great for everyone. I saw this movie twice within three days and laughed at the same parts both times. Every part was funny, from her standing like a statue towards Ian the first time she saw him, to everything being cured by Windex. My friend and I even wanted to try! Obviously we couldn't because, well duh, it could kill us! I give this movie 10 stars and everyone should see it! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but WHY Chicago?","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was an entertaining movie, sure. I haven't been to see a movie in a long time where the audience was laughing so much. I really hope movies like this will help people see that you don't need big names and a big budget to make an entertaining movie (but hey, having Tom Hanks behind it can't hurt).My biggest problem with the movie, however, was the question of WHY it set in Chicago. It made no difference to the plot, and it was so obviously Toronto and with so many local actors that it seemed pointless to say otherwise.I'm from Toronto, so I'm biased, but would you (Mr./Ms. Middle America USA) somehow not enjoy the movie if it was set in Toronto rather than Chicago? Would you tell your friends It was a really funny movie, I'd suggest you go see it, but no, it was set in a foreign land so don't go? Did people everywhere outside of Toronto get upset when Mini Me was wearing the Toronto Maple Leafs shirt in Goldmember? Or when the fake CNN news ticker said Toronto voted best city in the world? "}{"Title":"a big fat waste of time","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i found this movie to be totally unrealistic, offensive and overly-simplistic.  it perpetuates traditional and oppressive ideas about what it means to be female, particularly when unpartnered.  the story begins with toula, a frumpy and introverted woman, who like cindarella, lands her prince when she miraculously becomes seemingly beautiful.  and, her prince is played by john corbett, making his role as aidan, stale if not pathetic.i also wonder what the response would be to this movie if it had been written by a non-greek (though i wonder about the depictions of greek culture).i was angered often during the movie as i found myself (also thirty something and single-and beautiful!!) stating this is so far fetched. further, i was perplexed at the roars of laughter emitting from the audience which made me wonder what has happened to our society and our standards for intelligent humour?  it is hard to laugh when unrealistic and offensive fairly tales are being depicted as a form of humour and reality!!in closing, the only good thing about this adventure was the popcorn! "},{"Title":"I'm Lebanese, and boy, can I ever relate...","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people here have said one thing they had against the film initially was the inclusion of Joey Fatone of 'N Sync.  I'm just the opposite -- an 'N Sync fan who may never have heard of this movie if not for his part in it. So I went, I saw, and except for the brief moments he was actually onscreen (pop-haters, never fear -- he probably doesn't have five scenes in the whole film) I forgot that Fatone was even there. I'm a teenage girl and a big fan of romantic comedies, but it's nearly impossible in the new millennium to find one without vulgarities peppered all over it.  I can't remember the last time I saw a PG-rated movie that didn't come from the Disney animated studios.  I haven't seen such an all out GOOD MOVIE since Fellowship of the Ring, and not such a perfect piece of laugh-out-loud escapism since The Emperor's New Groove.  This definitely isn't a kiddie movie, but it manages to be funny without being crude, quite an accomplishment these days. As for the ethno-centricity of the plot -- yes, maybe so.  I can see where this movie would be much more amusing to someone who's lived with a family like that.  The party I went with was myself (a fourth-generation Lebanese girl) and three WASPs, and while we all loved the movie, I was giggling for a much longer time afterwards than my friends, if only because I read so many of my friends and family into the film. I almost didn't put my review down, seeing as almost everyone else loved it as much as I did, but I don't think enough good things can be said for this film.  If there isn't a Best Comedy nomination in this film's future, there is truly no justice in the world.  It might have been better if Fatone had had more scenes, but aside from that one pop fan's gripe, it's easily the best comedy of the year. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For me the best way to judge a comedy is how funny was it?.  This movie is very funny.  I haven't laughed out loud so much at a movie in years.  And I had plenty of company in the packed theater when I saw it.  But best of all, it's a comedy that doesn't draw it's laughs from dirty jokes and sexual innuendo, and that's become all too rare these days.  I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Oompah!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. It was definetly not what I expected.It's about a Greek girl whos parents always tell her to find a Greek husband her father states that she's so old, but she has alot of trouble finding Mr. Right. Then, one day she meets the man of her dreams. They fall in love, and then decide to get married. But there's one problem keeping her wacky Greek family away. You should really see this movie. It's been out for 6 months already, and it's making more money each week, pretty good for an indie movie. And, this Labor Day weekend which, of course, will not make any money, this movie will come out first. Oompah!  "},{"Title":"The most consistently funny movie that I have ever seen!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had it all. A beginning, a middle, and an end. It was produced with no violence, no sexual content, and no vulgar language. And as evidenced by its longevity, the movie going public doesn't need the above to enjoy a movie. A big bravo to the writer and the excellent cast. I saw it at a 5 oclock showing last week and the theater was almost filled. There was so much laughter I'm sure that I missed some of the funny lines. I will be seeing it again. Hey Hollywood, please take a good long look at this type of movie. You don't need $100,000,000 budgets, and you don't need super stars to be successful.A big thank-you to Tom Hanks,and his wife, Rita Wilson for producing this wonderful film.   "},{"Title":"A film with a really good heart.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watch films to be entertained. For persons like myself this was a great film. It is a film with a really good heart for people. The movie's characters are in ways odd, eccentric, and certainly not anyone to be found in People magazine, but they are very likeable. The comedy touch is very deft. The makers of the film have an outstanding sense of humor and a real touch for what will come across on the screen as funny. The young man looks at the unlikely heroine and she slinks down behind the office water cooler out of fear, embarrassment, and being stunned that he is so attractive and seems to be interested in her. Her reaction is so unexpected that it is hilarious.There are so many moments in the film where the comedy is inventive,well-timed and hits the mark. There are many good performances in the film, but I was struck by how well Michael Constantine, the much seen television character actor of past years, plays the father. Lanie Kazan, as well, is terrific as the mother. The screenwriter and heroine, Nia Vardalos, should be very proud of her work. As should the director, Joel Zwick. At certain moments in the film each of the leading characters in their own turn delivers some very wise and profound observations about people and life. These little gems are inserted with taste amid all the fun. This is good old fashioned movie-making. Above all the film has a kind and gentle heart. Less than beautiful people are attractive. Our families may at times lack tact and taste but they love us. We were in a theatre full of a cross-section of people, including many adults who proved with this film that they will come out to the theatres if they are given a really entertaining movie. To be in theatres all these weeks and move up onto the domestic top five box-office list is a testimony to the people who made the film and to the people who enjoyed it so much they had to tell their friends.    "},{"Title":"a great movie-soon to be a classic","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't laughed so hard.  I married from a wasp family into a large Irish-Catholic family and can understand.  I also was the subject a large eruption on my wedding morning (fortunately under the bangs of my hair). This is destined to become a classic. "},{"Title":"I am so confused","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's good for people to have fun, and so I guess I'm glad that so many people had so much fun seeing this movie, but...I don't usually write negative reviews.  I just want anyone else out there who hated this movie to know that they are not alone.  I feel completely flabbergasted by all the positive reviews I see on IMDb, and by the fact that the movie is back in my local theater as I write this.  I thought it was one of the worst movies I had ever seen - no conflict, no character, no point, and nothing that made me laugh.  I felt nothing while I sat in the theater except that I hoped my partner wouldn't hate me too much for suggesting we see this movie.Sorry to be so negative.  I do have something important to say - if you liked this movie a lot, and you look at the movies that IMDb recommends based on this movie, you might be in for a shock.  For some strange reason, IMDb recommends the movie Happiness for those of you who enjoyed Big Fat Greek Wedding.  Happiness has got to be the most dark, traumatic, disturbing, emotionally draining, and horrifying movie I have *ever* watched.  I can only assume it is on the recommendations list as a mistake, or as a horrible joke.  It is the exact opposite of a feel-good movie. My recommendation for a good wedding movie is Monsoon Wedding - a brilliant mixture of love, hate, jealousy, anger, forgiveness, passion, joy, hope, and melancholia - I saw it a few weeks after Big Fat Greek Wedding and thought Now THERE'S a wedding movie! "},{"Title":"Worth every dime!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who says you need a big budget or a big cast to make an incredible movie!  My Big Fat Greek Wedding proves that you don't! It is without a doubt the best romantic comedy or even the best movie I've seen in a long time (and I see A LOT of them). It is extremely funny, smart, touching but most of all original.  It is a statement to Hollywood that money or face recognition are not the only way to bring people to the theater. Sometimes good MOVIE does the trick! "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. First of all, I'm Greek, so thats the whole reason I wanted to go see the movie in the first place, and to see how the family was so similar to mine, blew my mind. I, someday, want to have a big, fat, Greek wedding, and oh, I know its going to be hectic. I just want to say to those who haven't seen it, see it, guarantee you'll like it. And to those who might know someone thats Greek, see it and maybe then you'll understand us a little better! "}{"Title":"Familiar & fantastic - Leaves you feeling like one of the family","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hallelujah for this film!  In a market where getting a laugh has been reduced to predictable one-liners and raunchy site-gags, and the Romantic Comedy has been on its way to a much deserved grave, My Big Fat Greek Wedding breathes new life into these ailing genres.Though everyone who I know who has watched this movie has enjoyed it, it is those born to European parents that fell in love with it.  I found myself agape at the similarities between the Portokalos family and my own.  Not only the strict old-school beliefs and customs, but the endearing relationships between Toula and her family.  the laugh-out-loud familiarity of their personality types had me relating to her so deeply, that i felt happy when she was happy, and mortified when she started to blush.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is an amazingly touching movie.  Showcasing the love (albeit intrusive love) of family, and the desire to balance that love with personal fulfillment.And a special treat for Canadian audiences, is the HUGE number of Canadian actors in this film - nice to see Nia Vardalos sticking to her roots in more ways than one.  ) "},{"Title":"A funny no violence, no sex,no foul language movie!!!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I thoroughly enjoyed this one. Great cast! Humor that was understandable and clean. And the ethnicity was tastefully done, and if you have ever known a Greek family, you will relate to it. Why can't more movies like this be made? "},{"Title":"Even better than the ads for it on TV.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few movies that they didn't show all the best parts of the movie in the TV advertising. It's a very upbeat movie and I really enjoyed it.  My husband and I watched it on a flight between Seattle and Atlanta.  I rented the headphones and he didn't. He now wants to see it and hear the dialog as well because to him it looked funny! "},{"Title":"Sounds dated","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i havnt commented on a movie I havent seen before but I feel I must here. As an Australian born Greek I must say this film sounds like it is already going to annoy me as cliched stereotypical unoriginal garbage. Here In Australia (Melbourne has the largest Greek population outside Greece) we have seen this sort of thing over and over during the last 15 years in a similiar manner to the Italians or Mexican cliches of some American films. But I shouldnt judge (too much anyway) before seeing it, so I will wait patiently and hope that the dialogue and performances make up for a somewhat tired sounding story. "},{"Title":"First cute, feel-good movie of the summer","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alright. I admit it. I really didn't want to see this movie. Why didn't I want to see it? First, because my mother kept pestering me about it. I would always make up excuses (cough, cough, I'm sick, etc). So, she eventually wound up seeing it with my aunt (her sister). She enjoyed it and made me feel bad for not wanting to see it with her. The second reason I didn't want to see it is because Joey Fatone (from N'Sync) is in it. I had suspicions that they cast him not because of his acting abilities, but because of N'Sync's huge fan base of rabid pre-teen girls who would flock to the theaters to see him. Third, I just didn't think I would enjoy it much.Well, yesterday, my friend Cathy and I decided to go to the movies, since we had nothing better to do. We were in the mood to see a good chick flick, so we went to see 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding'.I must say, I was pleasantly surprised that I was totally wrong about the film. Sure, there were a lot of ethnic jokes, but they were all in good taste...and yes, the whole family acted a little old fashioned when it came to her (Toula's) choice of a husband, which I found a little far-fetched in this day and age. I mean, even my grandparents who are in their 70's (God bless them) and grew up in very traditional families that immigrated from Mexico, wouldn't/don't care about the ethnic background of any of their grandchildren's choice of mate. But I looked past those flaws. If the family were more accepting of non-Greeks, the movie would've been flat.What did I love about this movie? The way Toula and Ian met by making complete fools out of themselves. The huge lawn party for Toula and Ian's families to meet for the first time, complete with lambs roasting on a spit, much to Ian's parent's horror. Classic.All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, as did my friend Cathy. At one point in the movie (hint old lady ass-kicking), I had tears coming out of my eyes from laughing so hard. So if you're tired of the regurgitated action movies ('Men In Black II') and if you're in the mood for light-hearted, feel-good comedy, I suggest you see 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding'. "},{"Title":"best movie I have seen in a long time","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Excellent movie, wonderfully written. I think that this has been one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. Wonderful story, and wonderfully written, and directed. Nia Vardalos, I will be looking for MORE of your work. thank you.  "},{"Title":"Ethnic humor transcends ethnicity","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I left the theater, I overheard a ten-year-old say to his mother, I didn't laugh once.  She replied, In twenty years, you'll laugh.  I think she was right.  This is a comedy for adults, and specifically, the adult children of immigrant parents.  (Incidentally, when I say that this is a comedy for adults, I do not mean that there was anything even slightly offensive about the language.  I mean that it is one that adults will appreciate, not children.)I am not Greek, nor am I married to a Greek, but I identified with this movie.  My ethnic background is WASP on my father's side, and Middle-European Jewish on my mother's side.  Toula's family reminded me very much of my Jewish family.  The wedding reception could have been the party after my cousin Eli's bar mitzvah.  Gus' comment about there being two kinds of people in the world, Greeks and those who wish they were Greeks could have been said by my Aunt Pauline, substituting the word Jew for Greek. As I said to my wife, put yarmulkas on these peoples' heads, and they could be my relatives.And it was a love story I could believe.  It was not two impossibly beautiful people like Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, but two adults who did have real chemistry.  (In the series of scenes in which Ian keeps dropping Toula off after their dates, I could feel the sexual frustration.)  I believed these people, and I believed this family.  Toula's brother's attempts to embarass Ian by feeding him inappropriate Greek phrases was really funny.All-in-all, I enjoyed this movie, more than any other I have seen this summer. "},{"Title":"Wow what a pleasant surprise!!!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow what a pleasant surprise!!! I did not expect that, I laugh all along! I guess if you are a bit depressed like I was, go see this movie and you'll feel much better! It was well directed and acted superbly! Bon travail!!! A la prochaine... "},{"Title":"Bring on the Oscar nominations...","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent movie! The crowd kept laughing throughout the entire film. At the end, it even brought tears to some audiences' eyes. I see Oscar nominations for best supporting actor (Constantine) , best supporting actress (Martin) , best original screenplay (Vardalos) and MAYBE best actress (Vardalos) and best film. Must see for all ages. Movie has universal appeal. Finally a movie about a big traditional family. If this film rolls out to 2,000 theatres next month, it might finish #1! I will go see it again! 10/10 "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I give this movie a 7 - begrudgingly. Every once in a while you go to a movie (comedy) and everyone laughs their ass off and you think to yourself, What exactly is so funny? Needless to say, this was one of those times for me. It is hard to say what percentage of the audience laughed their asses off because even if only 50% of them did, it would still be a lot of ass left in the seat. And, I did notice that a lot of people had baggy pants when they left. But, I assume that because this movie is the top grosser of the summer, and it had such little fanfare, that it must be nearly universally loved by audiences everywhere. In fact, that is the reason I was so eagerly anticipating it. The truth is I only laughed briefly a couple times and chuckled once or twice otherwise. I guess the fact that it was ethnic humor just didn't quite hit my funny bone.Ironically, one of my two favorite genres is romantic comedy. And, that is what this would be considered. In order for me to like this type of movie I only have two requirements 1) Must be romantic and 2) Must be a comedy. Duh. Now, in order to be romantic, you truly must care about the characters. You must like them. If you like them, you enjoy seeing them happy. I didn't like them. She was bland (about a 3 on a scale of Meg Ryan's 10). And, he was little more than a stick figure thrown in to make the plot complete. In fact, the movie was less about them (romance) and more about them in relation her family.In order to be a comedy, you have to laugh. I didn't. I realize that most people did. I also accept the fact that it was very well done. Because of that, and only because of that, do I give it a 7. My time would have been much better spent staying home on that Saturday night and watching the first game of the season for the Nebraska Cornhuskers or the 3rd preseason game of the Chiefs or the running of the Bristol 400. In fact, I cannot think of a Saturday night that has ever had better sports. But, alas, I spent it with the family watching this movie.Ok, one more thought. My favorite movies are romantic comedies. I also do not like stand alone jokes. Too simplistic. I like situation comedy. However, earlier in the day, I heard a joke. Now, remember, I never laugh at jokes, but I love situation comedies. So, all the more interesting that I didn't laugh at the movie, but I laughed my ass off on the joke. Maybe because my ass was already laughed off before I went to the movie, I had nothing left to give.Two male neighbors were talking over a fence. One of the neighbors had a dog. The dog stopped running around and started licking himself. The neighbor said to the dog owner, Man, I wish I could do that!, to which the dog owner replied, I don't know. I think he would bite you. Now THAT'S funny!  "}{"Title":"A big fat enjoyable movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We had so many people tell us that that they enjoyed this movie, that we just had to see it.  We were not disappointed, it is a delightful film that everyone can relate to,Greek or not.  We laughed ourselves silly. "},{"Title":"excellent...funny...delightful","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a delight to laugh from the minute the movie starts to the minute it ends!  I went on a beautiful Saturday afternoon - trying to kill two hours - before I went to a wedding.  The theater, with the exception of the first few rows, was full.  We laughed at both the visual jokes and the verbal humor.  It is not a movie where one has to think nor is it full of mindless gags!  If the title doesn't make one smile, then one shouldn't go!  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is an excellent, funny movie for those who are of an ethnic group or those who know someone who is! "},{"Title":"A delightful re-telling of an oft-told tale.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The one thing I knew about this film before seeing it was that it outlasted ninety percent of the season's big name must see blockbusters.I thoroughly enjoyed My Big Fat Greek Wedding, and recommend it to anyone looking for a bit of escapist fun.It's not complicated film making. It's easygoing self-deprecating humor that is supposed to make you feel good. It goes from A to B to C with light-hearted humor linking each simple plot point to the next. Good story-telling doesn't require complicated plot-lines or excessive character development. It doesn't need to. Sometimes it relies on the audience to recognize the archetypes and fill in around them.MBFGW does dwell on the ethno-centric jokes about Greek family life to expand on the stand-up line my family is nuts. Poking fun at one's self and family is a rich vein for comedy. Emphasizing absurdity is a core value of comedy. When jokes work best is when we see parallels to ourselves. We are not laughing at the characters but ourselves and our own lives. Everybody has their own Windex, as it were (no spoiler here, you should see it).You could boil the narrator's story down to, 'My family is nuts. I never felt like I fit in and let them manipulate me until I decided to live my own life. When I did they still loved me, and I was finally able to be happy.'To some it may seem trite, but, when so many film maker's thrive on telling us about the bleakness of existence, a story that tells us we can overcome our self-conceived obstacles to happiness and is entertaining is worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"A million laughs were had.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has actually been out for a while now with out the usual publicity that the so-called big studio movies enjoy. Nia Vardalos, who is the screen writer and lead character Toula was on ABC news and she said that they only spent 5 million dollars to make this wonderful movie. The movie to date 8.25.02 has generated in excess of 65 million! This shows that you can make a great movie with a small budget and still rake in the cash. This movie had the entire theater I was in laughing their butts off. The theater was filled to the brim with people of all ages and creeds and everyone was able to associate to the people and the situations in the movie. My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a movie that will have you laughing so hard that you will want seconds. I myself am a Greek and this movie hit home for me and I'm sure many other Greeks will agree that it is like experiencing their lives on the screen. Go see My Big Fat Greek Wedding it will be the best $9 you have ever spent in your life.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious ... from the Greek word hilaros","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oh my God!  I laughed so hard during this movie, that I cried.  I can see this happening in many other cultures besides Greek.  This could easily be called My Big Fat (insert culture) Wedding.  Very heart warming.  I had tears streaming down my eyes at the end of the movie, but could not tell whether it was from the hilarity or the warmth.Go see this movie!  Go!  Don't question, just GO! ... and eat something... "},{"Title":"An innocent and sweet-like fable...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Writer-Star Nia Vardalos has been a relatively quiet actress for quite some time. She has made some appearances in notable television shows such as &#145;The Drew Carey Show' and &#145;Boy Meets World'. Her acting in film has been limited to low budget films and she had never up to this point been able to captivate an audience and raise her stock &#150; until now.     &#145;My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is an interesting little film containing some fun ethnocentric humor making it hard to turn away from. While it might not be the most sophisticated piece of film to come our way, this film tells a story and that is the sole focus of the film. Director Joel Zwick's first foray into cinema proves successful holistically due to Vardalos' witty and relevant script. The film at times seem played out in the tradition of a long television show and contains many bits of sitcom-esque gags that do not quite work on the big screen, but as a whole, this film works and is pulled by the authentic performance of Nia Vardalos.      Vardalos stars as Fortoula Portokalos, a thirty something single woman working in her constrictive father's restaurant. As the days pass, she becomes restless and aspires for something more than waiting tables. And so begins the journey of our character as she enrolls in college, undergoes a major transformation and finds employment in her aunt's travel agency. Thus allowing her exposure to the real world and enabling her to meet the man of her dreams.      The only problem with this man is &#150; he is not of Greek origin. The film conveys the importance of her mate being Greek and shows the family in complete disarray upon her announcement of the couple. It is made clear by the man of the house, Toula's father; Gus Portokalos, played with warmth and stubbornness by Michael Constantine, those non-Greek are not welcome.  One needed improvement was the sitcom-esque running gag for a period within the film when Toula's father would bring home a prospective candidate for her love. Of course, they were all Greek, yet they did not have that quality Toula wanted.   Although the scenes were barely seconds in length, so much more could have been done to give this transition in the film some depth and longevity, instead, we are suckered into a cheap laugh merely upon their appearance and the film cuts back to Toula and her love interest in love once again against all wishes.      John Corbett plays the all American boy; Ian Miller, and finally gets a chance to show Hollywood he has a hint of leading man status, but that trait is quickly brushed off as the focal point of the film is Toula's character. The entrance of the WASP (White Anglo Saxon Protestant) character; Ian Miller, permits some comical scenes in which the respective families are compared for their celebrations, their ideologies and their food.     Despite the flaws mentioned, it is still a worthy watch simply for the at times exaggerated actions of the family members. Being a Canadian of strong Italian Origin, I found myself relating to the cookouts, the overwhelmingly large families and the togetherness that stands at the heart of this innocent film. While it might not be the most clinical film made, Vardalos' script is what drives this film. As easily as it was able to captivate Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson to produce the film, it will captivate your attention for its' duration in an innocent and fantasy-like way.Giancarlo's Rating **1/2 (out of 4)              "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!!!!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At last, a 'feel good' movie that wasn't shoved down our throats as an over-hyped, star studded gala! It's the simple movies, the ones from the heart that are the best and this one is one of 'em. OK so it may be dubbed a 'chick flick' but I think guys will appreciate the humor since a lot of it revolves around what they endure in the pursuit of love. Wonderfully endearing, funny as all get out, and well written and acted. Kudos to all and thank you Tom and Rita for producing this to the big screen! We love it! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the tugging at the back of your consciousness that 'Toula' is much older than the 30 yrs. they tell you in the movie (Nia Vardalos is 40), it is a highly entertaining piece of work.  Especially if you come from (or know intimately) a large ethnic family.  Considering the film has had a longer Theatrical run than some of the Star Wars films (including the current installment), I was slightly surprised to have viewed it in a packed theater six (or so) months after its initial release.All my favorite moments involve Toula's Yiayia, she really steals the show. **except for one favorite scene involving 'Ian' and a picture window.**And for those of you interested, the word 'movie' comes from the Greek word. . .  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully enjoyable movie - entertaining & engaging","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After viewing a number of the previously written reviews of My Big Fat Greek Wedding I was relatively confident that I would enjoy the movie, but being somewhat of a cynic and having been burned by an IMDB rating before ( The Royal Tenenbaums is rated 7.9, but I thought it was one of the worst, least entertaining movies I've ever seen!!), I was still not convinced.Well needless to say, this time the IMDB rating was almost right on ( it is currently posted as 8.1, but my vote would be an 8.5). This movie was simply enjoyable and entertaining right from the get go, and I am not exaggerating when I say this is the most I've laughed in the movies in years!If you enjoy ethnic humor and a truly nice story that will touch your heart, then go see and enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"On the edge of my seat laughing!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Movie is too awesome.  From the start of movie to the end of movie reminded me of my family.  Were Italian and this describes us to a tee.  Wonderful movie. Took my mom and she really ejoyed it.  Wonderful just a wonderful movie.  "}{"Title":"Expect fast-paced sitcom humor from this summer's art-ciruit crowd-pleaser,My Big Fat Greek Wedding","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's enough romance and madness to go around for everyone in `Big Fat Greek Wedding.'  From mama, to papa and a whole Greek chorus of cousins (first and second), everyone wants to get in on the act when older daughter 'Toula,' finally falls in love.Trouble is (Gee Whiz), her new beau, though as handsome and charming as an eager- to-please sheepdog, doesn't have what it takes to please Papa Portokalos.  Because (O Shame) he's not Greek.Written by Nia Vardalos, who plays &#145;Toula,' `Big Fat Greek Wedding' pokes good-natured fun at a family of first, second, and third generation immigrants who happen to run a Greek restaurant in downtown Chicago.From director Joel Zwick, who cut his teeth directing TV's `Happy Days,' and `Laverne and Shirley,' don't expect Aristophanes nor `Monsoon Wedding.' But do expect fast-paced sitcom humor that's not afraid to go over the top for its laughs.A light and refreshing breeze in the midst of the midsummer's heat and blandness.  "},{"Title":"A Big Fat So-So Wedding","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This sort of movie has been done so many times before, and better, that I was disappointed watching My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  The daughter of immigrant parents who want their daughter to marry within their race movie is nothing new, and the only thing that seems to differentiate it from others is that these people were Greek.  Instead of watching a disapproving Chinese father come to terms with his child's choice, it was a disapproving Greek father.Not that every movie has to be something new, but I didn't really feel the connection with the main character Toula.  She goes from thirty years of frumpiness to fashionable woman faster than seems realistically possible.  To me her character didn't seem very realistic at all.  After that realization, there really wasn't any reason for me to watch the movie.  It did have some funny moments, but they aren't enough for me to actually recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy, Awesome!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, of all the movies I have seen this summer, this was the most warm-hearted, funny, and uplifting one.  If you enjoy a good drama/comedy, with great story-telling and excellent acting, then you're gonna love this movie. Oh, and one more thing, it's definitely better to see this one on the big screen than on DVD or video. So go see this movie, I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"nice but nothing more","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because my girlfriend runs to the theater every single time the word wedding appears in a movie title. Some times I refuse but in this case I accepted because of the good fame of this movie that also has been on the screen for six month. I have to say that is a nice movie and that's it. Good humor but as you can find in many italian or french movies,banal costumes, banal scenes, normal cinematography. Its real vote is between 5 and 6. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Pleasure","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this moving was outstanding.  Non-stop laughs (good clean humor for a change!!) from start to finish.  The ethnic humor was done in good taste and the cast was absolutely terrific.  As stated above, a true unexpected pleasure, well worth the money!!  "},{"Title":"A joyful film","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is life as it should be.  Never mind that it is an exaggeration. A movie is a poem, life blown up hugely on the screen and  yet paradoxically boiled down to its essence.  In this case, any truly nasty overtones are glossed over because love conquers all.At first it bothered me that Nia Vardalos's character Toula made such a sudden transformation.  It seemed as though she shuffles frumpily around the Greek family restaurant in a state of apathy for the first 30 years of her life until one day she meets Ian, the non-Greek schoolteacher who laughs, actually laughs,  at her joke.  All of a sudden she gets up the energy to pursue a computer course, during which time she metamorphoses awfully quickly into an attractive butterfly.  But the point is that Ian and her new classmates see her as an individual, not as a small cog in the mighty machine of the Greek community she belongs to.It seems a little hard to believe that Toula's father could be quite so old-fashioned in modern-day Chicago. But running a restaurant must consume his entire life and he hasn't had a chance to evolve beyond it.  When he does think of other things it involves the panacea that he perceives Windex to be plus the fact that virtually all words in English have their roots in the Greek language.The Windex is a good metaphor in this case, as Ian the bridegroom is clearly embracing his bride's Greek culture and the Greek family/father-in-law. And so when both bride and groom get a zit on the morning of their wedding day, Toula covers hers with makeup.  Ian's clears up rapidly because he has sprayed it with&#133;Windex.A young man as sophisticated, in the best sense of the word, must get at least some of his attitudes from his upper-crust Anglo family, so, again, his parents seem somewhat exaggeratedly two-dimensional and stiff. (Fiona Reid is a wonderful actress and I would say her talents are wasted, but she plays the role of Ian's mother--as a well-meaning  society matron of narrow parameters--to perfection, so she is putting her skills to good, if limited, use.)The film is not flawless but it is  funny, genuinely funny.  When Ian walks into the travel agency where she is working, Toula's flustered attempt to rise and get some brochures is cut short by the fact that she is still attached to the telephone head set, which brings her down ignominously.  It is a more original variation of the classic young-boy-ogles-blonde-and-crashes-into-the-wall trick. Audiences love these because they identify with them. Who hasn't been embarrassed while trying to look cool around an attractive member of the opposite sex?When the wedding guests get up to dance the Greek dance, to the Greek tune, with the Greek family, that's the moment when everyone wants to be there at that wedding.  And wishes, if only for a moment, to be Greek.Even if this is an unabashedly feel-good movie, I wanted it to go on and on. "},{"Title":"Worthy addition to the ethno-romantic comedy genre.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a small but worthy addition to the ethno-romantic comedy genre begun perhaps by Annie Hall and including such notable examples as Moonstruck and the underrated Crossing Delancey. Word-of-mouth has made this low-budget, unadvertised indie release a major box office success. The main reason is simple the film is uproariously funny! It's been a long time since I sat in a nearly full theater (during a mid-week matinée no less) and heard such universally unrestrained guffaws from an audience mixed of young and old, male and female.Although based in Greco-American customs and stereotypes, My Big Fat Greek Wedding obviously touches the funny bones of many people with other cross-cultural romantic-social experiences - and in America that means almost everyone. Is the film's humor offensive to Greco-Americans as some critics have charged? Since I do not have Greek ancestry, nor can I claim that any of my current circle of friends are so derived, I really can't answer that question authoritatively, but I suspect that some of the loudest gales of laughter I was hearing in the theater were coming from those who share the ethnicity of the film's star and screenwriter, Nia Vardalos. It really takes a stunning degree of comic tone-deafness to miss the humor in My Big Fat Greek Wedding and instead take high offense at its hideous, pandering clichés that look rejected from bad Jewish and Italian sitcoms - to quote Entertainment Weekly's dour killjoy, Owen Gleiberman.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is certainly no Annie Hall in wit or originality. Many of its gags are simplistic and several of its characters may charitably be described as cardboard (particularly the WASP parents of the groom). On the other hand, numerous scenes stand out as memorable pieces of farcical humor - the groom Ian Miller's Greek Orthodox baptism in a plastic child's pool, the heroine Toula's frenzied wedding preparation among a wedding party of seemingly hundreds of tackily dressed bridesmaids, and the meet-the-family lawn party/lamb roast thrown for Toula's prospective in-laws - to name a few. While verbal humor is not this film's strong point, Ian's repeated Greek language faux pas certainly bring down the house, especially when the real meanings are revealed on the screen in subtitles, an old Woody Allen device that still works.In addition to its humor, the romance in My Big Fat Greek Wedding has a certain freshness and charm as well. Though an unlikely match physically as well as socially, Ian (John Corbett) and Toula generate an odd, but very credible and winning, screen chemistry. It was also pleasant to have the tired boy-loses-girl part of the formula missing for once. Ian has an adult determination that nothing will ultimately get in the way of his love for Toula, and, despite the bizarre family mismatch and Toula's father's initial dislike for his prospective xeno son-in-law, nothing does. "},{"Title":"My big fat laughter...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Without reservation, there is a most wonderful and heartwarming love story within this comedy that reminds us of what Hollywood once was, a chronicler of the human heart.Since Nia Vardalos, the most prominent of the very few Greek Americans in the cast also wrote the script we can forgive her stereotyping to source this film's humor.   	 To be frank, the title did not draw me to the picture but the urgings of friends did and I certainly do not regret seeing it.  The film is not a large screen picture though and in some sections does smack a bit like TV sitcom.  This is not all bad, however, and we cheer for the lovely Nia's success on this project a much welcomed relief from the tedious crash-bang explosions and monotonous flying bodies that all too often inhabit today's Hollywood product in replacement for good writing.		 "},{"Title":"A laugh-out-loud great time!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The magnificent Joan and I really enjoyed this night out.  We finish every date with Chinese food and it's all we talked about during dinner.Every ethnic group has its stereotypes, and the Greeks are no exception. Having been brought up in the restaurant business and worked for Greek families, I'm all too familiar with the characters in tonight's movie.  I couldn't have laughed harder.  I must see this film again to hear what I missed during the roar of the sellout theater.Go see this film.  It's OK to bring the children 8 and up.  They'll like it too. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than expected.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd heard some good things about this film and had noticed that it was doing increasingly well at the theater, but nonetheless I still had very low expectations, because I knew virtually nothing about the film.  After seeing the film, I must say that I really enjoyed it.  I wouldn't dare say it was one of the best movies I've ever seen, but it's definitely got some good things going for it.The story is nothing terribly original, but I'm not sure if it's ever been done in quite this way.  You'll see what I mean when/if you see the film.  There is also a good amount of humor in the film, and for the most part it's really good.The acting in the film was good on all accounts as well.  I had definitely seen a lot of the members of this cast in other films as well, but I couldn't place them.  I thought it was a little odd that Joey Fatone, from N'SYNC is in this film, but he did a pretty good job and he didn't bug me too much.  I was really impressed with the actress (and writer), Nia Vardalos.  They did a fantastic job of making her look not-so-attractive and then later in the film very much the opposite, she was gorgeous.I don't think I would recommend this film to everyone, but if you like cute movies about romance and weddings and what not, then this is the film for you.  I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"It was the best movie I have seen in a long time.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) Is a heart warming film that left me laughing all the way home. It was the feel good movie of the year and if you have not seen it I suggest you go and see it if you have not yet, and if you have.... see it again!!!  "},{"Title":"Big Fat Greek Monster Eats Mild-Mannered WASP Guy","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Suuzin of San Francisco and I are soul mates!  When I happened to mention my objection to this film at a gathering of women, they all glared at me & said, What's with the deeper meanings?  Just sit back & let this film wash over you!  OK, that's what 95% of the movie audience does, as I can tell from other user comments to the effect of it's funny, what's with you?  Nevertheless, like Suuzin, I'm adding my comment about the deeper meaning, which has to do with our WASP guy's consent to be baptized into the Greek Orthodox Church.  Any Greek Orthodox theologians out there who can enlighten me as to whether the GO view of baptism is the same as the Catholics'?  Because if it is, it wasn't necessary for him to be re-baptized if he had been baptized as an infant into ANY Christian denomination.   That's what one faith, one baptism MEANS.   Now, if his parents were Unitarians & never had him baptized, that's another story.   (I suspected they were Episcopalians, from appearances.)  At any rate, they should have been INFORMED about the baptism & invited to participate.  (The baptism scene shows only her family members' being present.)  So what am I, over-sensitive (I'm actually an agnostic, but take spiritual matters seriously) that I'd like to know if any actual acceptance of his fiancee's religious BELIEFS (if any) accompanied this baptism?   I have seen too many married partners simply shrug and say, Whatever & convert to the other partners belief just to keep peace in the family.   This is not what religion is (supposed to be) all about!  So the whole point of the film is, as a WASP he's a tiny little nothing who needs to be co-opted by the Greeks to achieve any individuality & identity.   Could be true--but how does he define the religious component of his new self? "},{"Title":"Pride","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I am a Greek born in Toronto, I see that the story lines were a bit overdone in some parts. But I can definitely say that the movie was really funny, and I enjoyed every minute of it. It didn't have to have sex and violence to sell this movie, it was nice clean and very fun to watch. It teaches me to be proud of who I am, and to share it with others and I hope everyone gets that idea with this movie too.Yes we enjoy life, we work hard to make sure others have a better life after us, and we never forget where we came from, plus we cherish family very much, and that was the biggest aspect of this movie.Andrea Martin was hilarious as always in this movie, and the cousins Nick and Angelo were so funny playing around with John Corbett. Overall a heart warming movie I am proud to say as a Greek about a movie about Greeks. I hope everyone goes and sees it, you'll enjoy yourselves very much so. "},{"Title":"same as my family","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I am not Greek, but Italian, the scenarios and the way the mothers/ fathers etc. acted was amzing similar to my Italian grnadparents and family.  I laughed throughout the whole movie, and don't be surprised when you find out it was filmed in the big T.O because you can see certain landmarks.  But overall, a great film and I still can't belive how close it was to my family.  A film/show hasn't been this close since Everybody Loves Raymond.  Great!! "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding = Big Fun!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I won't say too much, since there is about 150 thread ahead of this one. My Big Fat Greek Wedding is big fun.  I laughed out loud many times during this wonderful film. The acting is great. Nia Vardalos (Toula) and John Corbett (Ian) are spirited in their roles. Michael Constantine and Lainie Kazan as the parents are very good. Andrea Martin as Aunt Voula is hilarious. I think everybody has an aunt like that somewhere in their family. Gia Carides is also funny as cousin Nikki.  Go see this movie.  Nothing blows up. There is no foul language and no gratuitous sex here, just lots of laughs with a real nice story line. I read recently that Nia Vardalos held out on having this movie made until she could get it done, with the Greek story line.  At one point an offer was made to her to make the film and switch the family background to Italian and have Marisa Tomei play the lead. I'm glad and not surprised that Nia held out until the movie was made the way it should have been. You see, she's from my home town, Winnipeg. ) I look forward to her next project. Rating  4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy I've seen in Years!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have not laughed this much in a movie for years.  This movie was very cleverly done.  I take my hat off to the writer, director & actors.  I've seen this movie 3 times & still don't get tired of it. I hope there will be another written by this writer.  Please go see it. "},{"Title":"A warm, fabulous movie","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because so many of my friends recommended it.  I checked out the comments on IMDB and now that I've seen this great movie, it's a bummer that I see negative reviews on IMDB.  How could you not love this movie?  It's got great characters, wonderful scenes of family - quirky and all.  It reminds you of how great it is to have roots.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"This is the funniest movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although this romance/comedy is supposed to be about a Greek wedding and a Greek family, its appeal is universal.  The characters in it could be could be anybody's parents, aunts, uncles and cousins.  In addition, the transformation of the main character makes this a modern day Pygmalion. It reaches the audience at several levels. "},{"Title":"anyone who knows a greek will know this is so true!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  as a greek myself, i found this hilarious. others may find it funny, but as every greek girl can relate to this, it really is a joy. the outrage Toula's father shows when she dates an english boy is crazily funny, and how it overdoes(but only slightly!) the amount of food that greek people eat. i wouldn't watch this if you are easily offended, because, according to this film, there are two types of people, greeks, and people who wish they were greeks. Ian and toula fight for their relationship to work, and along with the mess of a usual wedding, she has 27 cousins, and God knows how many other relations on her back, plus a zit and a passed down wedding dress. join Toula in her search for love and her own life. hilarious and luvvy dovey! altogether an amazing film.  "},{"Title":"a great comedy","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one funny movie. I practically laughed throughout the show and if the laughter of 300+ happy people in the cinema is anything to go by, a lot of people enjoyed this show tremendously too!! What else can i say? The film critics in my local paper actually gave this movie 2 stars out of 5. DUH.Forget all the negative remarks (if there's any!), forget about the complains of self-righteous Greeks, forget the ramblings of would-be connoisseurs and do yourself a favor, grab a couple of friends and go catch this comedy. Have a good laugh and a great evening!! You won't regret it =) "}{"Title":"Traditions of ethnic cinema respected, mainly","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood loves the big immigrant family saga. When all else fails, do accents, do cuisine, do all sorts of shtick. Above all, do not examine the reality of North American life too closely. That Voula's family cannot easily accept marrying out (she says she's the first one to go out with somebody who's not Greek) is just unbelievable. I was always checking the decors in this movie, to see if it wasn't really the 50's.She is presented in such a frumpy, K Mart polyester way early in the film (those glasses make her look like a prison guard); then the dramatic makeover--reminiscent of Talia Shire's in Rocky. I've never seen a young woman of immigrant parents who didn't dress as stylishly as she could, just to prove she was as attractive as the WASPs. And the schooling is a necessity, not a frill. Women haven't been breeders in North America for decades, no matter what their ethnic background, as a quick check of birth rate statistics could tell you.Although I enjoyed much of the acting--always great to see Andrea Martin again--I was put off by the ethnic color painting. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a delightfully entertaining movie.  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Being that I married someone of European dissent, I could totally relate to many of the situations the lead finds herself facing.  But the great part is even if you couldn't relate on a personal level, it was still hilarious! Not just a chick flick! "},{"Title":"A film which shows how all members of a greek family are close together !!!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only thing I would like to say is that this film highlights the fact that WE have above ALL our family, love and our homeland!!! I hold this film out to everyone who has the same believes with us. It made my mother and I feel great and not a silly, exaggerated nation!!! "},{"Title":"Simple but enjoyable","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I'm the first to admit that there are some Greek stereotypes depicted in this film and at times I thought I was watching a TV movie of the week, I still thought this was a pretty humorous movie. All the characters are pretty well drawn out and a lot of recognizable actors appear to make it even more pleasant. Not a great film by a long shot, in fact there really is no surprises that take place but in this day and age of computer graphics and hi-tech special effects this film is refreshingly simple. Nothing all that special but its charm cannot be denied.  "},{"Title":"Light, comedic, pleasurable fun!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming story. Granted it has been told before in different ways, but this movie is charming in an almost old world style. Lacking in violence, raw sex, and the usual negative aspects of relationships, the worst there is to offer here is a family that loves you too much, what's to hate about that? This film has treasured moments of unexpected charm, and grace. It features little moments that add up to a very pleasurable viewing experience. I choose movies I like based upon how much I want to see them over again - and I wanted to see this one over again as soon as I walked out of the movie theatre. So, if you are looking for something to tickle your funny bone, make you go Aw once in awhile, and leave you with a warm, fuzzy feeling at the end - then this is the movie for you. God Bless Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks for helping this to get to the big screen! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable comedy that you can take your mother to","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the most thoroughly enjoyable comedies that I have seen in many years. Anyone from an immigrant family (no matter what the ethnicity) will appreciate the people involved and their situation. This movie relies on the story line, the characters, and the dialog for the laughs which are warm and heart felt, not on potty humor or cheap shots. Take the whole family including grandma. "},{"Title":"a big hit, sneaking in via the back door","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having married into a Greek family (I won't say MASSIVE Greek family, they are ALL massive!)and lived to tell the tale, this movie has special relevance to me.  It is fantastically funny, with every member of the family obviously based on hundreds of like people, in every Greek family you're ever likely to meet.  Even if you aren't Greek, married to a Greek, or even know any Greeks, you'll still love it, as the humour transcends every culture.  Everybody will relate to this dysfunctional family as their own, but for the Greeks in particular, this really is a no-misser!  Catch it as soon as it appears, as an independent it won't be around for long. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't even want to see this movie so that shows you what kind of mood I was in!  I'm SO GLAD I saw it!  One of the sweetest and funny movies that I have EVER seen!  The character development is wonderful!  I loved them all! DON'T MISS IT! "},{"Title":"everyone and all ages love it.......","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  everyone and all ages can enjoy this movie.i can't stop recommending it and the people (from 20 to 85) are so happy they saw it, some have gone back again with friends.i'll get the DVD when it comes out to use when i need a good laugh....it is better than Windex! "},{"Title":"An all around feel good movie","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this movie had no tragedy whatsoever and that worked for me.  Usually I anticipate that something BAD will happen in these kinds of movies.  The most conflict that happened in THIS movie was the struggle that Tula's father had with accepting a man into his family that was, god forbid, NOT GREEK.  I don't know any Greeks other than Thanos.  From what I hear, they really do have HUGE familys that are determined to keep it all Greek.  The main Character in this movie was very ugly at the beginning and then became rather striking once she ditched the glasses.  Her boyfriend played by some guy from Sex and the City was very convincing as a man who fell in love with her.  I was dreading that the man, named Ian Miller, would end up leaving her because her family was so extreme.  Tom Hanks produced this movie.  He married Rita Wilson who is also from a HUGE GREEK family. I found that interesting.  Some of the great things in this movie that made me laugh were The Father who sprayed windex on his skin whenever he got a rash etc., the grandmother who was OLD SCHOOL GREEK and thought that the Turks were still in was with Greek, and of course, the FATHER who was GREEK THIS and GREEK THAT!!!  Haha!!  Go see this movie and eat a Gyros afterwards!  Heck, even that prettyboy from In Synche was in the cast!  Three thumbs UP!  Way up! "}{"Title":"Did I see the same film?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing that this movie got an 8.1 rating on this site, and knowing that Andrea Martin was in it, I figured I was in for a good romp.  I was much disappointed.  I found the incidental situations to be highly unlikely, much of the comedy forced, and the movie over-all to be exremely sentimentalized.  I'm glad I saw it because of Andrea Martin, and also because of Lanie Kazan, though she was under-utilized.  (See 29th Street for great Lanie and for genuine sentiment, not sentimentality.)  Still, this movie was harmless, and I am glad that so many people here seemed to have enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Family Means Everything","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie with my twin sister today and we were both impressed with everything about this enchanting love story.  As Americans, we should all feel that family means everything to us.  Sure, there are disagreements and misunderstandings in every family, but family is forever -- Greek, Hispanic, Cajun, African-American or whatever the heritage.It's great to see John Corbett in something where he is the leading man, a really FINE man.  Nia Vardalos was wonderful.  I was especially impressed with Andrea Martin as the aunt.This movie rates a 10 in our books. "},{"Title":"Not a big fat letdown but no big fat indie surprise either","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the film.  And it did open my eyes to a new culture (the Greeks) and there own eccentries.  It was well-done and the leads were lively.  But the film is no Billy Elliott or Muriel's Wedding or similiar take-me-to-a-new-place-in-a-fresh-way kind of film.  It was good but if it starts getting Amelia-esque buzz come award time I'd be surprised.  Dance with Me or Ballroom Dancing had more umph and had more something special about them. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three days after I saw the film and I am still laughing. Excellent movie!I don't agree with the comments that no Greek family is like the one in the film. Being a Greek, and a native one, I recognized in the film characters from my own family, lines that I have already heard during a family gathering, an atmosphere that I have been living with all these years.Go see this movie and take along your parents. An italian friend told me that this movie would very well be the story of an italian family if you would only change some lines and scenery. An Irish woman told Nia Vardalos (after she saw the play in the theater) that she was very touched because in the story she saw her own Irish family!!Family togetherness is a universal value either if you are Greek or Italian or American. The comedy element works perfectly in this movie and, at the end, the result is very entertaining. "},{"Title":"An ethnic comedy without ethnic jokes - YES!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I identified with Toula because, while not Greek, I am also first-generation and have just as many cousins as she does (27!) who live right by me and so are excitedly involved whenever anyone is getting married --- particularly a female relative in her late twenties whom everyone is sure was never going to get married!!!Toula meets Ian, a nice non-Greek boy, once in the very start of the movie, and then after she transforms her life with a makeover and new career. Once she gets the ball rolling in these other arenas, she gains confidence and starts an unsanctioned romance. All of her cousins, aunts, and siblings set about convincing Toula's Old World father, who loves Greece and all things Greek and is personally offended that Toula has not chosen a Greek fiancee, to accept Ian and his world.There is plenty of insights into the Greek culture and how Toula can love such a large warm family even while she is desperately trying to escape them. Embracing and accepting her past without letting it dictate her life is great -- especially when the grandmother, who has been crotchety and hilarious for most of the movie, touchingly brings her wedding wreath and photos to share with Toula on her special day.            You will laugh and cry, and thankfully not at a culture's expense.  "},{"Title":"You don't have to be Greek to enjoy this fun romp!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I am your average mixed breed, your average mutt, and your average Heinz 57.  In short, I have several backgrounds, mostly German.  This is a great chick flick and a cool date movie.  See it with your girlfriends, your mom, or your boyfriend.  It's funny, witty, charming, and good, clean fun.  Keep an eye out for NSYNC member Joey Fatone as one of Toula's cousins.   "},{"Title":"I laughed 'til I cried!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the best romantic comedies that I've seen in a long time! Everyone can relate to Toula's experience of trying to please her family and follow her heart at the same time. You'll love it! "},{"Title":"Fat's Where It's At","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this with my Greek gal and she laughed, cried and enjoyed.   Good film, very entertaining, though I'm not sure I would've appreciated it as much had I not been around big Greek family occasions.  A bit exaggerated for laughs and effect but overall very funny and moving. "},{"Title":"Worth the wait","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to wait months to see this movie.  I hear about this movie when it first came out, but it wasn't playing anywhere nearby.  The closest place was New Orleans (over two hour drive to get there).  Finally it arrived in my midsized town, and it was well worth the wait. Coming from a half Iranian family, I felt I was looking at my own family half the time.  It was almost scary.  The humor was great.  (I often found I was the only one laughing at times, though.)  I didn't find it offensive (besides a Greek wrote it).  I just really think the whole idea is very enduring.  Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but I'd think about all the people that gave this movie a 10 (about 85%) before writing it off.  Give it a chance.  It's worth it.  "},{"Title":"No acting noticeable in this Wonderful movie","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie may be a comedy but  reflected so many facets of real life as I remember.  The generosity, all for one and one for all,and the goodness spread throughout this film as soft butter on bread.  As said elsewhere, foul language was not necessary for this film to be effective.The casting was superb.  Noone appeared to be acting and if Lainie Kazan doesn't get an academy award for this one, Id be markedly surprised.The direction, casting, screenplay, music,and editing were  A Plus.  This movie gets a thoughtful 10 and I advise anyone who has feeling and emotion to see this uplifting film. "}{"Title":"A very funny and warm film!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched My Big Fat Greek Wedding a few days ago.I must admit that prior to watching the film I was afraid I might feel insulted by its portrayal of the Greeks. I was wrong!!  Nia Vardalos takes some of the flaws we (the Greeks) have (like shouting) and builds on them not in a mean, offensive way but with a lot of love and understanding. I appreciated very much the brilliant casting, the intelligent script and the hilarious lines. The movie also hands out valuable lessons like the sacrifices that one has to make for love and the tolerance for other people's cultures. Above all My Big Fat Greek Wedding really manages to capture the warmth and the vivacity of the Greek way of life and leaves the spectator with a sweet feeling at the end. For me it is by far the best comedy of the year and I strongly recommend it to all of you whether you are Greeks or not!! "},{"Title":"Ethnic Fun With A Great Heart","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The premise of My Big Fat Greek Wedding is not knew to many of us, but the experience of the movie is far more.  Anyone who has grown up with or around a large family can appreciate the sentimentality behind Toula and her quest to marry a man outside of her community.  I, as a Greek American, appreciated even other parts of the movie that I believe still speak to us all.  For example, the scene of three generations, the Yiayia, mother, and Toula, looking at the wedding stefana or crowns.  It is a beautiful moment and one that is not easily forgotten.  This is a movie for everyone to enjoy, and there are laughs galore! "},{"Title":"Funny, corny and endearing","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having recently experienced our South Florida son marrying a Texas belle in Dallas, I had to relate to this movie.  Its not just about Greeks marrying WASPS, its about Everywedding, when two weird families (all families are weird is a line from the movie) get joined through their offspring, with patient good humor, high anxiety and enough to stress to make you laugh out loud several times during the wedding weekend (not to mention this movie). The bride avoids being trapped by her past but takes her past into her future (as her brother states, profoundly quoting Dear Abby).  What a really corny thought!  What a corny movie! So why am I tearing up here? Why am I laughing?  See this movie.     "},{"Title":"OKAY FOR A RAINY DAY","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fitfully funny, wildly uneven film from a well-known TV director. But when the laughs come, they come big. At least as good as the YA YA SISTERHOOD, if not as slickly made. I do wonder what genuine Greek people will make of the cast, which is made up of Canadian and American actors, some of whom are hardly of Greek descent. Nevertheless, a pleasure to see people like Lainie Kazan still working -- and in Kazan's case, eating up her role. Nia Vardalos, the writer and star, is about as opposite Hollywood's ideal of a leading woman as one could imagine. She is big -- really big -- and by no means the prettiest thing on the planet, including being cross-eyed. (She also provides an annoying voice-over narration which the film could have done without.) Still, if this had been a Hollywood job, the lead would have been a Cher-type creature, with no waist and a glamourpuss. And the movie would have poorer for it. Worth seeing, if not in the theater at least on video. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up - Don't Miss This Movie!!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw My Big Fat Greek Wedding last night and loved it!This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time!  In fact, I'm taking my Mom to see it this weekend.I had been a professional freelance wedding photographer for a studio in the suburbs of Philadelphia in the early 80s.  Seeing this movie brought back a lot of memories from my wedding photography days.  In fact, one of my assignments was a Russian Orthodox wedding and it was very beautiful and very similar to the ceremony in the film.I'm not going to write about the storyline here because so many others have written about that.  What I loved about this movie was the family togetherness, humor and love told throughout the movie.I especially loved Andrea Martin as the Aunt, Michael Constantine as the father and Lainie Kazan as the mother.  What perfect casting! This is a movie you can take your whole family to and have a good laugh and leave the theater feeling warm and happy.  Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Warm !","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though this is supposed to occur in Canada, and though I saw it during the Summer, it was just let me with a really warm sensation, as if the place didn't matter.There are just these really likeable characters, like the grandmother who keeps escaping and the father with his Windex bottle (we even see him bathing his elbow in the blue mixture to cure some pain at the beginning).The very end of the movie (5 years later) also features a really funny surprise that actually got everybody in the movie theater to sit back, laughing.If you need some warm freshness, then, you need to see this movie. "},{"Title":"What?  No, violence or cursing?","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, folks.  Everyone in your family will be able to enjoy it and find some aspect to which they relate.  The witty, satirical humor is very creative and boasts a great cast, including the hottie from Northern Exposure, and a boy bander?  Hmm... (maybe there is only one downfall to this flick!)Other than that, this lighthearted comedy will leave you wishing your family wasn't so boring and typical.   "},{"Title":"If you love life, people, food, dance, romance, family and a great deal of laughing at ourselves, you will love this movie.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Plot Outline A young Greek-Canadian woman falls in love with a non-Greek and struggles to get her family to accept him while she comes to terms with her heritage and cultural identity.This movie is one of the best ones that I have seen in years.  It is not being advertised much in the media but is getting excellent word of mouth reviews.  My neighbor loved it so much that I had to go and see it.  Their daughter-in-law loved it so much that she took her mother-in-law and saw it a second time.Here is my word of mouth review  DON'T MISS IT.You do not have to be Greek to appreciate it. However; if you are Greek, it would be a shame not to see it.  -)   It is easy to substitute Italian, Jewish, Spanish or any other culture.  We all feel more comfortable with our own people but there is an excitement in expanding our horizons and learning about the many other cultures in our wonderful world.  I believe that we all have more in common than we have differences.  If you love life, people, food, dance, romance, family and a great deal of laughing at ourselves, you will love this movie.  The lead actress wrote the screenplay and the entire cast is outstanding. "},{"Title":"Real Gut-Buster","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of those really cute, happy ending sappy movies, but it very well avoids being cheesy.  This is about two different cultures coming together for Love.  A very overly used concept in movies (kind of a toned down Jungle Fever.)  However this one is different than most because there are no threats of anyone being disowned or banished from their family or race. It's simply the story of two people from different backgrounds coming together.  Discovering another culture is always shocking and that is what is so funny about this movie. There are very funny scenes of families coming together.  Seeing the WASPy millers meet the very large Portokalos family are great.John Corbett (Aidan from SATC) is great is Ian Miller and Michael Constantine is great as Gus the Greek father who is so very proud of his heritage.  This movie over does many aspects of the Greek lifestyle for dramatical purposes, but overall makes light of that culture without being offensive.  I had just gone to my first Greek wedding a week before seeing this movie, and that made it all the better.  Definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"One Big Fat Great Movie!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so good, I saw it twice in a two day span.  I thought it was a sweet and enjoyable flick about a girl in a huge family trying to be herself.  I can relate a lot with the main character, my family is the exact same way as her (but German).The Aunt cracked me up, her and the grandmother.  I do not want to give too much away and ruin the film for anyone, just go see this movie.GO SEE THIS MOVIE "}{"Title":"Warm and Delightful!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding succeeds on several levels.  It's a fairly wholesome, involving film in a sea of violent and nerve-rattling movies.  You have to look for the necessary conflict that makes any story work.  In Wedding it's simply the clash of cultures humorously portrayed. The pic is sly in that it hints that things will turn terribly sour any minute.  Instead, you are thrown off balance by the sudden jolts of unexpected warmth and ironic humor.Pleasant and generous people are hard to find...and truly feel good movies are rare.  They both come together in My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  Oh my God, I look like Snow Beast!  Better go see it to find out what that line is about.  Enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Good enough to surprise me","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A friend and I went to see this because we thought it would be amusing to see yet another movie under a pop star's belt (Joey Fatone, minor role of Angelo) since we'd seen On the Line and found it to be horrible.We were surprised that the movie was not only tolerable, but really good and very funny.  While it seemed like we were the only people in the theatre that found a few things funny, the crowd for the majority liked it. I thought that the humor was good and not offensive at all, which is always a concern with ethnic comedy. Lainie Kazan was great as the mother, and I think she and Nia Vardalos are good proof that women don't need to be skinny, busty, and blonde to be really beautiful women. It's a good mature movie.  Had fun.  Worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK  Let me put to rest a misunderstandings some people have about this movie.  #1 It is a COMEDY!  What makes it funny is it exaggerates people's traditions and actions.  That's what makes this movie funny.  If you want to see a completely accurate portrayal of a Greek family, don't see this movie. Everybody has things about their family which they would like to keep secret, this movie takes many of those, runs with them and makes them humorous (i.e., a parent's views on who their child shall marry).  This is a wonderful movie, with every line, being set up for another hilarious joke.  "},{"Title":"How Good Simplicity Is!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story goes that Nia Vardalos, who plays Toula, wrote a play. Immediately Rita Wilson, a Greek-American herself, who convinced her husband to produce the movie version, saw the play. Her husband of course is Tom Hanks. And yet what a movie. The question you ask before the movie is will it touch you? I saw it in a little independent theatre in St. Louis on a nice day. I was looking for something and this seemed to be a nice way to spend some time. There is a plot in the movie, obviously. It concerns the development and blossoming of Toula into an attractive woman who falls for (Sex and the City's) John Corbett. He plays in this movie a vegetarian high school teacher Ian Miller. And its only the beginning. Like in all conservative cultures, expectations are made. One sometimes fills them, sometimes doesn't Especially hard is it on a woman grown in a different culture trying to abide by a distant one imposed on her family. Is anything more universal?In this movie, the obvious desire by Toula's large family is simple Marry a Greek, have lots of kids with a Greek, and serve them until you die. And yet she wants more. She has grown up in a culture with more liberal leanings. No longer is Toula required to be a homemaker, now there is something else that she can accomplish. Maybe be a nurse, a doctor, a lawyer, an accounting In the movie she gets a job from a relative as a travel agent's assistant.Toula, played by Nia Vardalos, is the most important character for the movie's survival. She carries the movie with her lines and voice-over narration. Nia was right to let herself play the leading role. This movie is fiction only as far the main events, but in the details (God is in the Details?) I am pretty sure all of it is true. John Corbett's Ian Miller appears and the movie rolls in. There is Toula's fear of being disowned for not marrying a Greek. There are the jokes and idiosyncrasies of the family (Windex, anyone.) And there are others. The movie is simple and yet is effective in parts. It does lose pace sometimes trying to go for the lecture or lesson and it is here that it fails miserably No lectures are needed. The audiences see that Love, at least in this movie, is not cultural. It is a universal concept that cannot be hid in a healthy manner. Sometimes in comedies, even in this one, there is a need to sentimentalize. Does it work? Sometimes. Most times all it does is break the pace of the story. The audience I saw it was lost with couple of speeches and couldn't wait to get with the laughter.What does this movie accomplish? Nothing grand. It is not a complex movie and in an hour or so the hangover will be over. You will remember the movie as a nice way to spend some time. Despite it intentions of actually being a careful and accurate portrait of a Greek family, it failed because it was a comedy. Pure comedies can never be authentic because their key ingredient is exaggeration, a poison to truth. And yet nevertheless, this movie does feel good. You can get drunk on it and recommend it to friends. Needless to say, the movie ends on a positive note with a last laugh as the camera pans away to reveal their house and who it is by....  "},{"Title":"Original and funny movie about a wedding.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nia Vardalos plays a Greek woman who is marring a non-Greek man played John Corbett. She loves him no matter of his heritage. Laughs keep on rolling through the movie, especially about the running joke about Windex. I did not get bored watching the film. People can relate to the story, if you have a big family or not. If you want to laugh hard see this movie.   "},{"Title":"A likable but only so-so comedy","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie.  It's an amiable, feel-good movie, but it's not very sophisticated.  The writing is at the level of the average TV sitcom, only with the stupid wisecracks.  This a simple, nice movie that should make most of those inclined to go see it walk out smiling.  For me the biggest attraction was seeing '60s folk singer Gale Garnett playing one of the Greek aunts.  It's nice to know she's still around, active and looking pretty good. "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    My Big Fat Greek Wedding delivers all of the goods for a great movie. It has comedy, a love story and finally an actress that represents real people. Any person can relate Tula's family expirence and her search for her identity which connects the movie to our own lives. Since we can relate to this movie, it makes the movie all the more enjoyable and entertaining. Her family is hilarious. I give this movie four stars and reccomend it to everyone.  "},{"Title":"macho chick flick","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I figured this was a chick flick until out of nowhere two of my mostmacho buddies strongly recommended the film. I surprised mywife by agreeing to go see the movie on our anniversary and I'mglad that I did. If you're a guy who makes a point of avoiding chickflicks yet you want to be a little flexible, take my buddies' advice andcheck this one out. Sure it's stereotypical but what the hell... "},{"Title":"Best time I've had at a movie in a long time.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I laughed, I teared, I had a great time with my two grandsons andlady. It is a movie that you can take your whole family to and allenjoy. Nia did a wonderful job writing this story and the endproduct says it all. Just a delightful move, well acted, never a dullmoment. Never made to feel 'uncomfortable' with the kids. Itlooked like the entire cast had a great time making this film. "},{"Title":"Greek, but not.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this wonderful movie.  I am sure that some views who are not as ethnic as others might think it is a movie about a Greek girl who's parents want her to marry a Greek boy.Well they would be wrong.  It is a movie about every girl's family, and for that matter every boy's family.  It so perfectly imitates life that it becomes funny.The entire cast does a fantastic job, and the end is perfect. "}{"Title":"Sparkling, refreshing, hilarious, sexy","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for refreshing, intelligent, summer adult movie entertainment, look no further than My Big Fat Greek Wedding, now playing at selected theatres.  The acting, writing, and directing are excellent with nearly flawless casting.  This is another fish-out-of-water story, yet brimming with wit and poignancy all at once.  The film is told from a young woman's point of view as she moves from ugly ducking to beautiful swan with hilarious results. Filled with surprises and laughs, this film makes you reflect on family members you know all too well, sexy, romantic situations you remember as if they were yesterday, and dialogue so fresh and spontaneous, you're amazed filmmakers still make movies this wise for the 21st century.  You've heard of Muriel's Wedding, Four Weddings and a Funeral, and Monsoon Wedding. Well, here's another one to add to your collection.  Like sparkling champagne, this one tickles your nose, goes to your head, and keeps you floating right out of theatre with a smile on your face.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Absolutely delightful film.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a thoroughly delightful, very funny film in the tradition of Moonstruck. I'm not sure which I like better - I love them both!To those few who were offended - lighten up. It isn't making fun of Greek ethnicity, it is revelling in it. The family could just as well have been Italian or Jewish or any group with a strong family center (with a few name changes). The characters are lovable and not ridiculed. The movie is a total joy and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"More big fat laughs than expected.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nia Vardalos is a remarkable talent. As both writer and star of Wedding she has captured ethnicity in a way that allows all of us, Greek or not, to laugh at ourselves and our well meaning loved ones. Although a neat star vehicle for Vardalos the actor, Vardalos the writer allows an ensemble cast to shine. Noteworthy performances by Lainie Kazan as Vardalos' mother, Andrea Martin as her aunt and the durable Michael Constantine as her father. As the fiance who knows not what he's getting into, John Corbett provides just enough white bread to seem out of place in the spicy Greek family and yet plausibly in love with the transformed heroine. "},{"Title":"A warm, funny movie.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was skeptical about this movie, but my girlfriend wanted to go see it, and I obliged.  As the movie opened, I settled in for what I totally expected to be a chick flick with the occasional chuckle.Instead, I was treated to the funniest movie I've seen since Meet the Parents.  And I wasn't alone.  Laughter resonated from the entire audience, and I wasn't the only person smiling as I exited.And for the most part, the movie was clean.  It was refreshing to find a movie lovable and funny without being subverse.This movie was terrific.   "},{"Title":"A review about Greek reviews","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First, the movie is excellent. Much funnier and approachable than the horrible Father of the Bride and the slightly to indulgent Moonstruck.However, I'm surprised that so many people of Greek ancestry are upset with the portrayals. Fortunately, the vast majority report that the movie is TOO accurate for their situation.But there is a distressed minority who are upset with the cliche Greek restaurant owner with a heavy accent, tight family, strong commitment to tradition, drinking, dancing, xenophobia, etc. Are all Greeks like this? Of course not. But if you've been near Greek neighborhoods and families, you know that these characters are not imagined They are real.If you're Greek and easily offended by very common and totally Greek behavior, maybe you won't enjoy a movie entitled My BIG FAT Greek Wedding. Ya think?Also, for the folks insisting that Olivia Dukakis deserved a role Did you also complain that she shouldn't have been in Moonstruck? I'm glad she was and I'm glad Andrea Martin was in Greek Wedding. (Ok, her accent had a little more Russian than necessary, but she was funny.)As they say on Halsted Street in Chicago, God bless all Americans and Greeks! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being of Greek heritage, I was amazed at the realism of even the smallest details in this move. It was brilliantly written and brought back the truest memories. I brought a relative who had married into our family and even she was shocked at how close her experiences with our family mirrored what Ian was going through. "},{"Title":"Excellent ethnic comedy","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie twice and laughed just as much the second time. You don't have to be Greek to enjoy it. Remember this is a comedy and it is not to be looked at as a serious or true story. Show's the ethnic family ties that a lot of American's past or present can relate to. Hope it will be available in DVD or Video, because I will be the first to buy it.  "},{"Title":"Pass the Moussaka or Father Doesn't Know Best","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Filmed in an ersatz Chicago Greektown (I know the real place very well), My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a warm,  delightful drama/comedy of cultural and generational clash. It deserves the widest circulation. The Big Message Don't beware of Greeks bearing gifts - just be cautious when a Hellenic family has a funny, smart, bright, attractive (but not beautiful) daughter who needs a husband and you're not their model candidate.Toula is thirty going on to lonely and desperate.  Gus, her father, wants her to go to his native Greece to find a mate.  His love of his homeland and its culture and contributions to civilization go beyond chauvinism to bewildering levels of fictional creativity.  He beats the late and not lamented Soviets for ascribing virtually every human achievement to his people.  His wife, Maria, is the Molly Goldberg of Chicago's contemporary Greek community.  There are so many other family members that they can't be counted.  Each is a character.And along comes high school teacher Ian. The son and grandson of lawyers, he abandoned plans for law school to teach.  Oh, the loss to my profession. The mutual attraction of Toula and Ian is quick and deep.  And they truly deserve each other.The rest of the plot is so obvious that laying it out can't be a spoiler.  Gus doesn't view Ian as exactly The Right Stuff for his daughter.Stereotypes?  Yes.  A bit over the top?  Definitely.  Charming people who work through their issues with love and deep feelings for each other? Yes!!! And that's what makes this film work, what keeps it from sliding into the realm of a big screen sitcom.  It's hard not to care about not only Ian and Toula but the whole clan.  I would have been shattered if the ending wasn't...well, go see it and find out.None of the actors are familiar.  Their names are largely Greek to me.  But they act from the heart, not the script.My almost-a-teenager son tends to turn off when he sees what he calls the mushy stuff on the screen.  Not My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  He couldn't take his eyes off the screen - he loved it.And - a fair warning - you WILL leave the theater hungry!!8/10. "},{"Title":"A Big Fat Good Movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  The anti-Hollywood.  This movie reminds me of why I fell in love with movies so many years ago.  Great dialog, characters you care about, and a story that is alive.  Nia Vardalos wrote and stars as Toula, a Greek trying oh so desperately to escape the shackles of her family.  Once she does, she comes alive, yet comes to realize how wonderful her family is ... in their own strange way.  John Corbett as her love interest is just quirky enough to make us think this could happen.  The best performance of the movie is given by Toula's dad, Michael Constantine (about 30 years removed as the principal of Room 222).  He cares so much for his family and his greek heritage that it hurts us to watch at times.  Don't get me wrong, this is a full fledged comedy, yes even a romantic comedy!  On your second viewing, check out Toula's eyes - they seem to sparkle, even dance, at times.  If she has this true ability, we may see more of her as an actress.  Lainie Kazan gives another of her wonderful performances as the mother, or the neck of the family.  I would have like to have seen the brother's character developed a little more - I have the feeling there was more in the original story.  Check out N'Sync's Joey in a few scenes.  Charming movie with charming characters and too many laughs to remember! "},{"Title":"WHAT A DELIGHT!!!!!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Went to see this movie with a theatre full of Greeks and I was delighted at the pace and comedy in this little exposed film.  If it is playing in your neighborhood go see it, you will spend a delightful hour and a half. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  I laughed so hard I had tears in my eyes, and even when I wasn't laughing out loud, I was pretty well amused.  Terrific performances from an unknown cast.  Really a must see for anyone who really likes a belly laugh.Don't let the bad title throw you off, this is a rare treat. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic comedies I've seen in a long time. While some of the scenes come off as required material for an ethnic comedy, it still has a freshness to it, and though some of the characters seem stock, they are none the less endearing. The writing is incredible and acutally plausible, which is generally hard to come by in a romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"A really Enjoyable Wedding","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I was watching My Big Fat Greek Wedding ---- Moonstruck and Goodbye Columbus immediately came to mind. All three about weddings. All three stereotypical. All three,somewhat tongue in cheek and all delightful.To me to be able to laugh and cry all in one film is a super feeling. Maybe none of these films are quite real to life but the enjoyment is the fact that this is how we would like life to be. Who doesn't want a happy ending and couples to live happily ever after. (Exception of course in Goodbye Columbus) As for the acting, Lainie Kazan, born Lainie Levine playing the role of the understanding, loving Greek mother was outstanding. Don't even have to use the word Greek---understanding, loving mother, more than says it.  Also a beautiful bride that was not paper thin was refreshing and true to life.As for actor, John Corbett the almost too good to be  fiancé, how good to see him again. Have missed him since his tv days on Northern Exposure His compassionate facial expressions have always been good to watch.All in all, thanks to the direction, story, cast and entire crew,  for providing a fun afternoon to this most amateur critic.   "},{"Title":"Very endearing!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great!  Not the usual guy meets girl, they fall in love, have a fight for the rest of the film, and get back together later.  Throughout this film things stay as they are because in adversity the characters know what they want.  This film gains your trust and keeps it.  The script is VERY funny and sweet.  A definite 'feel-good' movie for everyone.  I for one, was quite impressed. "},{"Title":"ETHNIC BARBS, HUMOR AND TOUCH","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GREEK WEDDING is about much fun as one can have at a movie.The film moves effortlessly and a bit slyly in spots. The roar of theaudience in laughter is often distracting, covering over the linesthat follow the words/acts that generated the laugh.The casting is marvelous. The acting is superb.  The staging isappropriate and the story is poignant in so many ways from somany angles. This is a film to be seen by all.  It works for young and old anddoes so with elegance and class.  And yet, the slapstick momentsand the obvious gags work the way slapstick and gags shouldwork.  Take a load off of your life and take a gift to MY BIG FAT GREEKWEDDING. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" what a pleasure to see something without 4 letter words, car chases, flying anything and no special effects. it should be labeled NOT FOR ANYONE UNDER 40 corbett has come a long way since northern exposure "},{"Title":"I had a problem with the movie's stereotypes","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie had a lot of funny elements. I could certainly identify with many because I come from a Greek Family. My maiden name is Santrizos, so I had a tough time in school with others' pronunciation of it. Also, both my grandfathers were restaurant owners. My parents were both born in the United States but were pressured to marry Greeks (in the 1950s). They broke away from the Greek church when I was only a toddler and moved away from a tight Greek community in Minnesota to (new age) California. I have a problem with the offensive stereotypes in this movie.  I was at my cousin's wedding in New York and it was a classy event all the way. The reception was held at Tavern on the Green. There was no spitting either!  The Greeks portrayed in this movie were obnoxious and uncouth (except for the star). I also married a non-Greek. I thought Moonstruck was better and think that Olympia Dukakis should have been in this movie.   "},{"Title":"Getting drunk on Uzo","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my fave moments in this film is to see Lainie Kazan's face being plucked of hairs by Second City alum Andrea Martin, and to wonder why those two actresses are not in more movies.Andrea Martin, in particular, would have made Waiting for Guffman and Best in Show even funnier if she was along for the ride.Another hilarious moment is to see the two whitebread parents get smashed by toast after toast of uzo, their resultant tunnel vision, and the singular look of horror on the groom mom's face as her bundt gets a rather hilarious garnishment.Chris "},{"Title":"Not a 'big' film, it is still loaded with fun and ethnic humor.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING  ***_  Romantic Comedy Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Michael ConstantineMuch to the dismay of her family, a Greek woman falls in love with a non-Greek. The movie chronicles the clash of cultures as the families come together. Not a 'big' film, it is still loaded with fun and ethnic humor. No car chases or explosions. Definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Hilarious","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well as a Greek myself, I would like to say that it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I love the way it was set up. It is very funny and I would like to say but I don't want to spoil it for those who have not seen, it but if you need to laugh, go see this movie. It is about a large Greek family living in a middle class neighborhood in a Chicago suburb and the house is built in a unique Greek style. One of the girls is 30 and has not married yet and then falls in love with a non-Greek or as they said (Xenos) which means stranger or other. Then they finally except it. "}{"Title":"A Bit Flawed, But Good!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a Greek-American, married to a 1st generation Greek-American, we could truly relate to much of this movie.  Of course, a lot of the movie was exaggerated (to some degree or another) for laughs, but much of it caused flashbacks!!Nia Vardalos was utterly charming as Toula, and the mother and brother were also very good!  The father, although a bit overplayed, did a nice job as the Greek dad who lamented over his aging, unmarried daughter marrying a xeno (non-Greek).  Even John Corbett did a nice job of being the xeno and having to assimilate to the big, Greek family and all their quirks. Some of the family was rather annoying.  Sorry, Thea (Aunt) Voula should have been played by a Greek-American actress (there's enough of them - what about Olympia Dukakis?) rather than a non-Greek with a very lame attempt at a Greek accent. And, what was with the crazy Yiayia (Grandma) who was supposedly right from Greece, but everyone spoke English to her?Good things - memories of being the awkward Greek kid in school; the brother was hysterical duping Ian to embarass himself by saying certain things in Greek; the huge, noisy Greek family gatherings; the church with the huge, filled Greek side and the sparsely filled non-Greek side; the HUGE wedding party; and the father (*** minor spoiler ***) buying the house next door to theirs for Toula and her husband.Overall, pretty good and recommended!  And, you don't need to be Greek to enjoy it! "},{"Title":"perfect night out","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Prefect night out.  Never stopped laughing.  Greek or not we could all relate to the different personalities.  Telling everyone - a MUST see.  I give a ten to all involved with the movie and the music just sweetened our evening.  Thank you!!  "},{"Title":"perfect night out","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Prefect night out.  Never stopped laughing.  Greek or not we could all relate to the different personalities.  Telling everyone - a MUST see.  I give a ten to all involved with the movie and the music just sweetened our evening.  Thank you!!  "},{"Title":"MY BIG FAT RUSSIAN LAUGH","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw an advanced screening of My Big Fat Greek Wedding. I had a crappy seat and sat by someone who smelled so i was in a bad mood. I didnt wanna see this movie. It started out slow but worked its way up. This movie was really really funny. For her first movie Nia Vardalos does a great job. Everything From Windex To Nick Nick Nick....Nikki to the run away grandma. This movie has loads & loads of laughs. I'd recommend this movie too everyone. This Movie gets a 9 out of 10 from me! "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie in Years!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you need a good laugh (as I did, who doesnt?) this is the film to see A good friend of mine whose opinion I trust told me about this film I had seen coming attractions ..so after attending 4 funerals in the past 3 weeks.. I decided this was the  movie to see... Wonderful., funny believable ethnic story... to which we can all relate  esp. those of us with Mediterranean ethnicities... cant stop laughing.. want to see again It is also very honest..very romantic.. its a gem!!  Lainie Kazan is wonderful as the Greek Mama, as are Andrea Martin  (Aunt Voula ) and Michael Constantine as the Greek father... but credit has to go to films  star & writer Nia Valadrous... shes brilliant..word of mouth should give this film an audience it deserves... Im praising to all my family/friends ... and want to see again... "},{"Title":"Too damn funny...","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be the funniest movie I've seen in years.  It's ethnic humor, but not insulting.   It's a cute, romantic comedy.  Heck, I HATE N-SYNC...but I even thought Joey Fatone did a great job.  Constant laughs in a movie that doesn't insult its audience. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one unless....","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are a person who loves all the many movies that seem now to be required to have foul language, violence, nudity, multiple special effects or some kind of mysterious or obvious message, then you might not like this movie. It has none of those elements.It is quite simply the most delightful, funny, ENTERTAINING film non-stop from beginning to end. The casting and script are perfect. No fancy cinematography here, but you feel like there is no camera at all - that you are right there in the movie watching everything going on.In addition to the entire cast and production crews, Rita Wilson and her coproducer husband, Tom Hanks, all deserve raves for bringing out this really enjoyable movie in the midst of all the junk coming out of Hollywood on a steady basis. Go see it, enjoy it, and then tell all your friends to go. I predict that word of mouth will cause this great film to increase its box office in the coming weeks.A film for all ages - myself, my children, my grandchildren and even my quite young great grandchild. This is as family fare as it can get these days. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never stopped laughing. The humor in this film is universal, anyone will love it (I'm not Greek and I sure did). Well acted, well written, this movie should be doing a lot better in the theaters than it is. One of the funniest flicks I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Big fat belly laughs and tears!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love movies that make me laugh and cry. This one does.When Tula, a 30 ish frumpy Greek Girl realizes her future  is moreof the same as a spinster frumpy Greek Girl, she prettifies herself,makes changes in her career and faster than you can sayYasou---  finds the Wasp of her dreams. But her overbearingGreek family doesn't approve.I found myself shamelessly routing for the frumpy CinderellaGreek Girl (played to perfection by author actress Nia Vardalos) as it plays into our romantic fantasies. Belly laughs aboundespecially-as is the customs of Greeks-to spit on the bride as shewalks down the aisle much to the chagrin of the Waspy Inlaws.Zwick knows how to pace the action seemlessly. Hystericalperformances by Michael Constantine, Lainie Kazan and AndreaMartin. You don't see the laughs coming. Yes it's a tad oldfashioned but so is  romeo and juliet. See this movie "},{"Title":"A film marriage","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend's mother advised us to see this movie and we were not disappointed.I look at this movie as more a character study than pure comedy or ethnic humor. I also see the movie as a marriage of two other films Meet the Parents and Fiddler on the Roof. For those that have seen both of these, the relationships will be obvious. "}{"Title":"Wonderful flick!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you want to see when you go out on the weekend. This is a movie for all ages (some subtle mature themes). It's filled with ethnic jokes (Greek) everyone can relate to.   A must see.   "},{"Title":"Ten outta ten.......great flick.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have seen Muriel's Wedding and liked it, you will love this film. The greco-americans in the audience were howling from word-one of the movie. Having grown up in RI, I can assure you, this film's humor applies to immigrants of any sort of Mediterranean descent, not just greek.  Really well written, such a refreshing change from most Hollywood crap. "},{"Title":"Funny Has you laughing throughout","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.  I saw it last week and would even go again if it weren't for the fact that it cost $9. a ticket.  The cast was superb. Tom Hanks and his wive (a Greek girl)Rita Wilson saw this one woman show and decided to produce this film.  Im happy they did. When it comes out on DVD I probably buy it. "},{"Title":"I didn't know Tevye had Greek relatives!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charming, funny, wry, guaranteed to make you smile and all the other cliches.  And smart.Nia Vardalos' story of a wallflower blooming both externally and internally, mixed with the self-tweaking romantic humor reminiscent of a younger Woody Allen or Nora Ephron writing When Harry Met Sally ..., works.   That we've seen the big, crazy, aggravating, ethnic family in America in so many other pictures is nothing new;  that this time they're Greek, maybe;  that its done with more love and less angst (somewhat;-) than has been beaten into our heads before, refreshing.I found myself wanting to marry the lead character.  I pray that her creator grows as a storyteller without losing her charming, self-deprecating wit (Nia, learn from Woody's mistake!) "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding Laughs! D D D","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My name is John Panagopoulos.Yes, my last name is Greek and I am Greek, Greek Orthodox to be exact.Yeah, my name is long (many Greek surnames are quite longer), but not that hard to pronounce.Parse it into syllables and say it slowly....Pa - na - gop (hard g, like gus)- ou - los.Now that wasn't so difficult was it?Like many other ethnic groups, Greeks have endured their slings and brickbats of outrageous prejudice, stereotyping, and even general indifference. I believe many consider Greeks the evolutionary equivalent of paramecia. But I am not here to bewail Greek ethnic suffering, but to praise My Big Fat Greek Wedding, a movie I took my fairly conservative but reasonable Greek parents to see. I honestly confess I laughed uproariously and continually throughout the movie. To non-Greeks, Toula's Greek universe may seem cartoonish, surreal, and even outrageously sitcommy. Perhaps, but the exaggeration is just a smidgen much. I assure you the Greek beliefs, mannerisms, characteristics, and ideosyncrasies the game cast manifests on the screen do exist indeed. Tia Vardalos manages to satirize, lampoon, and skewer a vast variety of Greek life elements. Yet, she is not vicious, mean-spirited, or self-loathing. For all the guffaws, frenetic pacing, and boisterous interaction of the huge cast, My Big Fat Greek Wedding graciously and generously reveals the sweet heart and humanity of her extended exasperating family. As the cliché goes, I laughed a lot with recognition and cried a little with recognition.It is pointless to rehash the admittedly derivative plot it's a pastiche (this is the Greek word for casserole by the way, as Toulas irascible father would say) of Romeo and Juliet, Father of the Bride, Only the Lonely and every ugly duckling, coming of age, class warfare and crazy ethnic movie you can conceive. But who cares? The movie is achingly funny, people, for both Greeks and non-Greeks. I would recommend all families - ESPECIALLY Greek families- to see this hilarious farce. They will be pleasantly shocked by how true to Greek life it gets. My Big Fat Greek Wedding serves as a concise but comprehensive primer to Greeks in general. If you're not careful, you may learn something about us kooky, overlooked Greeks.Not once was I bored with this treasure of a movie. No one is an irredeemable villain in this movie, not even the obvious target of the chauvinistic patriarch, who only really wants his family to be happy. Everybody is flawed, but everybody also has their worth. Each actor/actress in the film was an unfettered joy to behold, and contributes admirably to the overall effect of a wonderful slice of precious ethnicity.Apart from two anatomy jokes a couple of Greek cousins dupe Ian Miller, Toula's beau, into uttering in Greek, the movie is not profane, depraved, or crude. This is a family movie in every sense of the world.My commentary could easily extend into a surgical dissertation of every joke, character, plot device, and theme this celluloid cornucopia abundantly yields forth. But I will conclude with a paraphrasing of the theme the Greek patriach (Michael Constantine - a real Greek) hilariously and touchingly enunciates The world is more than a melting pot. It is a fruit basket where apples (Millers) and oranges (Portokaloses) must and can happily live together with warmth, mutual respect, and happiness.You better believe I'll purchase this movie when it emerges on DVD!!!!!!!!!!P.S. I almost forgot; my parents loved the movie too, though they're still a bit dismayed about Greeks marrying xeni (non-Greek stranger), though they admit that it is all but inevitable. In fact, my mom thought the xenos elements was even a bit dated; more and more, Greeks are marrying non-Greeks. "},{"Title":"Big fat entertaining film","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film won't win any awards, but you will walk out of it feeling good. It has lots of ethnic humor and stereotypical characters, but they all have good hearts. Of course, if you're of Greek extraction give it an extra star. Lanie Kazan and Michael Constantine portray the parents of Toula (Nia Vardalos, who also wrote the screenplay). Toula is 30 and not yet married to a nice Greek boy. They are all losing hope when Toula meets Ian (John Corbett, Aidan from Sex and the City) who is not Greek. Romantic complications ensue, but the characters are charming if loud. Andrea Martin is particularly good as an aunt. A fun romantic comedy that will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Slogging, Made for TV Quality","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I was prejudiced, having been diverted from sold-out Attack of the Clones. The only people in the theater who enjoyed the repetitious, heavy-handed ethic self-deprecation seemed to be the big Greek families seeing the movie together. The storyline did at least move along, and didn't present conflict and resolution in a predictable Hollywood screenwriter fashion. To me it seemed a slice of life, albeit a tiresome one. It did delight my girlfriend.  Change a few personal names, change actors and the script could have been about Italians, Koreans, or Cubans. I was surprised a one-note wonder made it to the multiplex, I would have expected this to be seen at a less-inspiring night at the Miramax screen. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be the best wedding picture ever.  If you have ever lived in an immigrant family, be it Greek, Italian, or Chinese, you will see all your friends and family on the screen.  This is the truest depiction of the immigrant experience on film today.  Additionally, the film is absolutely hilarious. Don't miss it.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A must-see comedy","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For once, a comedy that is actually funny! I can't say enough good things about this film. The screenplay is very well written, the casting is great, the acting is terrific, etc. More laughs here than just about any movie out there (and without sinking to vulgarity and crudeness). Honestly, I've never heard the whole audience laugh as much as when I saw this movie. In my opinion, it's one of the best comedies ever made. My compliments to Nia Vardalos, plus the rest of the cast and crew, on a job well done!! I highly recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"sweet, charming, and P*** YOURSELF HILARIOUS","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie was one of the most enjoyable experiences I've had in a long time. It was a heart-warming story of Toula's big, crazy Greek family trying to accept her WASP fiancee. The acting was incredible, especially from the colorful, hilarious family members. Excellent comic timing, and a lively pace accentuate the genuine but over-the-top characters. There wasn't one actor who doesn't give an amazing performance. Particularly entertaining are Louis Mandylor as the macho artist brother Nick, Andrea Martin as the nagging, crazy Aunt Voula, and Gia Carides as the slutty cousin Nikki. Also, Nia Vardalos both wrote the screenplay and stars in the film. Though the plot itself was a cheesy romance, you completely forgive that because of how wonderful the rest is. This movie is truly a gem. "}{"Title":"Funny, funny movie that will make you want to see more!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Relative newcomer-actress and Second City alum Nia Vardalos has written what has got to be the funniest movie since 2000's Best in Show. 'Greek Wedding' is funny from its first moments, showing the agony of Vardalos' character, Toula Portokalos, growing up in the shadow of older, prettier sister Athena (Stavroula Logothettis).Now at 30, Toula is determined not just to marry Greek for the sake of getting married. Instead, she takes courses in computers to be able to get away from the family restaurant and work at her Aunt Voula's (Andrea Martin) travel agency.While there, Toula begins a romance with laid-back, non-ethnic Ian Miller (John Corbett), who is about as whitebread as he could be without being a quarterback for some obscure Iowa college. It's the clash of the Titanic Portokalos family against the Millers that is the setup for many of the film's jokes, but it's Vardalos' witty and often subtle writing that makes this a truly sweet and entertaining film, and not just another wacky hijinx at the wedding movie.There are no falling into cake gags, or misunderstandings where suspicious newlyweds-to-be find their betrothed with another. No, Vardalos has given us a genuine and well-crafted look into one family's ethnicity-based views on love, marriage and, of course, being Greek.There are two kinds of screenwriters who write movies about weddings Those who write movies like My Big Fat Greek Wedding and those who wish they could write movies like My Big Fat Greek Wedding. See the movie and you'll get the joke...and a whole lot more. "},{"Title":"Can't tell them directly? Show them the film.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is required viewing for all Greek parents. The movie depicts a known reality using well designed humor and exaggeration. Many greeks will see their own experiences subtly reflected in many aspects of this movie. Exaggeration makes non-greeks have a great time too. Every greek will find a Windex in their family. Maybe other people will too. I would not be surprised if this is actually what the writer lived through on her wedding. "},{"Title":"a crowd-pleasing ethnic comedy","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is a true crowd-pleasing triumph, a lighthearted look at that age-old clash between Old World customs and New World values that has so defined the American immigrant culture.  Written by Nia Vardalos and directed by Joel Zwick, the film - though it focuses more on the woman than the man in the relationship - is, in many ways, an ethnic Greek version of `Meet the Parents,' with John Corbett as the outsider trying to impress the family of his fiancé, Toula Portokalos, played by none other than the screenwriter herself.  Toula is an introverted, 30-year old plain Jane who still has enough personal ambition to want something better than the life her father, a traditionalist from the old school, has mapped out for her.  Her options, as defined by tradition, boil down to two marriage to a Greek man (an increasingly unlikely possibility) or a `career' helping run the family restaurant business.  Toula's father's dreams for her begin to crumble when she enrolls in college and falls in love with a handsome (but decidedly non-Greek) high school English teacher.   Not unexpectedly, much of the humor of the film derives from Toula's father's apoplectic reaction to his daughter's unconventional life choices, the good-natured parodying of the accoutrements of Greek culture, and the juxtaposition between the unbridled crassness and high-spirited nature of Toula's family and the soulless propriety of John's uptight WASP parents.  `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' doesn't break any new ground thematically, and some of the humor in the earlier sections might have been more effective had it been developed less along the lines of broad slapstick and more along the lines of verbal subtlety.  Nevertheless, the introductory sequences, tracing the nightmarish childhood Toula had to go through living with her Greek-obsessed father, are very clever and very funny.  And once Toula and John's relationship is uncovered to the family, the film hits its stride and never lets up.  Credit director Zwick with keeping the action moving along at a merry clip (the wedding morning sequence is particularly well paced) and Vardalos with keeping the one-liners coming fast and furious.As an actress, Vardalos has a natural charm that compensates for a certain stiffness that creeps into her performance from time to time, and Ian Miller complements her nicely as her bemused but stalwart intended.  Michael Constantine walks off with the film as Toula's hyperkinetic father, and Lainie Kazan provides both heft and ballast as Toula's shrewd and rational mother, who long ago learned to play the game of this male dominated society to her own (and her spiritedly independent daughter's) advantage.  In fact, the entire cast of supporting actors and actresses is superb.Marked by a high energy level and a generous spirit, `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' is one of those small films that, through sheer word-of-mouth, will have no trouble finding that specialized audience that can fully appreciate its manifold pleasures and charms.    "},{"Title":"A BIG Thumbs Up!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two minutes into this movie and I had a smile on my face.  It remained there throughout the entire picture along with many big belly laughs and a few moments that, for a guy, made my eyes fill up with tears.Tula is a Greek girl now 30 and unmarried.  Her family is driving her nuts, especially her father (Michael Constantine), about finding a man.  One day she meets Ian (John Corbett of Sex & the City and Northern Exposure) when he comes into the family restaurant.  It is apparent she finds this guy attractive.  They don't meet again until she goes to work for her aunt's (Andrea Martin of Second City TV.  She is well known on SCTV as Edith Prickley) Travel agency.  Ian walks by, sees her, and they fall in love.She's Greek, he isn't and her family wants and expects her to marry a Greek. That's when all the real fun begins.  I laughed hard because all these people are somewhat real - you've probably met them in real life. Lainie Kazan plays the mother perfectly.  Joey Fatone (of 'N Sync) does a fine job as a funny cousin!I won't spoil the end for you but all the antics are funny, there are charming and very moving moments like when Ian and Tula are in bed together and Ian asks her to marry him and the wedding gift from the parents made me cry.  There are very funny sibling moments Tula's brother Nicky keeps giving Ian bad language phrases for simple things like, how do I say thank you? (Nicky gives him a greek phrase which turns out to say big boobs). In another instance Ian wants to thank the entire Greek family for coming to the engagement party.  Nicky gives him a phrase but Ian doesn't trust him so he asks Angelo (Joey Fatone).  Angelo gives him the same phrase Nicky offered and it turns out to really say I've got three testicles!  The look on the faces of the entire family is priceless.  They pause sober-faced and look at one another then burst into smiles and applause because Greeks believe in very large families and surely Ian will father many children with three testicles!  It is soooo funny!Ian is hunky and handsome, Tula is frumpy but turns into a beautiful Greek swan, family hilarious and the wedding is huge.  In the wedding scene it is a custom in the Greek tradition to spit (not really, just a 'pa-tooey' kind of thing) on a person for good luck - the entire huge family spits on Tula as she walks down the isle and it is uproarious!I HIGHLY recommend this movie for mid-teens and above.  Very funny, the end is sweet as hell, and you walk out feeling very good.  You won't forget this movie and you keep recalling the funny scenes.The girl who plays Tula is not a well known actress (although she will be from now on) and she wrote the screen and stage play, a play she had been performing for a few years before turning it into a movie.  She did a marvelous job and the jokes are honed and very well done and timed.It is a charmer! TWO THUMBS UP! "},{"Title":"Quirky, nice little movie, but in danger of over-drool from cognoscenti wannabes","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good little movie. Are Chicagoans of Greek descent really this ethnocentric and quirky? Maybe--- don't know any. Michael Constantine, who I recall really IS of Greek descent, does a wonderful job playing the eccentric, oddball patriarch of the supposed modern American family still clinging to their Greek heritage and Greek identity. The older the character, the stronger the Greekness, and the odder the contrast between Greek culture and American. Grandma, a recent import from Greece itself, is four feet tall, and still dresses in black like Catholic nuns used to dress. Naturally, as in all comedies like this, she is crazy as a bed bug. The movie's lead character, her 30 year-old spinster granddaughter, knows all the lingo and behaviors of being Grecian in Chicago, but evidently prefers the modern ways. Every character makes an entrance; they never just show up in a room. Everyone is largely writ with behaviors that apparently signal Greekness to the audience. At times it's almost as if the audience stumbled into the waiting room for a casting director, waiting to audition for a Saturday Night Live Zorba parody.The super straight character played by John Corbett seemed nice enough. Corbett has a charm that should go further than it has in movie roles. The Corbett character's parents were funny, albeit a one-note gag that went on for 2 hours.Overall, it was fine. It was certainly better than the recent French import, Amelie. Amelie was fine, too, but it was hailed as Received Art, drooled over by the cognoscenti wannabes, and spoken about in Hushed Tones. When in reality, it was a merely nice, pleasant piece of fluff. My Big Fat Greek Wedding might succumb to a similar fate Ethnic themes, non-traditional plot lines, and subtle-as-a-semi-truck casting MIGHT lead audiences to speak of this movie in Hushed Tones. Do a bit of hem-kissing. I heard a bit of that from fellow audience members as the movie was over and we were exiting the theater. That kind of b.s. might have been one of the things that did Amelie in at the Oscars. Not the movie's fault, of course, but there you are. This movie is good hearted, sincere, and probably about something real. Don't let's spoil that by by doing a James Lipton on it. Watch it; enjoy it; let it go! "},{"Title":"Entertaining! We need more movies like this.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie.It makes you laugh, cry and you walk away smiling. This what America is all about.How could you not love a movie that gives you all that. The actors were perfect for their parts, and the writers were so witty in their lines. Why cant we have more movies like this. A movie for all to see. GOOD JOB.    "},{"Title":"We are all fruit...","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A film for anyone and everyone.  No nudity,  violence,  foul language, or hit star (my apologies to Lainie Kazan & Room 222 fans).  The only grumbling at the theater was when the film ended . . . we wanted more. The movie goer in the seat next to mine whispered to her husband, Honey, I think we are Greek. Go! See! Enjoy! Maybe you will find that you are a Greek as well.  OOOpa!!! "},{"Title":"True to Life","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie was very true to life.  It was funny and very enjoyable. The casting was perfect. Can't wait to see it again. I know I missed some comments. Because of the laughter. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this gem, one of the year's best!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful love story about two opposite cultures in America. Heartfelt, touching and laugh out loud funny. Bravo to the entire cast and crew for this one. I could not recommend this film highly enough. Run out and watch it, you will not be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"The most hysterical movie I've ever seen!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie I can honestly watch over and over again.  Nia's plight as the only daughter in a strict Greek-American family--let's just say it hit really close to home.  While I did end up marrying a Greek boy, I see how my cousins who married a xeno have had to deal with the things that Toula and Ian also went through in the movie.  From the rascally brother teaching the unsuspecting brother-in-law bad words in Greek to the more serious conversion of religion to be accepted as a son-in-law.  All the actors did a wonderful job--including the non-Greek actors in Greek roles.  John Corbett was the perfect Ian Miller and his parents in the film were hilarious as the uptight WASPs.  Ethnic and non-ethnic people alike were all crying from laughing so hard in the theater where I saw this movie.  Take your mother, take your grandmother, just take people and go see this fabulous, funny movie. "}{"Title":"Don't miss this gem, one of the year's best!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful love story about two opposite cultures in America. Heartfelt, touching and laugh out loud funny. Bravo to the entire cast and crew for this one. I could not recomend this film highly enough. Run out and watch it, you will not be dissapointed "},{"Title":"Those Damn Crazy Greeks","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I walked into My Big Fat Greek Wedding about five minutes lateexpecting, nonetheless, to find any seat I desired due to theabsence of interested people.  What I got was just the opposite Hundreds of black-haired, unibrowed-faced Greeks, laughing,crying, and feeling every emotion of the film's multiple charactersjust as they were occurring.  It was truly a sight to see, finally familyunification in a society where togetherness is as rare as thepossibility of the A-Team coming back for a reunion.  The film,although containing so many Greeks, was extremely easy to followas each character shined with their own unique personality.  BeingItalian, Wedding made me realize just how close our  mediterranean neighbors are to us, excluding the excessivedancing.  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one film that should beseen by all, Greek or non-Greek.  Bring your family, and walk outfeeling like the big fat happy one you just saw. "},{"Title":"for young and old,","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An all-around crowd pleaser, even the 13 year old girls (that would rather be watching N Sync or O-Town)that I was with, were smiling for much of this movie.  Everyone loves ethnic humor,and it wasn't too heavy handed like other movies depicting ethnic families. It was realistic, not schmaltzy, and the acting was just fine. Loved the main star, so un-Hollywood. Loved Andrea Martin, a non-Greek who did a great job. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the one-woman show that was the inspiration for this movie several years ago(at the Globe Theatre in West Hollywood, CA).  The movie basically follows the same storyline, but it's obviously greatly opened up with the addition of additional characters and actors playing them.I'm assuming the movie is semi-autobiographical, because in real life Nia Vardalos (the author and star) is married to a man named Ian, just like in the movie; however, her real-life Ian is Ian Gomez, the guy who plays the movie Ian's (Ian Miller--played by John Corbett) best friend, Mike.  (He's also on The Drew Carey Show, Felicity and the late Norm.)  I seem to recall that the Ian in the one-woman show/play was British, but I could be mistaken.  In any event, it seems unlikely that Ian GOMEZ's family could be as whitebread/WASPy as Ian Miller's in the movie!  In fact, Ian Gomez's IMDB listing says he's of Puerto Rican, Jewish and GREEK extraction, so I'd assume the real-life romance wasn't quite the culture shock that the movie presents. Anyway, that said, I enjoyed the movie quite a bit.  It's full of ethnic stereotypes, and I don't mean just stereotyping of Greeks and Greek-Americans.  As I said above, Ian Miller's family is about as uptighty-whitey as they come!  So, if you enjoy broad ethnic comedy (think The Nanny), you will enjoy this.My only other comment is that this movie seems to be a bit anachronistic. I'm not sure when it was set, but it seems to be fairly modern-day.  I have a hard time believing that women today (or even in the past 20 years) would feel as repressed/oppressed as the Toula did in this one.  Do 30-year-old women in this country of ANY ethnicity have to ask their father's permission to go to college? To date?   "},{"Title":"INGENIOUS!!!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to the premiere last night in NYC, let's just say I walked out of there with mascara running down my along my cheeks. I'm still cracking up! Nia and John introduced the film.  John looks even better in person.This movie is a MUST SEE!!!  It's hysterical, charming and different from any other wedding movie.  Ya gotta love being GREEK!  HAHAA!  "},{"Title":"If you want laughs, this is the movie to see.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hate to sound like a critic, but My Big Fat Greek Wedding is the best movie of the year. Nia Vardalos, the star and writer of this movie has created a masterpiece.  Off the top of my head, I think only Neil Simon packs as many genuine laughs into his screenplays, as Nia does in this one.Nia is wonderful as Toula Portokalos, and John Corbett is a perfect Ian Miller, her suitor. The performances of the other players are excellent across the board.  From Michael Constantine (father Gus), to Lainie Kazan (mother Maria), to Andrea Martin (aunt Voula).  Bess Meisler is a hoot as Gus's mother, recently brought over from Greece.The story itself is a standard. Toula, 30, single, and old looking (her fathers words), is stuck in a dead end job as a waitress (she prefers the title seating hostess).  She decides to go to college to study computer science, and, having taken this bold step out into the real world, a transformation occurs.  She gains confidence, chucks her eyeglasses for contacts, and, after taking a job in her aunt's travel agency, attracts Ian.  This all doesn't sit well with her father, only because Ian Miller is not Greek.  If he were Greek, Gus would be in heaven, but there would be no movie.Luckily for us, he isn't Greek, and there is this wonderful film. Gus puts up a bit of a fight over Ian's non-Greekness, but Maria intervenes, and sees the true love that Toula has found, which is something the whole family has been hopeing for.  Ian's parents are quiet and reserved, providing the perfect contrast to the boisterous Portokalos clan. The courtship is brief and quickly progresses to the wedding, with many laugh filled moments in between.  If given a chance, My Big Fat Greek Wedding can be a huge success. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having grown up as a Greek in America, I could totally relate to this movie. It was hysterical.  Non-Greeks might not get all the humor, but it will certainly give them an idea of what the culture is like.  I'm sure others raised in an ethnic environment will find something to relate to. "},{"Title":"Good ethnic humor makes this worth seeing.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a sucker for a movie with wedding in its title and this one does not disappoint. Lots of ethnic humor, lots of ethnic dancing and lots of ethnic charm too.Toula, played by Nia Vardalos who also wrote the screenplay, is the so unmarried daughter of Gus Portokalos (Michael Constantine), Greek restaurant owner who believes all knowledge and understanding emanates from Greece. He goes ballistic when Toula falls for Ian (John Corbett) who happens not to be from the Old Country. The fun starts when Gus's prolific family conspire to convince him you don't have to be Greek to be a nice guy.There are the usual cousins/nephews/sons and daughters-in-law/fathers and mothers-in-law/ lots of people called Nick interacting and acting out genuine humor as the wedding switches off and on and then off again. Director Joel Zwick keeps the fun low key, an aspect I found surprisingly affective. Certainly worth seeing for those who like this sort of thing.  "},{"Title":"A Big, Fat Waste of your Time","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To be fair, let me state up front that my idea of a romantic comedy is The War of the Roses. The nicest thing I can say about My Big Fat Greek Wedding is that it was occasionally mildly amusing and almost completely not crass. All of the actors produced adequate to very good performances. On the other hand, it is missing some very important story elements.Take for instance the first time I wished the movie was over. It was only about thirty minutes in. I felt like I was bleeding to death in a warm bath. There was no discernible conflict driving the plot forward, and only the interminable grinding of time managed to drag this movie to its final conclusion.So, if goofy romance for its own sake is your thing or you like movies about happy families just enjoying themselves, then this one will appeal to you. If you're a big traditional wedding fan, it has a lot to offer. However, if you don't fit into any of the aforementioned categories, it's a big, fat waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Because I came alive when I met you","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I lived in Crete for two years and I found so much in this film to enjoy that it is a favorite. Having said that, I would imagine that those who are not familiar with the Greek world would be a little lost and maybe not enjoy it as much as I did.Truly, Nia Vardalos, who starred as Toula, wrote a brilliant screenplay and gave everyone a window into the Greek world. It is a fun world where family is most important. I really mean MOST important. Knowing this one fact is critical to enjoyment of the movie. My landlord in Crete built a three-story apartment. The top floor was theirs and the bottom two floors were rented until their daughter was married. They would provide a place for her to live. Their relatives occupied other apartments on the block. They made frequent trips to the village to see other relatives. This is all strange to me, who basically sees family only when someone dies.The movie is all about Toula and Ian (John Corbett) trying to stay together while the family learns to accept him, and he learns the family's customs and ways. This is what makes for good comedy. "}{"Title":"Vardolos's Performance And Script","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING **** Nia Vardolos attained worldwide acclaim for her fresh, delightful handwritten script and performance in this film about life as a Greek women. Unmarried Vardolos disappoints her family as she has not fulfilled the two lawful customs enforced upon Greek women to marry a Greek man and raise a family. She eventually meets a non-Greek English professor (John Corbett), who wholly returns her affection, and they soon become wed. From this point, contention resides within Vardolos's family as they decide whether to accept or resent her engagement to Corbett. Vardolos is wonderful in the leading role. The supporting actors shine, particularly Andrea Martin as the aunt with comical vigor. Well-worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Fine but not great. Stereotyping kinda applies to us Turks too, this was an interesting point.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie did not hit so big here in Turkey at the theatres, but I've seen this movie in my uncle's house and he says that nowadays among rental DVDs, this movie was going like hotcakes, and each watcher watched at least twice. Maybe it's because of Yabanci Damat (Foreigner son-in-law) craze in Turkey and Greece. It is a TV series http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0434735/ about an international marriage between a Turkish girl and a Greek boy. This swept both countries and people at both sides are observing their so close but so far away neighbours. This can be a reason.Obviously the differences between Turkish and Greek people are more political than social. In the movie, the attitudes of the Greek family members can be completely fitted to a Turkish family. They say that this is applicable to many ethnicities (Spanish, Italian, Arab etc.) but particularly to the Turks. In each scene we went oh, just like in here, familiar to me, isn't that guy like cousin x and so on.The family looks too stuck in the past, some comments say. Some immigrant people tend to be stuck in the past, obsessed with their own culture and country and not attempting to get closer to the mainstream society of the country they live in. This family is too, just like many immigrant Turkish families living in Germany and other parts of Europe. Many people have negative feelings about people they fought battles with, just like the elderly grandmother in this movie yelling Ugly Turk and her elderly Turkish counterparts in Turkey shouting out Greek seed to the people they're angry with. Obvious similarities does not end here...General attitude, kissing and hugging type greeting, girls marrying early, guys teaching bad/funny words to unsuspecting foreigners as greetings, large families, getting too intimate with people that are just met (aunt telling about the lump on the neck) Food (Mousakka/musakka, lamb on a skit, ouzo/raki), dancing in the wedding (we have a similar-looking folk dance), husband being the head and wife being a neck (a common item in Turkish movies/TV), even the spitting habit to avoid the devil (we pull our ears and knock on wood while spitting, a little difference here). are easily applied to Turkey and the Turkish, and this gives a pleasure of watching and makes you sympathized with the Greek family. And also note the music from the soundtrack that have familiar tunes to Turkish ears (especially the one in the banquet that parents meet for the first time.About the father saying that every word came from Greek origins, actually there was a theory in Turkish linguistic circles that all languages deriving from Turkish language. Some people even now believe that and make explanations as is. And the obvious fact that people want sons/daughters-in-laws from their own background...this applies especially to the daughters and unfortunately it's still a father's worst nightmare that his daughter marries a foreigner in Turkey, apparently in Greece too. A research of Greek-Turkish love relationship portrayed on literature of both countries, it says that in both countries' novels etc. the man is from own country and the woman is from the other. This was an interesting point. In both Yabanci Damat and MBFGW, the gender roles are changing and the family gives in and let their daughter marry a foreigner, still a taboo in both nations.Movie itself....well I must say that fine but not too great. Story was kinda slow and tension too less for a movie setting like this. Too much emphasize on cultural differences makes this a bit dull. the colorful (white and blue mostly) characters of the father and the mother save the day and the groom's family could be made a little more...how to say....talkative, they hardly even speak. There's also a little historical mistake when the mother tells Toula about We had war with Germans, Turks since that German-Greek wars happened on Greece, whereas Greek-Turkey war took place in Turkey, and I don't recall any Turkish-German alliance against Greece from any history lesson I had. "},{"Title":"The highest grossing film to have no conflict whatsoever.","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Of all the great underground films that deserve to be hits, WHY??? This film is like attending your typical wedding. You sit down, a few amusing tidbits happen (usually having to do with the flower girl) and then the couple get married. One might wonder what is wrong with this analogy so allow me to ask, WHERE THE HELL WAS THE CONFLICT? Every great movie has a character trying to achieve a goal but is blocked by various obstacles. In this movie there is no true threat to her upcoming marriage. As an audience member you expect with the arrival of the groom's parents that they will present one with the typical her family is so different, we don't want you to marry her which would lead to the typical reconciliation. But upon their arrival they prove to be non-entities (as well as disturbing concerning the mother) and no attempt is made to block anything. Is this what you as an audience member want? A new variety of inane feel-good comedy that takes out anything challenging or dramatic. If so, just sneak into a local wedding, don't spend money on it and fool Hollywood that is what we want. My big fat Greek wedding is a very small slice of comedic cinema, and the Connie and Carla debacle should have everyone watching their DVD copy of MBFGW with a more discerning eye. "},{"Title":"Nothing new here","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't figure out why so many people liked this film AS MUCH as they did. Yes it was stereotypical, that cannot be avoided. The art, which is lacking, is in making it less predictable. Not only was it predictable but there are times when it became so episodic that it fell flat--towards the end when the couple are about to be married I thought it would bring things together, create some interest, make something happen. Nothing happened. They got married without a hitch, everyone lived happily ever after. No awkward moments, no signs of insight or growth. Comedy has to work a lot harder than that to merit a happy ending. The character of the groom was especially troubling as he seemed not to have been given a personality--just a persona, i.e. the one who loves. Give me Renee Taylor any day in Made for each other, or Lovers and other strangers for ethnic humor, with substance! And real laughs. P.S. Love Lainie Kazan. "},{"Title":"Innocuous","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Maybe it's because I'm not Greek, but I simply do not get this movie. These two people meet, and they want to get married. Along the way they meet his and her family -- mostly hers, who are largely annoying but don't get in anyone's way. Her father poses the biggest hurdle, but is too impotent to do anything. Her fiancé is too perfect and too nice to let her family bother him, and we don't know why he suddenly likes her other than that she decided to come out of her thirty-year shell. The direction was fine, the acting was fine, but the screenplay didn't make demands on anyone. I think it's great that Nia Vardalos wants to share her story with the world, but has anyone ever hear about rising and falling action? Why can't everybody just make a movie about their wedding? As long as it's accurate, it's interesting, right? Moonstruck was twice the movie this was. "},{"Title":"a movie many of us can relate to","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed My Big Fat Greek Wedding. I think anyone of Italian, Greek, Jewish - well, just about any descent, can really appreciate the humor.Of course, it has a little bit of fantasy in it as well as reality with the introduction of the John Corbett character. He is a hunk, and I think from that point on, the film becomes a little less realistic for many but still great fun. This is a very funny, warm film, with some excellent performances from Lainie Kazan, Andrea Martin, Michael Constantine, etc.They say write about what you know, and this is a great case in point. The entire family situation feels right on with some hilarious scenes. I'm not sure how long the film is, but it flew by. "},{"Title":"Every Chinese's Small Slim Traditional Wedding","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't even remember how many times my friends have pushed me to see this movie.  Highly and hotly recommended.  They are correct.  Just far too many similarities between the film and our own culture and customs.  I can even relate myself to Toula if I were a Taiwanese or Mainland Chinese MAN living in a certain China town somewhere in the Western world.Greek is equal to Chinese, (ah, perhaps the Chinese and the Greek may have perfect matrimonial life, have to do a survey between these two countries.) There is a Greek say, It's all Chinese to me. when they come across something they don't understand, and in English language, it is It's all Greek to me.  Seemingly, to many, these two ancient countries are not that easy to comprehend.We have many Taiwanese Toulas.  We have many male Toulas in China towns.  Some fifteen or twenty years ago, overseas Chinese single guys would come back Hong Kong, Taiwan and China to look for wives because their parents didn't want to have half white and half yellow grandkids.  Just watch Ang Lee's The Wedding Banquet (1993). What a big relief that the old people are not that obstinate now.Not only in Hong Kong, China and Taiwan that you may see this story playing in some families, maybe also in Japan, Korean, Singapore, Cambodia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Italy, Spain, Portugal, the entire Middle East...  And so you may also have this drama in every China/Japan/Korea... towns in Europe or US.  Well, don't tell me Caucasian Americans or Europeans are that open to let their children tie the knot with a guy or gal not of their own skin colour.  East coast Caucasians might hesitate when thinking about a black or Asian son or daughter-in-law.Large noisy and nosy families which never separate but gather together inside China town all the time, noisy festive time (every Chinese festival is noisy, anyway), family business, father is the head of the family, too close family relationship, parents run up from a shoestring and blah blah blah...  They are all too familiar and lovely. "},{"Title":"A silent romantic comedy classic","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't advertised too much. My mother rented the movie and told me it was histerical. So, I watched it with her. Not the same laughs I got as she had, but I did enjoy it. There are some very funny lines. And a great new actress. The man who played the father stole the movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Pile Of","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After 15 minutes, any lingering hope that this pap might contain something entertaining evaporates.  The plot is predictable, the characters are one-dimensional, there is no functional humour of any description, this film does not work on any level.  Unless, perhaps, you are senile, American, and can understand foreign cultures only in an assinine, shallow way.  The Greek element is so derogatory and feeble, it defies belief.  And I was truly disturbed to see from the end credits that there were people with Greek names involved in both the acting and production of this film.  Or was I? "},{"Title":"cute, funny","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charming romantic comedy, often quite funny.  I don't really understand why this became such a huge hit, but it's very likeable.  Also an ultimate girl fantasy sort of movie, in which the plain Jane gets the charming, good-looking guy who always says and does just the right thing.  "}{"Title":"What is good with this movie?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Please explain to me what is so good with this movie? The story is trivial, if existing, the jokes consist of clichés on top of another, and there is no climax whatsoever. Was it intended that this movie should just go on and on without anything unexpected or even bad happening at any time? Normally movies tend to have some climax of suspense close to the end, and I beleive that is for a reason... "},{"Title":"well written but overrated","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty good, but it doesn't deserve all the praise it has received.  It's clever and does have some funny moments, and the best part is the screenplay and the unique plot.  The movie is about 90 minutes long, and it flows along smoothly. It's just the right length.  But, I definitely think it is over-hyped because I was expecting to see the best movie of 2002 from what people have told me, but it was just OK. It certainly won't make my list of top 10 movies.Most of the laughs come from Toula's Greek family, especially her dad which thinks he should run the household and has to basically be tricked into letting Toula leave the restaurant and join the travel agency. It was Toula's and some other family members idea, but they must make the dad think it is his idea. That was funny.  I didn't buy Toula's character in the beginning because she is so plain jane, and all of a sudden because she goes to college, she totally changes her appearance by wearing a make-up and a fancy hair-do. I mean why would she look so plain jane if she had all that make-up and stuff to begin with.When Toula meets Ian with the coffee pot that was good and when Ian' parents come over to see Toula's parents.  FINAL VERDICT  Finally, a movie that is a little different with an entertaining story.  It is well written and you won't be looking at your watch.  I recommend it for everyone. "},{"Title":"The title of this movie is misleading","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It has nothing to do with Greeks or Greek culture as they exist in modern Greece today.  It should have been called `My big fat Greek - American wedding' or `My big fat Greek - Canadian wedding' as I understand that Nia Vardalos is Canadian. If the movie was made during the silent era around 100 years ago there would be elements of truth in it but this is 2003 for God's sake.Nia Vardalos has in common with Greek culture as much as I have in common with maple leaf syrup, ice hockey and the Canadian mounties Nothing. "},{"Title":"A bad episode of Raymond","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is made up of stand-up punchlines tied together by a very weak plotline and cliched fairy tale story. Furthermore, some funny scenes are hammed up so they came out not funny and it may be realistic but still not funny.I heard this will be turned to a TV show....Goodluck.Raymond rules!!!!! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was looking forward to having a good time and laughing a lot.  Through the course of this movie I laughed only once. This movie is a mostly routine wedding/Ugly Duckling/wacky relatives movie. A cliche or two is cut, but overall this movie is very boring. * 1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"What's Greek for 'Overrated'?","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so big, it was held over for an 18 week engagement in our small theater (which basically set a record for how long a film has played there). When it came out on DVD, I decided to take a look at the film critics and moviegoers thought was super duper great. Needless to say, it didn't live up to the hype. That's all this movie was, an overhyped product with a bare bones average plot that has been done a million times before. The first half hour or so was amusing, but after a while I was tired of the Greek stereotypes (I'm not Greek BTW, but I do know a stereotype when I see one) and Toula's narration of how every word in the English language has some Greek origin (according to her father). The movie is mostly forgettable. I don't remember much of it after a few weeks of viewing. I do remember getting depressed in the middle of it. I honestly don't know why. I think there were some constant slow parts in the film and it just seemed to lag then go dull. Add it up with a silly final scene, and you have an average film that became overrated because Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson put their stamp of approval on it. The Oscar people also didn't let hype fool them as it was only up for one award.Then spinoff into a TV show was too much. I never watched it but I do remember hearing that it was not that great and that Nia Vardalos was very hard to get along with on the set. Thankfully, it has been sent to that big cancellation chuckwagon in the sky. CBS made it too soon and paid the price.I do give Nia credit for trying. She was very pleasant looking and not an eysore to deal with. But in Hollywood, you are only as good as your last movie. So time will tell if Vardalos is a hitmaker or a one hit wonder. I hope it's the former and not the latter. "},{"Title":"Keep it in perspective!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, so it's not the greatest film ever made, and it's way over-hyped, but don't blame the filmmakers for the hype.   Nia just wanted to make a little film to tell about her family.  She wasn't trying to change the world.  It had a $5 million budget.  What do you expect?!You gotta admire it based on that alone.  It started in a handful of theatres, targeted at the people who would get the joke, and they did. Word of mouth took over, and before long it was grossing gazillions.  I'm sorry, but a film that is as bad as some people here claim would not be able to do that.Keep some perspective and take it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Very good but not -that- good.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a delightful romantic comedy about a frumpy 30'ish Greek wallflower who makes herself over, meets Mr. Right, and has a big, fat Greek wedding. With plaudits from critics and populace alike, this warm-hearted little comedy may have trouble living up to its reputation almost guaranteeing disappointment with a sequel. Though the story isn't anything creatively new and unique (as was Memento for example) this grass-roots-driven flick was the right film in the right place at the right time. With lots of loving ethnic fun-poking, the usual culture clashing, oodles of exaggerated stereotypes, and chock full of Vardalos' bemused and detached brand of humor and sentiment, this mouse that roared  is worth a look by anyone into romcom fare. (B) "},{"Title":"It is never too late in life","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That is the message I got from this film.  It is nice to see a fellow Winnipeger doing well.  I thought this movie was going to be an Artsie film, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I understand the humour in this film as I grew up in East Kildonan and a lot of my friends' families were this way.  All cultures have the good and the bad, but in the end it is what type of people they are.  I believe Windex will fix anything.  I wonder how much of this is from real life or was it all made up.  It was worth renting.  This one should of been one that I should of seen in the theatre.8/10 "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly unnecessary","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is paper-thin, formulaic feel-good nonsense. It consists of nothing that has not gone before, merely with a Greek slant instead of another quaint sub-American stereotyped minority. While not without merit (there are a handful of genuinely funny moments), it remains a mystery why this film was made at all... although perhaps not why people went to see it. Couldn't you all have rented Never Been Kissed again, or something similar, instead? "}{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding is GREAT!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Psyche.  I hated this piece of dog excrement more than anything I've seen all year.  This film should be used to judge intelligence from now on. If you liked it, you're a hopeless idiot.  If you hated it, you at least have some signs of higher brain function.If you're stupid enough to believe that makeup, a hair brush, and some contacts will completely transform a girl's personality from a tree stump to a game show host, then please kill yourself so your moron genes won't get passed on down to another generation.Skip this piece of shight.  "},{"Title":"A Saturday night wasted.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must confess, this type of film is not ordinarily what I would go to see. However, my girlfriend was desperate to see it, so I thought I would be open minded and accompany her.  What a mistake.From the outset, the viewer is subjected to a series of poor jokes involving an over-the-top Greek family and their ever so comical Greek traditions. Plain, downtrodden daughter turns into beautiful, blushing bride.  That's about it.  No plot, no humour, no drama.The lead character's closing line goes something like I've learnt some stuff....., well I too have learnt some 'stuff'.  Don't pay to see this film.  Stay in and watch the snooker instead. "},{"Title":"The crowd frightened me","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie several months after it had debuted in Chicago, but before it made the top 3 list on the weekend box office receipts.  (I used a pass -- otherwise it wouldn't have interested me, although I admit that I love a good chick flick.)  I found it mildly amusing, but mostly predictable in regard to the ethnic stereotypes and the way the story played out. Sometimes it was even the WRONG ethnicity! The major flaw in the story, to me, was the complete lack of chemistry between the  two romantic leads. FYI my 3-star review does not even take into account the fact that a Canadian city body-doubles for Chicago, not to mention the lack of geographical logic inherent with a guy stopping by Greek Town on his way to teach at Lincoln Park High School. I'm still traumatized, however, by the crowd in the theater where I saw this film.  I was very disturbed by how hard they laughed.  I mean, knee-slapping, feet-stomping, ha-ha-ha with tears in their eyes!  Even in the parts where you could recite the line along with the actors because it was so predictable! (Like the bridesmaid dresses.) For some reason, I'm compelled to compare MBFGW with Monsoon Wedding, which I saw a few months previously.  Loved it!  Far superior in capturing similar themes.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a Greek, I have to admit that this movie is excellent!!!! Okay, it might a bit humiliating but this is how we are the Greeks!! I laughed and enjoyed every single minute of it!! -) Did I tell you the word minute is of Greek origin? Oh, I am just kidding!!! ) "},{"Title":"My big fat Jewish-no,sorry-Italian er Indian,er Greek  etc wedding.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This sort of ethnic comedy dates from before the talkies.The Cohens and the Kellys and the Cohens was one of its precursors on the wireless and 70 years down the line it hasn't got any funnier.I hope I don't upset anyone of Greek extraction by saying that the particular ethnicity in this case is not really relevant,it might as well have been called My Big Fat Jewish Wedding and it would have played the same. Stereotype follows stereotype across the screen with unerring inevitability.The parents from The Old Country,the young ones more American than Americans,generational and cultural clashes abound until the weary,predictable climax. I neither wanted nor expected My Big Fat Greek Wedding to be great art,but I did want it to be funny.Sadly I must report that I was grievously disappointed. "},{"Title":"Extended Sitcom, with Very Fine Performances","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's not surprising that an (unsuccessful) attempt was made, after the surprising success of this film with a rather bizarre title, to base a weekly TV sitcom based on the characters. Like a well done sitcom, Greek Wedding goes down easily and warms the heart with its adaptation of Romeo and Juliet or Abie's Irish Rose. This means that the story of young love and family opposition goes down easily and makes a pleasant way to spend the evening. Even though the ethnic disparity between the two families is there, it is given a comedic edge, and no one can doubt that all will work out well. Of course, there is more material than could be contained in a half-hour sitcom, but the elements of the plot could have been divided so as to stretch out the story over a period of weeks. For instance, the boy's vegetarian preference could have made an entire episode. What does set Greek Wedding above the typical sitcom, however, is the high level of the performances, especially those of Michael Constantine and Laine Kazan as the girl's parents. Even as he is condemning the match it is clear that he truly loves his daughter; and because she is so strong (and wise)as the archetypal mother the outcome is never in doubt. There are few false notes, and most viewers will not regret the time spent with these families. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen!!!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Why? Because it's extremely funny (I laughed until I cried), it's sad, it's never boring and you can see this happening to any of your friends any day in any place...The heroine is no stunning beauty and the hero is no hunk but still they are cute, lovable and not at all ugly (just like your favorite teddy bear). You would feel comfortable among them.The story is simple and everything seems genuine. I know a few Greek people and watching this movie was like sitting beside them at their house.And the filming was done in Toronto my favorite city in the world...What more is there for a great movie? "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is not what i expected it to be at all. I expected it to be boring and a waste of time, but now it is one of my favorite movies of all times! I bought it and watch it almost everyday! I like this movie because it kinda reminds me of my Haitian culture with the boisterous and loud families and the fact that Haitian family and relatives would prefer you to get married to a haitian person just like yourself. Furthermore, I like this movie because I never really thought about Greek culture and I never met anyone who is Greek, but this movie sparked my interest and I would really like to learn more about it. Greeks are so cool! I love the language and the accents because it reminds me of my mothers accent, she is from Suriname and she speaks Dutch and her accent is similar to a Greek accent. I give this movie five whole stars! Its the best! "},{"Title":"Not an exceptional film","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reviews had led us to expect a great deal of this film. My wife and I were disappointed, and found it only mediocre--not one of the better films we've seen, but not as bad as many others that are highly rated.The plot is simple, hardly ingenious, and by no means original. The characters are not developed with depth, and most are drawn as caricatures for comic effect. One unfortunate result is that the main character, who tells the story, seems to be ridiculing both her parents and, in a couple of scenes, Greek Orthodox religious practices. The direction and acting are not bad, but not especially good either. The photography and music are above average but not worthy of any award.About thirty years ago, my wife and I saw Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, a very similar plot, beautifully written and carried off by great performers Spencer Tracy, Katherine Hepburn, Katherine Houghton, and Sidney Poitier. That film was far more respectful of the parents but at the same time far funnier. On the 10 scale, we'd have rated it 9. My Big Fat Greek Wedding  is not half as good. We give it a 4.  "},{"Title":"I feel a little overrated","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Talk about hype.  All I heard over the last year was you have to see this movie.  In Cincinnati, the movie was never released close to where I am, so I had to wait for video.  What a disappointment.  The movie moved way too quickly for me.  They go out then 10 minutes later they're married.  The jokes were so-so, nothing really impressed me.  I think critics try to hype up a couple small films a year to try and justify their existence.  6/10 "}{"Title":"Funny southern Europeans","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most of the already known jokes about collisions between cultures appear here. You've seen them before and you've seen them better done. All people of Greek heritage ought to get mad about this film, which is supposed to show Greek people as warm-hearted, loud clowns with a very high opinion about themselves. This is racism, because one really is supposed to laugh at these ridiculous people. It is impossible to make such a movie anymore about black people, but it seems to be all right about Greeks. Why?One is through the whole movie waiting for some kind of complication, some kind of conflict, but the clowns on the screen only grow wilder all the time. One didn't expect much, but this is less than expected.   "},{"Title":"THIS is what independent filmmaking has come to?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Too cliched and predictable for Hollywood, too retro and unrealistic for Harlequin. What got to me most was the film's flat-out SEXISM--attention from an attractive man and a few strokes of blusher transforms a neurotic zombie into an emotionally mature, vibrant sex bomb. Is marriage really going to cure Tula's quasi-incestuous dependence on her tyrannical father? What a sick, dysfunctional excuse for romance.  "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Overrated Formulaic Romantic Comedy","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After waiting until the movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding had made over $100 million and was tabbed highest grossing indie flick ever, I begrudgingly entered My Big Fat movie thinking that I'd leave being happily surprised. There was no way that a movie that had this much good word of mouth could be anything but a lovely, endearing film. I was so wrong. I sat and watched a movie in a packed theater at 10 pm on a Friday with a crowd of brainwashed, middle-aged simpletons. Watching in horror as everyone laughed at formulaic plot, unfunny and recycled jokes, and one of the sappiest love stories, I continued in hope for a saving moment. There was none. I will concede that the film had small sparks of wit intertwined with the ethnicity of the script. But in no way was this the movie that I had been hearing about whenever I turned on the TV or that has been praised on Oprah. This film is the perfect example of great timing. Released in a season where there wasn't a single great movie, it hit the right socio-economic group, a ethic group that is large and not talked about in movies, (you're trying to tell me that this couldn't be called My Big Fat Italian Wedding?) and appealed to every woman's (who dragged their significant other along) senses. This movie was cute. Nothing more, and for the critical praise and box office success this movie received, it was a a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"Why didn't I think this was very funny?","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie as I was in the mood for a light hearted easy viewing comedy.  Except I didn't find it that funny.  It made me smile a couple of times rather than laugh out loud.This movie is ok, but it takes character stereotyping onto a new level, and the jokes are incredibly predictable - I could see them coming a mile off. Although I must admit it is probably funnier than 90% of the 'comedy' that we are treated to by the studios.   "},{"Title":"One Big Fat Sleeper Hit","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING (2002) *** Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Michael Constantine, Lainie Kazan, Andrea Martin, Louis Mandylor, Joey Fatone. Charmingly hilarious ethnic comedy that shrewdly captures the one universal truth all families are crazily dysfunctional.  Vardalos (who adapted her one-woman theatrical play) stars as a frumpy, unhappy (and unmarried) daughter to her loving Greek restaurateur parents (Constantine and Kazan, balancing the stereotype to a fault) who want nothing more than for their daughter to be married (to a nice Greek boy) and having a family and nothing else.  When she remakes herself over and takes a few night school computer courses she winds up falling in love with a nice WASPy boy (Corbett) and sets the eponymous event into a whirlwind of highly comical vignettes. Produced by Rita Wilson (herself a devoutly Greek gal) who fell in love with the storyline and her husband Tom Hanks, Vardalos wins the Hollywood lottery in this unprecedented sleeper blockbuster of the year.  "},{"Title":"This movie hit home","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am not Greek but half Italian. When I saw the movie, I just transposed Italian for Greek. It is the same when you are Italian. I grew up in the Northest, and went to Catholic Italian grammar School and High School. My family was from Italy, and when I saw the movie, I cried and said that is so great!!!. Just like my family, (who I love and miss dearly.)The character I liked the best, was Aunt Voula. She reminded me and also looked a bit like my mom. My mom would dance and carry on at all the family gatherings, just like Voula. She was great!!! It made me feel good about my heritage.Thank you so much for this movie!!!God bless "},{"Title":"A film that insults everyone!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen this film on a DVD rented from my local library - whew, so relieved I didn't take my wife to the cinema at 6 times the price!This is the worst example of insulting stereotyping I can remember seeing. The head of a Greek immigrant family living in Chicago who apparently arrived in the US with $8, and who has built up successful businesses is portayed as a lovable moron. All his family are portrayed as lovable morons. His 30 year old still single (!) daughter meets a the school teacher son of a lawyer who along with his wife is portayed as a couple who are incapable of putting two sentences together when they meet their daughter-in-law to be or her family.Chicago is portayed as a sparkling paradise consisting of leafy suburbs and a friendly Greek resto. There are no poor people, no black people, no traffic hold ups, no crime....Compare this film with the British East is East which deals with the same head of immigrant family / cultural clash / children etc. but with real humour, grit and pathos. Greek Wedding wasn't even funny, I can't recall a single funny line. I spent more time watching the clock than the screen as I fought the temptation to go and do something interesting but I stayed with my wife to the bitter end.I'd give East is East 9.5/10. I give the story of the Stereotypos family 0. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rented this one since some people told me that it was good.Terrible. Why is this a comedy even? Hardly any laughs in it at all. Are the following funny bits of a comedy?!?! **SPOILERS**- Greek woman goes ga-ga over a man and stares at him, immobile; pours coffee into wrong cup- Man acts silly (not really funny) bumps into an old lady who promptly knocks him out with her handbag- Greek daddy goes around asking people for a word and then tries to explain how the word has Greek roots- Granny tries to run away at night and was drenched by sprinklers (not only was this not funny, but was absolutely abrupt and breaks the flow of the story - almost like a random insert)etc, etc, etc.  "},{"Title":"A Rock-Bottom Romantic Comedy","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Final Score 2.2 (out of 10)My Big Fat Greek Wedding is staged so much like the season finale of a sitcom that one has a knee-jerk tendency to want to relate it to what might happen on 'Everybody Loves Raymond' if the Barones were Greek. It drags itself through 95 slow, laugh-less, uneventful, fall-asleep-dull minutes with two simple focal points being Greek and getting married. Neither of which it addresses with any sense of originality. Nearly every line in the movie is about being Greek. Mind you, that doesn't bother me at all, I would prefer to see a movie exploring and playing with a culture you rarely get to see in movies. However, this movie drops the ball. Instead of showing us something different it wraps itself in lazy, elementary ethnic stereotypes - all in a parade of running gags that possibly even the Cohen brothers couldn't have squeezed a laugh out of. And like clockwork, you can just see people coming out to support it to say things like That's just how my family is and If you were Greek you'd get it. Ironically, none of that is true. The movie's themes, while specific in the details to it's culture, are universal. And the characters are so broadly drawn that anyone can relate to them and what they do. Aside from the father (a pretty good Michael Constantine) we never really get to know any member of the family beyond their functional role as a stereotype. And that goes for our main character as well Nia Vardalos' Toula. We never get what's motivating her, her boyfriend and insta-fiance (John Corbett) and their relationship. The movie fails as romantic comedy at every signpost. Toula narrates the film and comments on her quirky family's culture in a dull sardonic tone, to the point where when she mulls on how the Greek women are only supposed to get married, cook food and become baby making machines we can't quite tell if she is speaking as a young rebel poking fun at the old traditional ways or (based on the ending) if she is just bitter and jealous that she has yet to get married and pump out an army of babies. But Corbett is her even lamer half. Playing the romantic comedy's vision of the perfect man Corbett's Ian spends pretty much the entire film just standing there, blank faced, nodding and going along with whatever Toula and her family  require him to do. With Ian being a non-Greek you would think there are ripe spots here for some culture-clash comedy. However, we don't get so much as a funny befuddled reactionary shot out of Corbett. Ian has no personality. He's just generic Mr. Handsome and, in a leap in logic to big even in a fairy tale like this, it is still him that tries to win her over. She does nothing but sit at a desk while he walks by out the window and notices. That's our big, fat, lame 'meeting cute' scene. However, the single lamest bit in the script is the opening few minutes where we see Toula looking like an old maid - matted hair, horn-rimmed glasses, big frumpy clothes. This is the insultingly stupid script-writing-seminar way of instantly explaining to us why Toula is 30 years old and still single (it is archaic for the movie to think we need an explanation in the first place). When she suddenly, out of the blue, decides to fix herself up like the geek-tuned-babe in a teen movie she instantly meets the dream guy. It is the dumbed down way this movie lays everything out for it's audience that is more offensive than any ethnic stereotype. I hate to pick on Vardalos. I'm even going to ignore the fact that she can't act. It's her first script and it's a tribute to her that she got her movie produced in the first place. It was a little movie never meant to be such a hit. And it was such a hit, I'm pretty sure, because it just happened to be the independent movie of the moment. Every year at the end of summer, after all the summer blockbusters are played out, that audiences latch onto some little independent film like this as if to make a statement that they are tired of big, hollow, Hollywood action flicks and just want to see some cute little storytelling. This always gets a lot of press as if it's a coming trend and the cycle repeats itself every year. All of this regardless of how bad the movie is. 'The Blair Witch Project' was one such movie. The complete, abysmal disaster of this movie is shared between Vardalos' script which doesn't give anyone a lot to work with and director Joel Zwick. Vardalos sets up a few gags with possibilities and an incredibly talented director like the Cohen brothers might have found a way to make it work. Zwick is a veteran sitcom director so that explains the junk, shoddy look of the movie. His camera work is dark and static. The comedy is cartoonish but not up to the point of zany satire. This one is for housewives who will eat up any movie about marriage and don't demand alot out of a romantic comedy. Everyone else will likely be bored to tears. Alternate Viewing Recommendation Kissing Jessica Stein. Anyone that saw this edgy, smart, forward-thinking romantic comedy will find MBFGW rudimentary by comparison.   "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Bundle of Greek Cliches","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie offered up not one original scene or situation. Shallow and badly written, directed, and acted, it was like a high school play or a shoddy tv movie.  I did not believe for a minute in the love story between the stars.  I saw this after it became a hit and was appalled that so many bought into this manipulative piece of do-do. Not to trash it or anything. "}{"Title":"It's about as far from 8 out of 10 as your average modern Greek is from Socrates.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Must be a lot of Greeks happy to see a Greek Hollywood film, voting high marks.  But I'm sorry.  This is a fat Greek turd.  I'm assuming it's meant to be some kind of 'comedy'.  But there are no jokes.  No plot.  No anything.  It's about as far from 8 out of 10 as your average modern Greek is from Socrates. "},{"Title":"Yawn, yawn, yawn...","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding is only original in the fact that all of the main characters are Greek (duh!), and that these Greeks have different superstitions, which cooks up a lot of problems in the film. But not even that can make this film good. It is a film that will cure all insomniacs of their burden. It's hardly even funny, and really does little to justify its existence. It really is just a sickly sweet romcom (if you can even call it that) for couples who wish to have a happy night in. But in reality, it is just a complete cowpat of a film, with no excitement whatsoever.This movie had all the makings to be great - Tom Hanks at the helm of producing it, an Oscar-nominated screenplay, an original idea - how this screwed up is beyond me. Perhaps because there wasn't much of a cast to go with it. If you want romantic comedy - you've come to the wrong place asking me. I hate romance films, and only saw this because all the people in my class wanted to, over Robin Hood - Prince of Thieves, which I'm sure is better. A forgettable achievement in film-making. 3/10 "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Entertainment for Whole Family","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos, also the screenplay writer) is a single thirty years old Greek woman, living with her parents and brother in a Chicago Greek community. After convincing her father to go to the university, she meets the non-Greek Ian Miller (John Corbertt) and they decide to get married. Her father does not accept the wedding of his daughter with a non-Greek man. The situations in the breast of the Portokalos family, naive most of the times and very funny, make with film a worthwhile entertainment for the whole family. John Corbertt, from Sex & the City, proves that he is a good comedian. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Casamento Grego (Greek Wedding) "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Boring Romantic Comedy","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.Word-of-mouth built this little film into a moneymaking powerhouse.  It's too bad that it's so easily forgettable.This type of film has been done many times before, and better I might add, most notably `Moonstruck', with the added bonus of Cher with big hair.  In the IMDB voting booth, I gave this movie a three because it isn't very original.  MBFGW's problems are listed below.In keeping with the Romantic Comedy Makers Guild, there are quirks-a-plenty for several characters.  Father has an affection for Windex, thinking that it can cure anything.  Grandma, looking like the black plague, is crazy and doesn't recognize her own family until the all-important touching scenes. The problem with this film is that the characterizations don't run deep enough; we're only given surface details with no background whatsoever. The father's windex thing, for example  why does he do it?  What circumstances brought the grandmother to the U.S. and why is she so loony?  Why did Vardalos go through a `frumpy period'?  And could the Millers be any more conveniently WASPy, thus allowing their assured warm-hearted transformation by the end of the film?Some things are outright silly  Why would anyone roast meat on their front lawn?  Family get-togethers are usually held in the back yard for privacy. And who doesn't know what a bundt cake is?  Surely the family are not so insulated that they don't know what a bundt cake is.  She knows it's food, so why would she put a flower pot in the middle of it?  Why does Vardalos suddenly improve her image and go back to school?  And why would the father, obviously protective of his darling Toula, introduce her to a string of obvious losers by inviting them to dinner?All the film's faults might be overlooked if there were an ounce of romance between Vardalos and Corbett.  Vardalos's wide-eyed insecurity and Corbett's stone-faced expressions do nothing to make their romance believable. Corbett mumbles and squints his way through the film, playing the same character he always plays.  This film is about as romantic as a wet dishrag.In one of the film's few bright spots, it's wonderful to see Andrea Martin again.  This versatile, talented actor lights up the screen when she walks in.  Let's hope she gets more high-profile roles such as this one.This is the kind of film that makes a big splash and then everyone forgets about it a few years later (just like `Slingblade'). "},{"Title":"Offensive, atrocious, pathetic","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood has a long tradition of making stereotypes out of ethnic groups. We have seen the Arabs as fanatical terrorists, Hispanics as coke pushing dealers, Asians as gang members, Italians as pasta eating Mafia thugs etc. It wouldn't be long before Greeks had their share. Here Greeks are portrayed as loud, food obsessed, xenophobic idiots! Well as a Greek I found all the over-the-top, stereotypes contained in this film very offensive and not funny at all. I mean the film is supposed to portray a typical Greek family right? Note the word *typical*! How Americans would feel  if a Greek director made a movie portraying a *typical* American family where all the family members were gun toting rednecks living in a trailer park, drinking Jack Daniels and eating beef  jerky, shouting yeeeehawww  all the time? I don't think they would like this..SPOILERS FOLLOWIn this segment I will attempt to debunk some of the stereotypes portrayed in the film.Stereotype one Greeks families are big because Greek women bear many children. Fact Actually Greek families are small and the Greek population in Greece is declining! The average number of children for a family is two and it is not atypical to see couples with only one childStereotype two Greeks are obsessed with food, especially meat! Fact Greek eating habits are some of the healthiest in the world and this is proved by the lower heart disease cases we have compared to other parts of Europe.Stereotype three Greeks are xenophobic who will only marry their `own'. Fact Go to Greece and you will see couples who are of mixed ancestry. I personally know Greek women who have married men from Africa, Greek men who have married women from Northern Europe etcStereotype four. Greeks have Corinthian columns and Greek statues in their houses! Fact Go to any house/apartment/condominium in Greece and you won't find any Corinthian columns or Greek statues. You can only see these in museums, and ruins of ancient temples.I could go on but I am sure that you get the idea. I agree with another poster who commented that probably  Nia Vardalos anger towards her family made her make this movie to get back on them and make a buck or two along the way. How sad indeed.  "},{"Title":"I usually make it through an entire movie","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the first time that I have ever posted a review of a film but I must say that this movie was terrible. I work at a video store so I basically see everything that comes out. I figured that this movie would be watchable because everyone praised it so much. I popped it into my dvd player and watched the first hour, I was completely frustrated out of my mind. The characters were so dull and boring, it was not funny and I was very tired of hearing the word Greek.  I decided to go ahead and kind of slip the fast forward button on through most of the rest of the movie. I would write more about how much I hate this movie but I am nearly late for the lynching at the town hall of all the poor folk who cannot bear to live with themselves after seeing this more than poor film. "},{"Title":"A Big Fat Disappointment","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story of the film is not only boring and not well thought about, the film is also a bad example of directing and it is a comedy without any humour in it. The only funny part is when the girl gets stuck on the phone cord.A Big Fat Disappointment and a disgrace for producer Tom Hanks "},{"Title":"Nia Vardalos does not appeal to me nor the WHACKY Greek antics...which by the way..are the worst attempt at comedy in a movie I have yet to see.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't want to go see a movie with awful looking people, who cant act...and are certainly not comedians... This movie is not funny in any possible or Awkward way...I find it very irritating that this morbid looking Greek would be cast in the leading actress role...while, Rita Wilson on the other hand could have suited the role quite nicely. Nia Vardalos has no appeal what-so-ever and I don't see how anybody but Greeks could find this life appealing to live never-the-less to watch.... "},{"Title":"very overrated","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had looked forward to seeing this movie and was very disappointed.  It was like a generic TV movie.  I saw nothing fresh....the jokes were all lame. I suppose it was so popular because of it's clean humor but I found it boring. 4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Big fat waste of time.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is nothing new and nothing special.  The family could have been the same Jewish or Italian family that's been in THOUSANDS of other films.  The dialogue was flat, the jokes were lame and all of this clashing cultures, old world vs. new world guilt is as old as film itself.  Woody Allen has done the same thing numerous times and much better. "}{"Title":"Amusing, but give me a break","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie months ago, it was simply an indie hit and i thought I can see what the fuss was about.  But since then, the more successful it's gotten, the more I've grown to loathe it.  $200 million+!  Come on, no Julia Roberts movie has ever even made that much!  And I'm sure fans of this movie will say that it deserves to be more successful, because it is about a real woman.  Well for a movie that's supposed to speak to real people, this sure comes across as a silly banal fantasy.  I have to say that it's missing that special ingredient present in the best romantic comedies-romance.Help me out here, what exactly is so great about Toula?  That she works at a travel agency?  That she knows how to use a computer?  That she eats white bread sandwiches?  That she's confident?  Woe is me, if only I could find such a remarkable woman.  Many films are insulting to the audiences' intelligence in that they take a beautiful woman, change her hair and give her glasses, and claim she's ugly.  This movie is just as bad in a different way.  Nia Vardalos does make herself look quite gross at the beginning of the movie.  And after getting the contacs and perm, she's not ugly anymore.  However, she is certainly no Miss Universe and the film's expecting us to believe that John Corbett would take one look at her and instantly be infatuated is ridiculous.  I know beauty is in the eye of the beholder but here the attraction was based purely on outer beauty at first. And let's talk about inner beauty-when do we see that?  Toula seems reasonably nice, but nothing like Gwenyth Paltrow's character in Shallow Hal.  And she's not charming either.  I had a film class TA at school once who liked kinda like Toula, but I thought she was very attractive because of her lovely personality.  I think the only time Toula even shows a hint of personality is when she jokes with Ian about the old lady ass kicking.I found no memorable dialogue or chemistry whatsoever between the leads in this movie (I don't care how Julia Roberts looks, Notting Hill had those in spades) and the whole story line, what there was of one, was dumb.  OK so he sees her once after she's made over, and from then on out he kisses the ground she walks on, doing everything he can to make her happy without even asking for anything in return other than her love (Oh Ian, you came and you gave without taking...bleh).  I'm guessing the reason this movie has been such a colossal hit is because it appeals to the fantasies of all the unattractive middle aged women out there who daydream that if they got a makeover they could have a perfect man idolizing them instead of being stuck with their fat bald husbands who always forget their anniversaries and birthdays.Now maybe I'm kind of missing the point, and the most important thing about this movie is not the romance but the comedy.  Well okay, I thought that was decent.  I laughed at the Windex, and there were other lines and moments which I thought were clever.  But it's nothing special.  The whole movie was basically a sophomoric sitcom (maybe that's a reduntant phrase) with one dimensional stereotypcial characters and contrived silly situations.Not that that can't be entertaining.  I'll reiterate that I liked the movie in the theater.  My comments have been so negative just because I'm so sick of all the attention and praise it's getting.  I'd say that this movie is worth maybe a DVD rental, or better yet just watching on tv if you have nothing better do.  I agree with the person on the message board who said that, given all the challenging, mesmerizing independent fare out there, it's upsetting filmgoers have made My Big Fat Greek Wedding the most successful independent movie of all time by a huge margin.  I think in a fairer world, where effort and talent proportionately yielded box office, this movie would have made the one making $24 million (still a huge profit off of a $3 million budget) and Memento and Christopher Nolan would be reaping the benefits of a $200 million gross.          "},{"Title":"Predictable.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was no plot, the jokes weren't funny, the characters were unlikeable, and I didn't even learn anything about Greek culture (as I was hoping to) by watching this snoozefest. This movie was so dull, I had to keep myself entertained by looking for product placements. (I spotted a UPS truck, Miller Lite beer, and a lot of Windex.)It's almost always a good sign when a film intended for adults has a PG or G rating (it usually means the writers aren't resorting to falling back on good old, reliable sex humor), but My Big Fat Greek Wedding was an exception. The audience I was with found the phrase I have three testicles absolutely hilarious; for a PG film, the profanity is excessive. And, as in all films, the couple has to have sex before they get married. The sex, at least, is implicit; the couple are first making out in a car (a scene that goes on way too long), they then make out in the boyfriend's apartment (the girl literally jumps on him, which was supposed to funny), and then, of course, they end up in bed together. Finally, they get married. (These values are pretty typical for Hollywood, of course, but I couldn't help but wonder what the kids sitting in front of me were learning by watching this.)I might have been able to put up with all of this if the story was any good, but it wasn't; it was just plain predictable. The main character, Toula, spots a good-looking guy at the beginning, they date throughout the course of the movie, and they marry at the end. The closest thing to a conflict is the father's desire to have Toula marry another Greek, but this is barely touched on.This movie simply wasn't entertaining; and it wasn't even educational. Come to think of it, the only thing I got out of it was a strange desire to buy Windex. "},{"Title":"Typically bad, American-movie fare.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING (if that's possible)My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a big, fat American-movie mess.  It is a live-action, bad joke and, like any bad joke, it is mean-spirited and not funny.  It wants you to believe it has a big heart, it doesn't.  I have a part-time job in a small store selling movies, and I am an advocate for small titles, the under-dogs of the industry.  They are where you find your best friends, your most enduring memories.  They represent what movie-making can and should be.  I have always believed that when the masses rally in favor of anything, it is time to stay far, far away.   I should have adhered to my belief.Nia Vardalos, the writer and star of this project, seems to harbor a genuine ill will towards every member of her family, and this movie has allowed her to vent her anger and make a buck or two in the process. I'm surprised that no one from the Greek community has stepped forward to voice their outrage at the portrayal of all the Greek characters in this film, including its leading lady, as loud, stupid, self-centered, inconsiderate, manipulative, purveyors of extremely bad taste.These are not well-drawn characters telling a smart little story.  Toula sees Ian, Ian sees Toula, she gives herself a drastic makeover (which no one notices), enrolls in college, (you think because Ian is there, but no), becomes a computer wiz, leaves her father's business (who knew it would be that easy?), takes over her aunt's travel agency where she is instantly gregarious (once again, who knew?), and she gets to sit at the beautiful-girl table at college (all she had to do was ask, or the popular girls only had to age 20 years and get some manners). Toula goes from being one of the most unattractive women I've seen on the screen in a long time, to being one of the most unattractive made-up, made-over women I've seen on the screen in a long time.  Early in the film, Ian says to his friend, Mike, that all the women Mike has been setting him up with `look alike', and it's a good thing Nia gives us this nugget, or we wouldn't know what the basis for their relationship was.  It's Nia doesn't look like anyone else, and that's it, and that's all.  The development of their relationship is Toula talking about her family, Toula making stupid faces at Ian, and Toula and Ian making out in Ian's car and, eventually, his apartment. And who knew becoming Greek Orthodox was as simple as a wading pool; some short, shorts; and a horny, big-haired Greek girl rubbing you down with oil. The bundt-cake bit was embarrassingly bad.  Please!!!  I not only know baklava; I can spell and pronounce it.  If Ian's squeamish, WASPy, priggish parents had also brought donuts, Toula's mother would have had a place to put her herb garden.  And Ian seems like a nice guy, so what's with the empty church on his side and the packed pews on Toula's side?  Things are only funny or sad, Nia (and Rita), if they make sense.  You could watch Monsoon Wedding for a lesson.This movie is about over-the-top, offensive, stereotypes.  It's about the flower-children of the Mediterranean showing everyone else the way with Oozo and Opa.  It's about a family that is as loveless as any I've ever seen portrayed.  You've been warned.  "},{"Title":"We can ask ourselves Canadian, American or Greek?","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is like Canadian and American culture trying to combine with or fit in with Greek heritage and culture, even though the title can lead one to believe it's Greek. It's nothing special, but it's okay. There is some good and some bad. It is another romantic comedy, although to be fair this one has some originality.The story is predictable. A woman named Toula is facing a crisis of existence. She feels like she is a loser and she is pressed by her family to do something out of her life. Her father, very proud of Greek culture, wants her to marry a Greek and make Greek babies. Just when she thinks she'll never be able to be happy, her life takes another course. She changes her visual, uses make-up, gets a different kind of job and meets a non-Greek named Ian Miller and soon they fall in love. Their love only gets stronger with time, however her father doesn't accept their romance very well because the guy isn't Greek, although he gets over that in the ending - which, by the way, is a happy one.It's one of those movies good enough... for a one-time viewing. Otherwise it ain't much more than that, although I'd probably recommend it for greeks... who enjoy romantic comedies and for greeks... who still feel proud of their nationality and culture (if that's still possible, considering their current situation of crisis). "},{"Title":"God, I Wish Women Were Not This Easy","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember really enjoying this movie, before I grew up and realized what was wrong with it.This could have been a very different kind of movie. The lead woman could have remained rather frumpish and avoided the makeover scenes swiftly becoming requisite to any romantic comedy worth its salt.The lead woman could have changed as she did but avoided the too-easy romantic comedy formula of changing FOR a man. She might have then dated around a while and learned how to enjoy herself again, or else she might have explored her sexuality with both men and women.That would have been quite the welcome shock.Instead, Tula chooses to change herself precisely to win the affections of one man. When this happens in real life, the women usually realize within anywhere from one month to fifteen years that the man is cheating on her behind her back. Instead, in this movie--which apparently takes place in fantasy land, in which patriarchy will vanish simply via the power of love--Tula and her husband seem very much in love. Normally I might say, more power to them--except that the precedent this sets for the young and impressionable girls who might stumble across this film on their way to a better, edgier one is awful.People need to learn to take responsibility for the consequences of their actions--even if they are as well-meaning or possibly simply as self-obsessed as these folks are. "},{"Title":"Feature Length Stand-Up Skit","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding plays out like a 15-minute stand-up comedy routine stretched over a 90-minute running time.Nia Vardalos takes aim at her big, Greek family, and the film is full of fairly stale material about how overbearing they are, how hairy they are, how loud they are, and how much they like to eat. Any number of Woody Allen films have already covered this terrain, but I guess there's always room for one more. To her credit, Vardalos is a pleasant actress and she has a winning quality to her that makes the film painless to sit through.She received an Academy Award nomination for her original screenplay.Grade B "},{"Title":"This is the ultimate date film--so why is it's overall rating 6.7?","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've seen MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING twice, so I am pretty sure about what I saw...yet for the life of me, it's overall rating is a relatively paltry 6.7 (as of 8/09). Considering how much money this film made and how well-crafted it was, this score just seems way too low---especially since this is the ultimate date film--there simply is no better.What I liked about the film in particular is that it has appeal to both men and women and this cannot be said of some chick flicks. Sure, it has romance and kissing and the like, but it also is funny, warm and enjoyable on many levels. Heck, I could even see older kids enjoying the film--whether or not they are Greek.The film consists of a wonderful ensemble cast. While there are some famous actors in the film (such as John Constantine, Lanie Kazan and Andrea Martin), these are not necessarily household names and the rest of the cast are pretty much unknowns. This is NOT a problem, as it increases the believability of the film and these unknowns all proved they could really act--and have no reason to stay unknown for long.Considering that my review is coming years after the film was released and there are already a ton of other reviews, I won't bother to beat a dead horse and discuss the plot. The bottom line is that this is a brilliant film. On one hand, it all seems so simple and slight, but on the other the film really delivers in every possible way. So many funny and wonderful moments--be sure to have a few Kleenex when you watch this sweet film. "},{"Title":"For me this is the best romantic comedy since pretty woman and four weddings and a funeral.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This lovely film carries a lot within it like love, family, joy and commitment.The fact that the film is simple doesn't mean it is dull and look at the total gross of it, it was a total of 241 million dollars can you believe it? Hmmmm, I think you'd better.Aside from being funny as hell this film is focusing on other things like other majorities in the US including their habits, cultures and look at that strong bound of the Greek society which should be an idol for us to follow in our own lives.Nia Vardalos is a lovely girl; I don't know if she has to continue acting but she definitely shouldn't give up her beautiful talent as a screen writer, she is absolutely genius.8/10 "},{"Title":"Never ever claim that Greeks and Turks are very different!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am half-Turkish myself and had a good laugh when I saw that some Turkish traits and traditions also exist in Greece. Just a few examples- Greeks/Turks are something better than the rest of the world- Dad is always right, but Mom knows how to persuade him (and he won't even notice that he has been persuaded)- Don't let your daughter date an outsider, especially if he is an infidel.- If she does, find her a Greek/Turkish husband, and never mind her protests- An average family clan has some 100 members- A not so big fat wedding may well take place with 200 guests.Okay, there are differences, especially concerning a Muslim lifestyle, but this might not be funny. "},{"Title":"Amusing But Extremely Slight","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is a lot to like about MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING, a well-made romantic comedy that presents the story of Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos), a young Chicago woman of Greek ethnicity who must overcome family opposition when she decides to marry an upscale yuppie WASP. The cast is expert; there are quite a few belly-laughs and chuckles aplenty; and the script is witty and plays with stereotypes without ever descending to mean-spiritedness. But perhaps the single most likable thing about Greek WEDDING is the fact that the romantic leads look like real people instead of the Ken and Barbie actors so typically found in this sort of romantic comedy. That is indeed a real joy, and I suspect it is at the heart of what has drawn so many to the film.I do indeed indeed recommend MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING. But I also offer a slight caution unless you are a die-hard romantic comedy fan, you might do better to rent the film before you actually go to the expense of purchasing it. It is expertly done; it is charming; and I certainly look forward to seeing more from Nia Vardalos in the future. But all that said, I found Greek WEDDING extremely slight, and do not think I will revisit it in the future. I found it enjoyable for an evening, but nothing more. The DVD package, by the way, is as slight as the film. There is extremely little in the way of bonus material, and if your decision re VHS vs. DVD rests on bonus material I would suggest you purchase the VHS; you will miss nothing in terms of extras.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) **","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't know what all the fuss was about for this rather typically themed family film. It's a dime a dozen story, in this case about leading lady Nia Vardalos' true-life Greek family and all their supposed eccentricities. Big Deal. There is nothing out of the ordinary here, precious little that's funny, and anyone out there with a large family of their own will undoubtedly have just as many, if not more, zany characters in their personal tree on which to base a much funnier full-length feature. I mean, what makes Vardalos so special? Just because she actually took the time to sit down and write about it? Jeez -- I could clean up in that business with my own family stories and make a billion dollars! You got a couple of hours...? One solace to this viewer was that Vardalos never came even close to the Oscar she was so inexplicably nominated for. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Nothing big or fat about this wedding. Seriously.","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't even know why I'm wasting my time writing this review. The movie was just incredibly weak. There is nothing to worry about from the moment this film begins. If there is a conflict, a worry, a slight problem, anything that would make you go Oh, man, how are they gonna get through this one?, it is solved within the next three minutes. Yeah, no conflict whatsoever. And you will never see a more whipped boyfriend/husband in your life. I swear, Nia Vardalos could have asked him to murder his entire family and he would have done so with the sweetest smile. Plus, the BIG FAT Greek wedding that we were promised consists of about a dozen or so people in attendance. Kind of felt like false advertising. You may think that this is just a review from a dude who doesn't get it, but I am a very big fan of films and am rarely, if ever, biased towards any type of film, even if it is a chick flick, but watching this I swear I had MY period. Proceed with caution. "},{"Title":"fantasy land","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  treacly! I imagine this movie is most popular among mousy, average-looking or large women who harbor secret fantasies that they can find a an instantly pu**y--whipped man without moving from their comfort zone, or even leaving their desk. Dream on ladies. In order to have a life you have to overcome your complacency not deny it.John Corbett can turn in his genitalia and any remaining testosterone after this. In this role as in all his recent work, his only job is to be cheerful, mindless and unresistant to each new conflict. Corbett is tracking towards a career on the Lifetime network, playing the sole alpha male in the female protagonists world, with an unflagging ability to suppress his own views and blow sunshine up her a**.As Tulia, Nia Verdalos portrays the heroine of her own creaky, romance-novel inspired day-dream.On top of all of the movies other problems, the whole thing is played as broadly as a pie fight. "},{"Title":"Chick flick","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I finally ran out of luck and rented this movie tonight for my wife to watch. Unfortunately, it is the start of the rainy season here in Japan and I was trapped indoors and made to watch this thing. I think my biggest complaint about My Big Fat Greek Wedding is that there was no real conflict in this movie. Yes, there was the almost cliché culture clash between Greek and Western societies. But there was nothing outstanding to hold my attention; i.e., an old boyfriend or girlfriend in the wings to make the couple want draw closer together.I do not understand why this film got so many rave reviews and was spun off into a U.S. TV show (Is it still on tthe air back in the states?)Would I recommend this film to anyone? Not in three lifetimes!!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious once but for me, didn't stand up to multiple viewings.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What makes this comedy so good, isn't the two leads frankly, it's the enseble cast who were just delightful. When I originally saw this, in the theatre, I laughed my head off. It's a very funny movie and I can understand why it became a surprise hit.But that said, it was a bit overrated(making a TV SHOW OUT OF IT? WHY????)That was taking it a bit far. This movie is great the first time around. It is genuinely funny and it'll leave you feeling good. But it didn't hold up to repeated viewings for me. I have tried to watch it again since and been a bit bored. I do think it deserved all the good things said about it. There are some absolutely great moments of comedy in it. But it became to much of a good thing with the TV show and all. I'd give this a solid 7 of 10 and say it's a must see once. "},{"Title":"Joining the Junta....","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On a basic level this can be classified as what can be called a romantic-comedy; spinster in a Greek family finding love from outside her own. However, if one looks deeper I found much of this movie repulsive. Here we have a patriarchal immigrant family settled in the States fleeing from persecution who themselves keep that persecution going within their own family hierarchy. Their unwed 30 year old daughter is starved of sex and freedom. Along comes this weakish,waspish wimpish male who becomes so besotted with her that he is forced, if he wants to marry her, to sacrifice his own freedom.In other words become part of the clan and submit to its dictates otherwise you cannot marry her. And what a clan the are. Loud, vulgar,crude and uncouth.They are safe in the sanctity of a dreadful dictatorship. Several scenes are disturbing including the way the wimp and his parents are bullied into the Greek family rituals; the disgraceful way the wimp is shown half naked submitting to a baptism he does not believe in; the sinister way the woman's brother threatens the wimp to conform; and then at the conclusion how the clan has so manipulated the situation to have total control of the wimp in where and how he lives. I suppose this kind of dictatorship is not only in some Greek families but is the same in many other immigrant families such as Indian, Jewish, Italian, Chinese, Thai and so on. I feel sorry for any offspring in such a situation who is gay,or wants to remain unwed, or simply has enough character to refuse to bow to the Patriarchy.   "},{"Title":"A THING CONTRIVED WITH BORING SCENE","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't like this movie from very beginning, the plot, the photography, the setting, the dialogue, all are not good enough to attract me. i don't know why it is rating so high on IMDB, in my eyes at most 2 out of 5. The plot is so contrived and predicable that make you feel so deceived by the director, and meanwhile you don't know what the director really want to say, just to make a film with nonsense. it is hyped a classic comedy,some scenes you can see that actor really want to be humor, but you just don't want to laugh for nothing at all worthy of laugh. i am really disappointed. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Oversold TV Movie","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was NOTHING in this film I haven't seen a million times (with the exception of one joke by the brilliant Andrea Martin).  The script was so lame it could have been written by stapling together pages of mad libs (insert ethnic group here).  On the other hand there was nothing offensive about this film.  It's desire to please was genuine.  The charm of one-hit-wonder Nia Vardalos preening for the camera--Oh my gosh, I'm in a real movie--is undeniable.If you miss this film, though, don't worry.  You'll see it a million more times--or until every ethnic group gets its shot.  Aunt Mbunga *click click* come meet my Hottentot Hottie--*click* but don't tell Dad!.  Um, yeah, right. "},{"Title":"Big fat greek piece of crap","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh my god. This movie sucks ass. Jeez, I can't believe people liked this. What a dissapointment. I thought I was seeing one of the best ethnic movies since The Producers (we'll talk later). I can't believe she was nominated for an oscar. Crap, crap, crap. "},{"Title":"WHAT WAS THE BIG DEAL???","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I refused to go see this movie in the theater, I refused to rent it and I finally succumbed to watching it on cable and I have to now say, WHAT WAS ALL THE HYPE ABOUT. This movie was not in the least bit funny, AT ALL. I think the way that the family was reacting was completely over exxagerated. People never want to admit that this wasn't a regular run of the mill indie project. But one that was backed by Tom Hank's wife. I really dont see why the budget for this thing went over a million dollars. The sets are pretty simple and the actors that they have I'm sure did not command a ton of money. I won't call the movie terrible, but for the amount of money that it made, let me just say that that was just ridiculous. Im glad when it came to the TV series people finally came back to their sense and made it go away after one season.10 thumbs down for this stinker. "}{"Title":"While it's a nice array of characters, it lacks a conflict","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was totally enjoyable, with lots of exaggerated family members, and funny anecdotes. It would have made a perfectly good evening of standup comedy, but as a movie, it lacks any kind of conflict. Its all goes smoothly. Too smoothly.I can see why it appealed to such a large audience, and again, I admit to having enjoyed it, but when it ended I felt nothing. It's as forgettable as it is enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated movies of 2002","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Rating ** out of ****.I MBFGW because it got good reviews and the audience raved about it. When I saw it I was like  Whats the big deal about. This movie was barely funny at all. Nia Vardalos was nominated for a golden globe but I found her annoying.John Corbett doesnt do as well here as he did in Sex and The City. The family is pretty annoying. Michael Constantine is one of the only bright spots in the movie, he gives the most entertaining performance in the movie.The movie had a funny scene with the grooms family at the party but other than that most attempted humorous moments were lame. I cant believe this got a nomination for Original Screenplay. Signs and Punch Drunk Love were more original and better written. Although, this year was not a great for Original Screenplays. This movie is stupid, although most romantic comedies are anyway.  "},{"Title":"So-So Chick Flick","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the most over rated chick flicks I have seen. After all the hoopla I was disappointed. The movie has no plot. The title gives it all away. Handsome prince meets frog and they get married but frog doesn't turn into a beautiful princess. And that is what is so unreal about the story.Tula, played by Nia Vardalos, is as butt ugly as they get and there is and there is nothing that can change that. Why would a handsome John Corbett even look at her much less date her? He is educated, she is not. They have nothing in common. She is about as sexy as a wet noodle. In fact the entire cast except for him is a bunch of fat ugly people. It is an insult to the Greek people because it leaves the impression with viewers that most if not all Greeks are fat and ugly, which is not true.The story is so predictable. There are no surprises. Perhaps the movie is only a fairy tale for fat ugly women and that is that in their dreams they will meet and marry a handsome prince and live happily ever after.This is a feel good movie and viewers will feel good after watching it.  That is about all that can be said for it. "},{"Title":"Half of a good movie","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great movie... until it comes to a crashing halt about halfway through or so when Ian asks Toula to marry him. Then all the dramatic tension, surprise, and inventiveness are gone. The big confrontation between Ian and Toula's father is entirely tame. There's nothing in the second half but a lot of noise, predictable events, and a mushy ending. And I didn't find the rudeness towards Ian's parents or the adoption by Ian of all things Greek particularly appealing, either.(While the plot points are quite different, the culture clash in Bend It Like Beckham is carried through to the very end, to very good effect. But that movie had soccer to sustain the plot. Unfortunately, MBFGW has nothing at all.)I give the first half 5 stars out of five, and the second half maybe 2.5. "},{"Title":"Isn't nearly as wonderful as it was hyped up to be","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) D Joel Zwick. Nia Vardalos, John Corbett, Lainie Kazan, Michael Constantine, Gia Carides, Joey Fatone, Ian Gomez. A young Greek woman falls in love with a non-Greek man and spends the next few months trying to get her family to accept him, especially after they announce their upcoming marriage. Cute and humorous, although this film isn't nearly as wonderful as it was hyped up to be. The biggest independent box-office hit ever, it was based on a one-woman show by star Vardalos and later made into a disastrous short-lived sitcom. RATING 6 out of 10. Rated PG for sexuality and language.  "},{"Title":"A Great Greek Feast.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great little gem of a movie that really puts a smile on your face with it's winning attitude and quirky performances.  Nia Vardalos and John Corbett are perfect together, and Andrea Martin is great as the wacky relative with advice to spare.  I heard a lot about this film when it was in the theater but I did not give it a try.I now know why it deserves the praise it gets.I hope they make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"MY BIG FAT COMMENT","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was an exceptional Romantic Comedy.  This had spunk, a storyline, and subtle jokes.This Movie was a great movie and I saw it 2 in theatres and now own it on DVD. Go see it and take the family. I never got to see the show on TV but heard it was good.Movies I would reccomendLord of the Rings The Fellowship, The Lord of the Ringsthe Two Towers, How to Deal, Legally Blond 2, Pirates of the CArribean, League Of Extraordinary Gentlemen, X-Men2, Finding Nemo, How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDINGMovies I would not reccomend The Hulk, Bringing Down the House  "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Born in brought up in the states and coming from and Indian background, which is surprisingly quite similar to the Greek life, I could really relate to this movie.  The characters and seemingly strange customs of Greek life were very authentic and true.  This is one of those must-sees if you/parents/grandparents are immigrants to the US. "},{"Title":"IF YOU CAN'T LAUGH AT THIS...CHECK YOUR PULSE!!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  a++++ all the way!!!! hysterical, true movie about large families... michael constandine is great!!! a laugh a minute!!!!! watch it with someone you love! "},{"Title":"It could have been different...","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers ahead...A tremendously hyped movie with wooden acting. It is obvious that the lead character Toula was not a seasoned professional actress. Several times during this movie I thought I was watching a TV sitcom. The stage production pedigree is rather easy to see. The direction was fragmented and the jokes became tired very quickly. Indeed the whole thing reminded me of some sort of student film makers end of term project. This movie could quite easily have been called My Big Fat Ethnic Stereotype Wedding - insert whichever stereotype you desire. Nothing special about Greek families.I was surprised to see Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks mentioned on the credits as producers. Knowing that Rita Wilson is half-Greek obviously gave a lot of legitimacy. Without Hanks and Wilson's involvement this movie could not have been made.Nothing special. 3/10. "}{"Title":"Only two points made in this movie","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Point one, you're never too old to fall in love, and looks dont matter. Point two, dont marry into a greek family if your paranoid or claustrophobic.  This movie had its funny moments at time, but all in all, it was really pointless and annoying.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good, fun movie, but...","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard so much about that movie. Perhaps I was expecting too much. It does have an interesting plot, and interesting characters. I did laugh more than once. But once the film is over, you find yourself asking for more. The plot could have been more intricate. The main characters - Toula and Ian - could have had a more complex relationship. There could have been ups and downs. Surprises.Have this story re-written without any Hollywood-inspired mediocrity, and you have yourself a classic. "},{"Title":"Don't understand what the fuss was about","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found it unfunny, annoying, frustrating, and something I hope isn't typical.What's fun about a story of 2 humans who fall in love but is harrassed and condemned by family for not being born into the same culture? What's funny about an old man from Greece who comes to a new land to prosper and can only obsess about why his people are better than the people of this new land?And this movie isn't an original piece of work.  There was a movie made years before about a chinese woman and an american man.  Plot was almost exactly parallel.  Forgot the name of it.What I did like was that the leading lady wasn't paper-thin. "},{"Title":"I DONT GET IT","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I seriously dont get this film.  How in the world did this do so well?  I did not listen to anyone who told me they were so excited by all of the hype and were really dissappointed by it when they viewed it.  I did not see it in the movies, however I did pay to view it on Direct TV, I should have picked another one.  I admit this is by far not my favorite type of movie, but I thought I would just sit and at least be mildly entertained by it.  All I could think was when are the funny parts coming up?  It didn't really even have an interesting storyline, or one at all for that matter that went beyond the title.  I just dont get the success at all, even if it was running on the hype factor.  Not really funny, not that cute, even John Corbett could not save it.   "},{"Title":"Deflated","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a bit of a disappointment. I enjoy romantic comedies but I really thought this was supposed to be funny from everything I had heard about it.It was very sweet and it's great to see Nia Vardalos do well, but I cant believe it broke so many records for box office takings. The only reason must be that so many people never hear about the good small independent films that have covered this area well before.Its hard to believe the comments people have made about the plain girl finally getting the man. Nia is a very beautiful lady. We can all look frumpy, and one good thing the movie showed was that a very beautiful woman can look frumpy too!(Well maybe except for Michelle Pfeiffer in Frankie and Johnny! It seems impossible for Michelle Pfeiffer to look bad even when she tries.)Worthwhile seeing when it comes out on TV, but dont rush to the video store. "},{"Title":"A Little Disappointed","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was a little disappointed in this film.  I had heard so many people say that is was SO FUNNY.   I did not find it funny.  However, I suppose it is better than many films.   And why do so many comment on Nia Vardalos' looks?  I think she is attractive. "},{"Title":"A few chuckles, that's about it.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like ethnic comedies, especially ones about weddings, there are two movies that are much, much better than My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  They are Monsoon Wedding and Bend It Like Beckham. They both have much more depth and are also a lot funnier. "},{"Title":"Could live without it.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Note that I am a Helen and did understand all those minor points some of the foreign viewers may have missed.  I was 100% negative when i was told to go watch this movie. My housemate watched it 3 times at the cinema and I only watched it as a rent dvd, which i didnt even rent. friend's treat.  Well a few things about the movie, it does get on people's nerves at first with Toula saying all kinds of stupid things (and in the end if someone does not like where they are from i suppose they can just as easily migrate -just as a friend of mine did cause he was embarrased to be a Helen). On the other hand, the movie delivers some funny momments, the interest is entirely stolen by Toula's father who really plays 100% what it would be expected from him. Note (minor spoiler) the scene where the american parents go over to meet the hellenic family for the first time and they bring along a cake. I suppose it is the funniest moment of the movie, specially if you can understand hellenic.well all in all i am giving this movie a 5. note this is the second time i am rating it, the first time i gave it a 2. I still believe there will be many who will enjoy this movie more than i did, specially people who are not preoccupied with the love for the country. "},{"Title":"or...By Big Fat Boring Movie","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The worst thing about this movie, among a lot of bad things, is the fact that you could have replaced the word Greek with any ethnicity or religion in the known universe and had the exact same movie.  I don't think this was an accident.  This isn't about being Greek, or getting married, it's about people seeing themselves, their own lives, on a big screen.That isn't a bad thing.  But is it art?  Is it good film making?  Not by a long shot.  This is nothing more than a product, like those old Madlibs where you could fill in the blanks dozens of different ways and still have a funny story.Yes, it's a nice movie, and nobody dies, or gets blown up or kidnapped and there's nothing to be afraid of.  But that doesn't mean it's not boring as hell.  The performances are flat, the dialogue is generic, and it's not even filmed in Chicago like they claim.  On a scale of 1 to 10 I'd be hard pressed to give it a 4.  "},{"Title":"What's the fuss???","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I truly like Michael Constantine. His character was sooooooooooo predictable.I felt the overall movie was like pasta you cooked an hour too long- very limp.  It was amusing at times, but it was in my feeling overrated.Take out Constantine's Greek references and family hugging and kissing and the movie would be cut to a reasonable 30 minutes.John Corbett did a great job, which I think carried the movie. Too bad because I think he isn't in the TV sequel.  "}{"Title":"What was all the fuss about?","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll make this short. This was an average movie at best. It was a simple story with no demanding acting required. The only thing more unbelievable than the two stars getting together was the pervasive use of stereotyping to drive the comedic element of the plot. Almost as offensive as the Blacksploitation movies of the 1970s, I felt like screaming out as I was watching this movie I get it, guys, those misogynist, food-loving, quirky Greeks are so different than us stuck-up, snobbish WASPs! Also, how many times do we have to be told the Windex joke? It was funny at first, but it got old quickly and that was the only original humor in the movie. To say that this was one of the greatest Romantic Comedies of all time is an insult to movies like Sleepless in Seattle and Meet the Parents. This movie, contrary to the views of another reviewer, did not make me laugh, did not make me cry, and the only thing it made me feel was upset for buying into the hype surrounding this film. I couldn't recommend this movie under any circumstances unless one wanted to see a film that didn't require any thought or intelligence. This is the definition of Chick Flick... boyfriends of the world, beware! "},{"Title":"Very elementary","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is exactly what I expected it to be, an emabarrassingly predictable movie by new comer her shows her extremely limited skills as a writer.At best this movie may make you snicker once or twice. But truthfully, how many times can you laugh at the same jokes repeated over and over again. I think Nia Vardalos gave us her all in this one, but, guess what, all her best really ain't that great. Expect anything else she does to always harken back to this same tired storeyline before she finally disappears after riding her 15 minutes (which is about 14 minutes longer than she should have had). "},{"Title":"Big, fat extended Greek family makes us laugh!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of those rare films that is actually better even than the hype. Much better. We saw it last night, on DVD, invited all the neighbors, and the whole 90 minutes of actual movie never quit pushing the laugh button.  This is the kind of film where laughs come naturally because we are so entertained by the characters and the situations. Having a PG rating makes it just that much better.As he often does, critic Ebert has written a very accurate and complete review. Nia Vardalos, who stars as Toulos, is also the writer, and it is based on a play she wrote and was noticed by Mrs Tom Hanks, another Greek. John Corbett (of Northern Exposure fame) plays Ian who becomes her love interest. Lainie Kazan, former singer and one of my favorites, plays the mother.  The whole film explores their meeting and deciding to marry, which is a very straight forward story, but all the entertainment stems from the characters in the large extended family. The father who believes Windex will cure anything. The aunt who tells of the lump on her neck, and surgery revealed some teeth and some spine bones, her undeveloped twin!The DVD picture is very good, and even though the sound is Dolby 5.1, there isn't much in the surround channels. The extras are disappointing, no trailer, no making of special. There is a selectable commentary that I didn't listen to.Overall one of the best and most entertaining movies to come out recently, now I want to buy the DVD so I can re-watch it periodically. There's so much in the movie that it will be entertaining upon many repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Toronto Illinois","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was amazed at the number of negative comments posted. This is a funny, wholesome, clever and very good movie that touches the heart, the soul and the funny bone. But why is it set in Chicago but (ssssh!!) shot in Toronto. It's based on the real story of a Greek Canadian. The culture clash that forms the basis of the story is very familiar in Toronto with its huge multi cultural population. One of those large ethnic groups is Greek. Indeed much of the picture takes place on The Danforth which is the main street of the Greek community. The movie was a hit. Would it have been any less a hit had it been set in Toronto rather than Chicago? "},{"Title":"Great Family movie","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With all the violence,sex,and foul language movies that are out these past few years,it was totally refreshing to see a movie that had none of that in its entirity.Maybe because I am of Greek descent,it makes me partial to loving this movie,as I do,but I know many who are not of the Greek persuasion that have enjoyed it as much as myself.It brought back many fond memories of my growing up in such a manner;as,getting permission from my parents to date,having my husband to be, ask for my hand in marriage from my Dad,covering all the furniture with plastic,(God forbid something should spill on it)the loudnormal tone for Greeks to speaktalking,the teasing brothers,the Greek artifacts on the lawn,in the house,and sometimes on the family cars!!The family helping eachother out,whether it be in their business,or daily life,when ever needed....the closeness of the family,and the joy celebrating holidays,birthdays,baptisms,etc.This is,to me,the way ALL families should be.These memories make me one of the richest individuals on this earth,and it didn't cost my family one thin dime for me to enherit it.Thanks for reminding me of my precious upbringing. "},{"Title":"Positively subversive.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is positively subversive. Director Joel Zwick and star-writer Nia Vardalos have taken a line from earlier innovators in the Cinema of Radicalism, and carefully disguised this movie's revolutionary agenda in traditional forms.  Here we have a film that dresses itself in the feel-good qualities of Leave it to Beaver, and in the reassuring tones of screwball comedy.  Its locale glides effortlessly from suburbia, to the cosmopolitan settings of urban Chicago.  All is subtly immersed in a Midwestern, heartland ethos.Yet, as the film progresses, we find ourselves swept into a theme of radicalism.  One must admire the sheer nerve of Zwick and Vardalos, suggesting that Greek Orthodox theology might be wedded to the Protestant canons.  Martin Luther would spin in his grave.  Why, if America were to adopt the radical line of thought promoted here, a Shinto-Quaker Alliance groom might take a bride from an Islamic Unitarian background without anyone raising an eyebrow.And the women!  No doubt Ms. Vardalos was the main perpetrator here. In the innocent realms of a storefront travel agency the heroine is depicted as transforming from a meek woman-trampled-on-the-pedestal into an aggressive sexual predator.  That this feminist standard is raised by a woman whose roots lie perilously close to the woman-hating, reactionary Fundamentalist Judao-Islamic regimes of the Middle East is all the more telling.While one must admire the artistic courage displayed by Zwick and Vardalos, one must also question the Marxian Fundamentalist attitude as shown in the scenes depicting ritual immersion, and the spiritual surrender to ouzo.  Also, the movie ends without answering that primal question What of the children?  Even great films can go too far.But these are minor flaws.  The film's makers have taken the form of the Hollywood screwball comedy, and infused it with political and societal connotations too deep to mention.  "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A truly wonderful, funny movie. It was laugh-out-loud FUNNY! My wife and I left the theater amazed that someone was still making a film like this. We don't usually buy DVD's, but we'll be first in line to grab this one when it becomes available! See this movie AT the movies while you can!!! "},{"Title":"funny movie, making you feel good","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a nice and funny movie. You can just sit down and enjoy. All the characters are well chosen and the story is nice and not too deep. There's just a good feeling after having watched the movie, no matter in which mood you started. I enjoyed it very much. "},{"Title":"No famous actors, but great movie","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had this movie a long time before I saw it - actually I did not want to do that (i thought it is another bulls..t), but one evening when I was bored to death I decided to do so. Oh man, I haven't laughed that much for a long time! This film is terrific even if you watch it alone (which is very rare for comedies). I highly recommend it - one of my favourite comedies. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood Strikes Back","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Horrible, horrible movie. Granted there are some funny scenes but in the end this is cliché at it's worst. There is obviously a book somewhere called Make-A -Movie-By-Numbers.We've been thankfully seeing somewhat of a renaissance in Independent Movie making of late but this movie marks the fight back from Hollywood. They have obviously planted someone out there to make movies under the independent movie label but in reality the movies contain all the usual Hollywood crap. Another reviewer asks `Why don't other independent films receive the patience accorded to My Big Fat Greek Wedding?'. Simple, this isn't an Independent movie, at least not in the quality sense. I guarantee you that the reason this movie made so much money is because of the same people who made Runaway Bride gross $150m. or think Coyote Ugly doesn't melt your brain.$200m. How can this waste of a movie make that kind of money? I am so happy to relate that not one cent of my hard earned cash went to this.Here look, I'll save you the time and money 1. Ugly Greek Girl stuck under the thumb of parents. 2. Is allowed to go to college and puts on makeup and suddenly becomes much more attractive. 3. Gets to sit with the cool blonde girls like she has wanted since Junior High. 4. Meets perfect man. 5. Greek parents disapprove. 6. Eventually accept him. 7. His parents are stiff protestant types and find the whole Greek thing hard to understand. 8. Cue standard scene of merriment and dancing by ethnic group to show how easy going they are (also applies to all movies with Irish or Indian people). 9. She is allowed to grow but still holds some respect for aspects of her culture. 10. Big wedding happens. 11. His stiff parents learn to dance and loosen up like the ethnic group. 12. Everyone is happy. The world is a beautiful place. (the first time we see his parents I turned to my gf and bet her that by the end of the movie they would be dancing and guess what - I won).Another movie of exactly the same ilk recently was Bend it Like Beckham.Now I am sure that some of you are thinking I am just cold-hearted but I love feel good movies, when they are decent movies. Amelie was one of my favourite movies of the last years. This isn't feel good, this is just crass sentimental crap.  "}{"Title":"A great romantic comedy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm recently married to a second generation Greek so when this movie came into theatre I just HAD to watch it. It was an excellent independent film with very sharp jokes and good taste humor with out mentioning outstanding acting. It is getting harder and harder to find good comic films with out having the character swearing constantly!I really enjoyed this film which was not only very close to the true but also showed many family values that had been lost. I'm very glad that an independent film did as well as My Big fat Greek wedding. The film still in theatre and I encourage people to go and see it and support independent brilliant talent.An excellent film 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Big Fat American Belly Laugh!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times and am ready to go see it again! My Big Fat Greek Wedding will have you laughing out loud from the very beginning of the movie to the very end! This is a movie the whole family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"What a close family","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When i first watched it i knew that this movie was a HIT! I just couldn't stop watching it. I have seen it four times already and i can't get enough of it. The writer and incredible actress Nia Vardalos really contributed so much to this film and also it's all thanks to the fantastic people of Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks. If it weren't for them, this play that was once only an ordinary play has turned into a smash box office hit.I truly am proud of Ms. Vardalos and My Big Fat Greek Wedding has really made millions of people all over the world laugh until they fall right down to the floor. This film shows the extremely enormous Greek family that just can't stop eating and also just can't stop breeding Greek children. I know that i'll keep watching it over and over again!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the best Romantic Comedies ever.  Its greatest attribute is that it relates to all audience members.  You sit there and think, My mom does that, or Oh yeah, been there.  It also encompasses the various levels of humor from slap stick (poking her eyes out while putting contacts on), to dry, witty humor (The other girls were blonde and delicate.  I was a swarthy nine-year-old with sideburns).  The character are also really well written, and portrayed.  The fact that many of the characters themselves were actually Greek, introduces us to a culture that is hardly ever heard of.  After seeing the movie, Italians, Filipinos, and Latinos alike can say  The Greeks almost eat as much as we do.  It diminishes ethnic lines and lets us see how truly similar we are.  Oh yeah, and for those of you who have seen it, everything about Windex is true (she said that her dad actually does that in real life).  For those of you who haven't, just chant Everything about the Windex is true, and spitting is part of it.  Confused?  Well, you'll have to see it to find out. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding is one of the funniest and most poignent movies I have ever seen.  I laughed till my sides hurt and the tears were running down my face.  You don't have to be Greek to appreciate this movie - it fits any ethnic group.  Make sure to see this movie - you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Not crap. But not funny either.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult to review this film. It wasn't awful, was full of likeable enough characters and was easy enough to follow.The problem is that the film is supposedly a comedy. In reality it isn't. Neither I, nor the bird I went with, laughed once. You count on one hand the times I even raised a slight snigger. The phone cord scene & the Nan getting caught by the sprinklers were the only occasions I can recall.The 'punt' / 'bun' / 'bunt' gag? (any ideas anyone?) When the mother in law to-be, turned up with a cake was it? went way over my head & the heads of most of the cinema by the looks of things. Even now, I've not a clue what was all about.Every other joke (playing tricks on the new language learner etc) have been flogged to death in the past. Infact the whole plot had. You could have substituted Greeks with Italians, Chinese, Indians, etc and had exactly the same ideas generated. This time of film has been done both seriously and humourously in every way possible.One reviewer below claims he/she has a Greek Wedding to go to on Saturday & now cannot wait for it. That is the problem with these sort of films, although, it's not the films themselves - they're just intended as lighthearted entertainment, but the people who watch them, leave the cinema genuinely under the assumption that all Greeks are like this. I worked in London offices with many Greek people, none of which were anything like this.It was compared to both Four Weddings & Notting Hill, but it isn't isn't in that league. The plot was far more formulaic & never really gave the cast any scope to be funny. That's a shame because as I said, they all acted really well, were a great set of characters are definitely the base of a good sound film. Unfortunately the person in charge of writing the jokes didn't fulfill his/her part of the bargain.A high 4/10 "},{"Title":"Overrated, predictable and not really funny.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As many have already pointed out, there isn't a single original line of dialogue or idea in this thing. Everything is so predictable and boringly linear. I understand this movie is not to be compared to The Godfather, Citizen Kane or Battleship Potemkin, and that its aim is to deliver funny, light-hearted, cheap entertainment. However, to borrow a line from MasterCardDid I laugh? NO.Was I entertained? NOT AT ALL.Am I glad I saw it on a 10-hour intercontinental flight where I had nothing better to do? DEFINITELY.My Big Fat Greek Wedding seems to operate on a recognition level. Perhaps somewhere we all saw or met characters similar to these and I guess we're now supposed to say Hey, I know people kinda like that and start laughing. Never mind that all of these exact same gags have been covered in hundreds of Saturday Night Live, In living color, Mad TV skits and countless half-witted sitcoms. I kept waiting for this movie to go somewhere other than this 'hey look at us, we're all a bunch of zany Greeks' stuff which got old really fast, but it didn't want to. Instead it marched on with stereotypes & clichés and 15 minutes into it anyone with an IQ over 40 could have plotted out the rest of the movie. To hear that such a mediocre offering is the highest grossing independent film of all time is simply appalling and another proof of the theory that audiences don't really want to see quality, challenging movies.Yes, you can insert any number of ethnicities instead of Greek in this movie. And, so what? The fact that this is an unoriginal, predictable and boring movie still remains. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Must Be Scratching It's Collective Head","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very flat-footed, plodding romantic comedy that just has no pace or spark whatsoever.  I wouldn't begrudge the filmmaker's their success but the direction, much like the script, is just terrible.  The romance never ignites and is hardly believable.  It's easy to see the appeal of the stage show--everyone likes to bitch about their family and the characters are hyper-exaggerated like a standup routine--but on film it just comes across like a thin collection of cheap gags spread out over two hours (which it definitely feels like).  A lot of nice touches but it doesn't really add up to a cinematic experience and there's no getting around how awful the direction is.  Good on them but better luck next time. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice to see that such a lovely movie about the Greek culture could be made in such high spirits. I saw it with my mom, thinking I might be the only type of guy to go see this type of movie with, and I was surprised to see that other guys were doing the same. There were tonnes of families in the theatre. It proved that this movie struck a cord with audiences because of its wit. The only disappointing factor lies with IMDB. It's not on the top 250 list although it meets all requirements. Despite IMDB not recognizing it, go see it, it's great. "},{"Title":"Hopa! Hopa! Hopa! The best film of the Year!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best, most enjoyable movie I have seen in a long time. I always hear, They don't make movies like that anymore, but My Big Fat Greek Wedding proves YES THEY DO!  I don't know where to start.  The script, the story, and the acting are superb.  This movie was a sleeper that was not launched with a big publicity blitz like Pearl Harbor. But word of mouth got around and the movie is still in theaters, in fact has opened at additional theaters, and I hear that it has been up as high as #2 on a few recent weekends, making over $100 million on a $5 million budget.You've probably heard the story.  Toula, a 30 year old unmarried daughter of a Greek restaurant family lives a dull life until she decides to break out of her rut in the restaurant.  She takes college courses, and convinces her aunt to let her work in her family travel agency.  She meets Ian, a handsome, interesting teacher who is everything she could want in a boyfriend except...he's NOT Greek!  When her parents discover she's dating an outsider they invite a string of un-interesting bachelors to dinner because they are Greek.  Love conquers all, and Ian gladly makes many accommodations including converting to the Greek Orthodox Church.  Finally the ethnic, but loving family welcomes him with open arms.  I loved the scenes where he meets the many colorful characters in the extended family.  Being an only child with only one first cousin, he suddenly has brothers and 27 cousins, aunts, uncles, and his mother and father in law.This movie celebrates America at its finest.  We are a nation of immigrants, and we come from many different ethnic traditions.  We can continue to celebrate our heritage yet still live the American dream.  Gus, Toula's father who has succeeded in America with his wonderful restaurant, appreciates this country, and when he finally accepts Ian to be his son-in-law, it is truly touching.I think this proves that a movie can succeed on the strength of the story and the characters.  There are no car chases, no special effects, no filthy language, no graphic sex, no dominating big-name star, and no violence.Kudos to Nia Vardalos, both author and leading lady of this gem.  I definitely recommend that you see this movie while it is still in theaters.  But as soon as it comes out on video, we intend to see it again.  Definitely a 10!!!  Hopa! Hopa! Hopa!    "}{"Title":"A Cinderella Story  Greek Style","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anything this writer could comment about MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING at this point would be superfluous. A cinematic tornado, this little movie, budgeted at 5 million dollars, has already earned 1 hundred million dollars and is still going strong.The Cinderella story of a Greek- American woman's ties (and binds) to her family and her quest to meet and marry the man of her dreams is the brain child of Nia Vardalos , a Second City alumnus who only a short time ago was performing stand-up comedy routines and a one-woman show based on her Greek family and upbringing. On one fateful night actress Rita Wilson caught Vardalos' show, went backstage to express her enthusiasm ( Wilson is of Greek descent ) and urged husband Tom Hanks to see the show the next night...the rest, they say, is history. Wilson and Hanks urged Vardalos to write a screenplay based on her stage comedy, whereupon the aspiring actress presented the couple with an already written script ; thus came into being what is undoubtedly the most successful rags to riches story since a down-on -his-luck actor named Sylvester Stallone penned a little number called Rocky over 25 years ago. Hanks and Wilson signed on as co-producers ; veteran t.v. director Joel Zwick assumed directorial chores and a number of terrific actors were cast to flesh out a movie with family members and other characters only alluded to on the stage. The resultant movie is a warm, mildly caustic but ultimately loving look at family dysfunction. Foutoula Portokalos ( Vadalos ) is a hostess at her father's Greek diner ; a seeming wallflower, poor Tula has seated too many parties and poured way too many coffees in her life. Bound by some invisible chain, her parents, siblings and assorted aunts, uncles and cousins (all named Nick, by the way) are resigned to the fact that always reliable stay -at -home Tula will forever pour the coffee and never leave the nest. When a drop dead handsome customer enters the restaurant one night to join a colleague for dinner, Tula is thunderstruck. Completely stymied by the man's presence, Tula can't even pour coffee into the man's cup and quickly makes a beeline for the hostess station. When the two men leave the diner, Tula is left with a lovely vision and the all-too-real prospect of living out the rest of her life as a lonely spinster in Diner purgatory. That is as much of the story as I'll reveal, because this movie is too funny to ruin with a long-winded rundown of the plot ; not that the viewer won't be able to surmise very quickly where the screenplay is heading. MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING is very broadly played but in the finest sitcom tradition. There is much ethnic humor, some of it repeated a little too often and some of the jokes fall flat. But most of the time this is a hilarious comedy that everyone should be able to identify with. Nia Vardalos invites you into her family's world and although it is specifically a Greek one, the universal problem of parental control and children wanting to live their own lives is an instantly recognizable one. Tula's parents are played to perfection by Michael Constantine ( from Room 222) and Lanie Kazan, a wonderful singer and character actress who has graced many a movie in the past. Andrea Martin , another brilliant Second City performer, is priceless as Tula's opinionated but lovable Aunt Voula. Louis Mandylor as Tula's overly protective brother steal's every scene he's in. As to what happened to that handsome man in the diner....well, you'll have to see the movie. "},{"Title":"Too bad I only have two thumbs to put up! (minor spoilers)","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the two best independent films I've ever seen. (Brigham City is the other.) My Big Fat Greek Wedding is about Fotoula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos), a Greek-American woman who is insecure about her looks and embarrassed by her family's overpowering... Greekness? Greekiness? Greekosity? Well, they're VERY Greek. She meets and falls in love with Ian Miller (John Corbett, Serendipity), but keeps the relationship a secret, knowing that her father would disapprove. Why? Because he's... GASP!... not Greek.Vardalos, who also wrote the story (originally as a one-woman play) does an excellent job in her portrayal of Toula. Anyone who has harbored major insecurities about one's self will immediately sympathize with her character. Also well-portrayed was Gus Portokalos (Michael Constantine), Toula's father, who is convinced that everything of value (and all words) are Greek in origin, and that Windex cures all ills. (I was waiting for him to claim that Windex was invented by a Greek, but it never happened.)On of my favorite parts of the movie was Gus's futile attempts to convince the aged grandmother that the war is over and the Turks and Greeks are friends now!There was only one negative point I could find with this film, and it's not that major, either The film lacks the usual buildup of suspense or conflict which climaxes and is resolved near the end. The biggest conflict that arises in the film is her father's opposition to her marriage to Ian, and that gets more or less resolved around halfway through the movie. However, the film's content is good enough that the lack of a real climax to the movie is not much of a detriment.My Big Fat Greek Wedding is just plain hilarious, and one of the few movies that I've seen recently where I left the theatre with an honest-to-goodness feel good feeling. Movies that do that (without getting ridiculously sappy) are rare, and this is a rare film. "},{"Title":"Let the critics carp - this is one heck of a good show!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let's face it I was put off by the title and the luke-warm reception of the critics.  I thought it was Adam Sandler goes ethnic.  To mix a metaphor or two, good word-of-mouth gave it feet or legs and we finally got to see it at our local last stop movie house (where it had been running for weeks and weeks).I'm sorry we waited so long to see it.  If you haven't, walk rapidly, do not run, to your local movie.  You might see us there, again. "},{"Title":"Was pleasently surprised and entertained.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My partner and I saw My Big Fat Greek Wedding at our local many-plex and didn't know just what to expect of this film.  We were very pleasently surprised by its lack of crude language, sex and violance, but instead was a fine, entertaining feel-good movie that doesn't make you wonder why you bothered to watch it.  I didn't want it to end. I am glad to see that this film is growing in popularity at the box- office (15th week in top ten) and am hoping Hollywood takes a cue and realizes that there really is a market for this kind of movie. Thanks to Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks for having the forsight to bring this play to the big screen. This is one DVD I'm looking forward to add to my collection.        "},{"Title":"It's so hilarious that you want to join the bash.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When a Greek woman (Nia Vardalos) in thirties, decides to marry a man (John Corbett) who doesn't share the same heritage.  The family, friends, and of course, her parents, are surprised and left in shock.Lainie Kazan and Michael Constantine also appear as the parents of their daughter who made the unthinkable decision and they're just as good as Vardalos and Corbett.  Vardalos, who also wrote the story, throws in an unusual mix of Greek humor and bizarre gags that don't gross the viewer out. My favorite one is when the Constantine character, Gus, says that Windex works on bumps, bruises, zits, etc.This movie reminded me how wild some of the wedding celebrations that I've attended in the past even though I'm not Greek.  Plus, if you want  your boyfriend/girlfriend to this movie, excellent move on your part.  And those members of the Academy better give this movie a chance at the time when nominations are announced.  One of the best romantic comedies that I've seen in years.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as Moonstruck, but still entertaining","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable film.  Very funny in places.  However, it's not particularly smart or different.  Moonstruck did all this years ago with the Italians instead of the Greeks and with better characterizations.  I mean, let's face it, in this film you have no idea why this couple falls in love.  They just do because it sets up the whole hilarious situation.  It was fun and that's about it.  Gets a 7 from me. "},{"Title":"It's funny 'cause it's true!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my new favorite movies.Whether or not it's your own family, everyone knows people like Toula's family AND people like Ian's family. This movie allows you to identify and commiserate, and laugh and get misty-eyed.The writing and acting was superb. The plot could have ended up feeling formulaic, but instead it felt TRUE.If you don't love this movie... for goodness' sake, get some color in your life! "},{"Title":"A delight from start to finish!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When the film first started, I wondered if they could possibly sustain such a rich level of warm humor - but to my great delight they did, all the way through. Everything works here the screenplay, the directing, the acting, and the wonderful chemistry between the two leads. Don't miss this film!  "},{"Title":"I really did want to like it...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After several months of hearing recommendations for this movie, I finally got around to seeing it.  I really had no greater expectation than for a lighthearted romantic comedy about a big ethnic family.Despite the incredibly trite and cliched Cinderella transformation of a dowdy, frumpy woman with ill-fitting glasses into a confident, radiant woman with contact lenses, I did, in fact, enjoy the first 45 minutes or so. True, the jokes were unoriginal and there wasn't much of a story, but I was looking for fun and light, and it delivered.However, the rehash (over and over and over) of the same half-dozen eccentric ethnic family (and corresponding lifeless snobby WASPs) jokes, the lack of an engaging storyline and the two-dimensional characters got tiring after a while.The movie makes no effort to explain the attraction and romance between the couple -- they're just thrown together as an excuse for the wedding, which is necessary to work in the aforementioned jokes.  What little story and character development there was just the minimum necessary to set up the jokes.  Once the jokes had all been made (shortly into the film), there was simply nothing left to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Trite and a half","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The jokes are terribly old, even the crude humor; the comic timing for the first fiteen minutes or so is bunk, especially the narration; the plot of the love story is bunk, to be married so soon after simpleton dating scenes; and worst of all, the pacing is contrived, jumpy and pathetic bunk.  This is the worst movie I have seen since Save the Last Dance, and at least we could laugh AT that.  There are only three reasons this movie does not get a 1/10 a) a really good performance by the leading lady b) a fairly magical bridge scene c) some very funny (and I hope) original clean jokes. (hahahaha....)3/10The root of the work bunk is...My Big Fat Greek Wedding  "}{"Title":"It's wonderful!!!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about My Big Fat Greek Wedding?  It'a a wonderful movie. It's very funny and intelligent. I love it. I could not help recommendation it to all of our friends. And they all love it too. You should go and enjoy it yourself. "},{"Title":"I laughed for the whole movie!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No fancy comments. Just a note that this was one of funniest movies I have ever seen. I laughed from beginning to end. It is sweet, perceptive, and wins you over in a wink. Indeed, there were times I was laughing so hard I hoped nothing funnier was going to happen lest I hurt my sides. Enjoy. It is sure to be one of the classics of comedy.  "},{"Title":"Best ethnic comedy in years","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although superficially about a Greek-American family caught between their Old World loyalties and love of their daughter, it is really about the ambivalent relationship that all mixed heritage, Western civilization residents have with their family history.  I reminded me of My Favorite Year (which also featured Lainie Kazan) in which a 1950's Jewish-American TV writer tries to reconcile the embarrassment he felt for his ethnic family when introduced to an iconic, washed-up movie star. Neither movie was really about ethnicity; both are about the humor inherent in the balance between the pride and customs of family and the desire for self-determination and acceptance. I recognized the `sheep brains/ eyeball' eating story and `crazy, non-English speaking Grandmother' from other non-Greek origins. The producers did not cast a Hollywood super-model as the female love interest, played by Nia Vardalos (an opportunity missed by casting the surgically enhanced, narcissistic Cher in Moonstruck) and she is perfect as the less-then-beautiful 30 yr. old.  She looks like she ought to look.  John Corbett appears as the compliant and good-natured WASP who happily submits to the mild indignities that the family, in their robustness, sees fit to inflict upon him.  Do not look for tension, deep meaning, car chases, and secret conspiracies or drug addiction.  Those who grew up on such pap may be bored, as will be those who have no experience with cultural heritage sharing.  I personally love the father's insistence on pseudoeducational games (`tell me the word and I'll tell you the Greek root') and the mother's low-key control of the father's decision-making.  All very familiar to the many of us, and a reason to see this movie many times. "},{"Title":"Half-funny B-rated Greek cliches from past times.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, some of it was funny and cute-ly done, and much of it reflected the family enmeshment and love, and the funny as much as asphyxiating ethnic, generational, and gender lines that characterize traditional Greek (among other traditional) families... But for a one in a decade Greek-american movie, how can you not complain about its unelegant (both in its writing and direction) portrayal of peasant stereotypes oozing from past generations... A dumb-sounding (could he talk any slower?), manipulated ethnocentric (always looking for the Greek etymology to glorify our language) father, the hysterical Turk-hating grandmother, the epidemic of more hysterical, loud, or fat women, the immature adult males (dirty pranksters or approval seeking sons), and (how nauseatingly sweet!) the love-melting and home/family store-bound till marriage (and not going too far after... although admittedly through a hysterically funny gift!) 30+ year old virgin... might had been a precious (and admittedly not yet obsolete in the immigrant ghettos outside Greece) mosaic of Greek anthropologic caricatures, leading to thought provoking discussions, but... because of its low budget/writing/directing quality, remains just a (half-)funny B-rated cellulitic version (better suited for post-midnight TV) of a family- and fun-loving immigrant ethnic's close-knit but insecurely ethnocentric and taboo-filled past. I can only hope that the movie's apparent commercial success among the Greek-identified masses inspires and leads to productions at a higher level of ethnic-based entertainment. Recommended only for those immune to big/fat cliches (and social scientists). "},{"Title":"A thin, lightweight moviopolopolous","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you buy into the idea that it's fun to watch an undemanding, lightweight, romantic, slow moving (there's plenty of longeurs for ethnic snack breaks), unthreatening fairy tale then MBFGW is for you. But if you have ever found yourself watching a movie thinking up more dramatic plot beats than actually occur in the script - like 'she gets pregnant' or 'organised crime want a piece of the restaurant!' or 'the romantic leads happens to be married! Now there's jeopardy!' - then MBFGW is going to annoy the heck out of you. The most dramatic thing that happens is that - wait for it - Toula's father (can I bring myself to write this?) loses his temper fo a few minutes. Yep, that's it. There are a couple of amusing spots in the pre-credit sequence but that's as good as it gets. To call this a chick flick is an insult to chicks. "},{"Title":"Predictable comedy, but fun anyway","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Greek Wedding is a fun movie, even though it's very predictable. The culture clash jokes are nothing new, but writer and star Nia Vardalos has put some wildly crazy and humorous slants to the routine.Toula Portokalos (Vardalos) is a 30-something who finally meets the guy of her dreams, but he's not the Greek ideal her family wants. When he encounters her folks, the poor guy is bombarded with medicinal Windex, Greek linguistic lectures, rants about Turkish invaders, and other madness. Most of the comedy material is focused on them, so other characters (including Ian) are not developed as much.The love story is a little sketchy, but has some moments (the progressively passionate good-night kisses are cute). Ian (John Corbett) is an amiable and likable guy, and Ian's mellow parents are a perfect oppositional counterbalance to the Portokalos clan, being as dry as the latter is loud and gregarious. They play the shocked reactions to this wacky family with comic brilliance. One of the best scenes is when the parents of the couple first meet at a party; the respective parents' divergent personalities collide with dazzling insanity.Michael Constantine as Toula's elitist father, Andrea Martin as her zany aunt, and Lainie Kazan as her warm-hearted mother are outstanding in their roles. Other cast members are funny as well, in this playfully silly date flick that has a lot of heart. "},{"Title":"Funny in bits, but lags from middle to end","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Pleasant enough but there just weren't enough laughs to keep my interest. I don't think I've ever seen a Hollywood movie with less conflict or obstacles for the two lovers to overcome before finding each other. In fact, there is no conflict at all, except that traditionalist Greek dad doesn't want his daughter to marry a non-Greek. Both of the lead characters are bland even when together, so it was left up to the 'nutty' Greek extended family to provide the energy and laughs. Luckily the supporting actors were all excellent. It is SO nice, though, to see the old 'unattractive man with unbelievably good looking girlfriend' turned on its head. We need more movies where average looking woman gets a really handsome guy. "},{"Title":"Shallow","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a lot of potential, but the story was rushed (one line here or there to explain *a lot* such as why the groom isn't happy with the girls he's typically been dating), then there was the development of bride/groom meeting which was very 'forced', it just didn't seem natural.Then there were the families and friends that were one-dimensional stereotypes.  The groom's parents were almost non-existent and each of the other cast members had a token, rushed scene to develop who they were.  The only supporting character that had any real depth was the bride's mother.As a cross-cultural married couple (American & Japanese), we found that much of the real good territory available for exploring (such as perceived expectations in social situations, who pays for what in a wedding, or the differing life and social goals, etc.) was noticeably absent.Thus we have to view this film as shallow and give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was funny at all","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like a good comedy or two, but I can't understand why this movie was considered funny.  I bought the movie for $10, and felt like I was cheated.  The punch lines are lame and corny.  I can't see why this movie was so popular.  I admit that the grand-mother angle was funny, but she only was in maybe 3 scenes.  How can this movie receive a higher average rating than the Clumps is behond me.  I recently traded the movie for Scary Movie, which was very funny. "},{"Title":"bland and clichéd","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bland and clichéd, this is an annoying film about what could have been a great story. Sadly, the makers abandoned any attempts at an edgier look at immigrant life and turned it into a soppy crowd pleaser of a feeble romantic comedy. Not that there is anything wrong with that, but it feels like a missed chance to greater things. Check out the TV series spin-off for an even less challenging approach to the lowest common denominator of audience tastes. "}{"Title":"What's the Big Fat Deal?","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was cute, but what's the big deal? It wasn't very funny, there was little explanation for the changes that the main character makes in her life, and there is little suspense or anticipation we know from the title that she is going to get married, so where are the surprises? "},{"Title":"Totally overrated","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was quite disappointed after watching this movie as I felt reviews on it were totally overrated.The romantic comedy aspect is reminiscent of plenty of European movies, but lacking the charm.The script is too slapstick and Greek Americans are made to appear odd although similar family values are observed among most migrant communities.  "},{"Title":"My Big Fatuous Greek Wedding","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A Greek-American 'Plain Jane' is eventually allowed to go to college at the age of 30 and, with a newly discovered confidence, attracts a handsome WASP American.  Unfortunately, her parents will only allow her to marry another Greek and thus various hilarious (ha-ha) complications ensue.  These would all appear to amount to the man selling his background and family down the drain in order to accommodate what must be the most pig-headed, vulgar, insensitive, crass family in the whole of the Western hemisphere.MBFGW is one of those phenomena I can only equate to the maxim Eat S**t - A Million Flies Can't Be Wrong!  This is a poorly made, poorly written, infrequently funny rom-com in which very few of the characters end the story with redeeming qualities.  I have an Aunt who is Greek and I have to say that it must be a trans-Atlantic thing because, as far as I'm aware, she's a million miles away from the naffly offensive stereotype represented in this film.  And a quarter of a century ago she married my catholic English uncle in an English catholic church with her whole family present (and me in a fetching cream leather two-piece I was only 8!) and nobody said 'Boo!'.  The reception, I'm happy to add, was in a Greek restaurant.  So maybe - as has already been mentioned - the Greek ex-pats who don't find themselves in the good ol' US don't necessarily feel obliged to act in extremely OTT manner and alienate any non-Greeks who might come into contact with them.  Or, then again, maybe there are only a few Greek ex-pats as awful as the ones seen here - but Hollywood was not interested in a film about the tasteful, decent, normal, representative ones.  Hmmm...  I wonder? "},{"Title":"Very pleasing and funny despite a mushy core","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fotoula Portokalos is a Greek girl.  As such she is expected to marry a nice Greek boy, have many Greek babies and cook for everyone.  However she is in her 30's and still unmarried, working in her family's restaurant.  A college course gives her confidence to branch out a little and she takes a job at her Aunt's travel agency.  There she meets Ian miller and they fall in love.  However her family don't take well to the news that she's seeing a non-Greek, and that's before Ian proposes to her.This has received a lot of hype to try and turn it into this summer's sleeper hit.  Some of the time these sleepers are real dogs but here I had hope that the genuine spark hinted at in the trailers may actually be true.  Happily this film is a pleasant little comedy that is only slightly spoilt by how much it has been talked up &#150; some things are slight and pleasant, they don't all have to be `the funniest film of the year' or `the comedy of the decade' etc.The best laughs are based around Fotoula's family and for this most of the film is very funny.  However the plot needs to push the romance between Fotoula and Ian along to the point of marriage so it tends to overdo the mush and sentiment a bit too much in an effort to get it all in.  The end result is that Fotoula's transformation and immediate fall into love is a little rushed and not totally convincing as a result.  But to be honest the laughs are frequent enough to cover the scenes that are pure syrup.The characters may well be broad stereotypes &#150; but I forgave them by realising that Vardalos wrote this based on her experiences and people in her life, so they may be broad but they have some basis in fact.  But even if they were lazy stereotypes, they are all acted well and are all funny.  Vardalos is well cast &#150; easily old and dowdy at the start, but when she tarts up she does look the same &#150; not like Hollywood `ugly ducklings' who merely take off glasses to look perfect.  Corbett is lumped with the mushy stuff and very little comedy &#150; but I've liked him since Northern Exposure and he's cool.  Constantine, Kazan and Martin steal the film as the main relatives and I loved Gus's mother despite having few lines.Overall this isn't `the funniest film of the decade' or whatever else the trailers tell you.  But it is very pleasing to watch.  It's funny without being a riot and it's a bit too mushy and sentimental.  But it is fun to watch and I laughed regularly despite not buying into the rushed romance.  `A very pleasing film' &#150; put that on your trailer. "},{"Title":"This Prince Charming Fairy Tale is Patently Absurd","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you possess a rather simple mind and delight in watching a happy love story that bears absolutely no resemblance to reality, then this flick's for you. Let's make one thing clear from the outset Handsome men do not regularly fall head over heels in love with 30-year-old women who look like something the cat dragged in. OK, so Toola started taking a few classes, dispensing with the horn rims and the clothes that fit her like a potato sack. She began not only brushing her hair on occasion but styling it attractively. Still, she wasn't any great shakes, merely somewhat appealing, if a tad broad in the beam. For that flake to find himself wildly in love with her on the strength of a few long smooches, then to take her to his lair and suddenly decide he needed to marry her, was asking us to suspend disbelief just a bit too much too soon. I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop, for her to find him in a clinch with another woman, but nothing of the kind transpired. You may recall that a mere half-hour into their first date, he was already asking her for a second dinner out, which I thought indicated something seriously wrong with him. Putting aside one's growing skepticism, for this guy (with nary a second thought) to throw over his well-meaning but nearly lifeless parents and his entire waspish background in order to party for the rest of his life with his intended's loud and obnoxious brood, seemed to be stretching credulity a little beyond anything reasonable. Sure, Greek food is quite tasty while Greek culture once formed the entire basis of Western Civilization, but these people jump around like circus performers and one must ask how many men would become baptized in the Greek Orthodox Church simply to please his prospective in-laws? Damn few, I suspect -- perhaps a guy who'd found the woman of his dreams and was so blinded by love that he didn't even consider the potential consequences.Providing one of the flick's few real chuckles, just before the impending wedding, Toola's aunt incredulously inquires of her fiancé, What do you mean, you don't eat meat!? For her, vegetarianism could not possibly be considered (and of course the spineless wimp instantly converts to a virile, meat-eating diet right on the spot). After the wedding, itself (which thankfully was briefer than expected), Toola's extremely skeptical and unhappy father suddenly does a complete about-face and blesses the union by handing the young couple the deed for a house of their very own. As they say, that's Hollywood.A few years down the pike, we are finally informed, Toola had gotten preggers immediately following the ceremony (not from their premarital dallying, of course) and they had a kid who is now six years old. She has miraculously retained her decent looks and everything remains upbeat and sunny. In fact, it turns out that the house pop gave them is right next door to mom and dad! In real life, you just know this troubled girl eventually would have reverted to looking less than glamorous and the guy would have become tired of her increasingly apathetic and depressing perspective. He'd probably have been off boffing anything that walked, or at least thinking about it, more sick of all this Greek crap than she was at the beginning of the movie. Following her hubby's first real trespass, her brother and cousin could have fixed his clock, as at one point they'd threatened, which might have formed the basis for a truly happy ending, at least in my book.I'd like to give this turkey a one, but since my wife adored it, the heroine was sort of sweet, and her aunt a somewhat interesting character, I'll give it a two just for their sakes. "},{"Title":"Ugly Duckling Get's Married - Oh, She's Greek","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I finally watched this movie last night on TV - maybe they cut something out that was in the theatrical release.This is a simple girl meets boy - girl doesn't lose boy - girl marries boy. The difference is that she comes from a Greek family that doesn't believe you should marry anyone but another Greek.But this could just as easily be a story about any ethnic group - Nia Vardalos happens to be Greek so its a story about a Greek family.But after she and John Corbett hook up, you expect a problem because her family is so resistant to her dating or marrying a non Greek. And every time a problem arises, it is just resolved. Corbett's not Greek, fine, he converts to Greek Orthodox. Corbett can't have his friend be the best man at the wedding, no problem - his friend understands. Family takes over planning the wedding. No problem, just a printing error on the invitations that has to be fixed.Not that this is a bad movie. It's not a bas way to kill a little time while you have nothing else to do. But it's not going to go down in cinema history. I just kept waiting for something to happen that I didn't figure out in the first 10 minutes. Even the ending where the parents buy a house for the happy couple I figured would be right next door.Maybe if the father had not come to accept her decision to marry a non-Greek until the climatic wedding it would have had some suspense. I thought when she confided in her mom that maybe her decision was killing her father like he said it was would result in some conflict to resolve. But nothing ever comes up that isn't passed over.I guess this was marketed as a comedy but it seemed like a drama without any drama. In the end it's not a comedy or a drama which is a real trick. "},{"Title":"Nothing happens!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have no idea how this uninspired flick can get the rating it has here! A romantic comedy with an IMDb score of 6.8 is rare, so I thought I was in for a treat, but not so. Let's see what we don't get - Characterisation. The male lead is an absolute blank, we don't know any more about him when the film ends than we did the moment our heroine first lays eyes on him. The female lead is the thinnest of archetypes with a sprinkling of Greek ethnicity - unhappy with her place in life longing for change (her dream is apparently to substitute her waitress job in the family business for a job as telephone travel agent in another part of the family business), which some curlers and contacts are key ingredients in providing. The respective families are as stereotypical as you could want them.- A love story. Why the happy couple are attracted to each other remains a mystery, but fair enough - love at first sight I presume. But what keeps them attracted, what do they get from each other, what do they share? Where is the passion? We don't get anything here! - A plot! Nothing happens in this film - no serious obstacles, no interesting dilemmas, no twists or surprises.What you do get is ham fisted humor, which is mostly embarrassing but made me chuckle a few times and decent acting (though it can be hard to judge as the range of emotions is really small) - worth one small star each, taking this bore from one to three small stars. "},{"Title":"Trite","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A load of sentimental bullocks that you've seen 1000 times before.  Why this film has generated so much interest is beyond me,  its not a bad film, don't get me wrong, its just average, and very unoriginal.Romantic comedies should have at least some kind of twist or bitter taste, this thing is happy-clappy all the way !   "},{"Title":"How did this movie make so much money???","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of my time. I have a pretty good sense of humor and it doesn't take much to make me laugh. I didn't laugh once during this terrible amateur movie. I almost felt embarrassed for the movie trying so hard to be funny. If you're 50 years old and you're Greek, you might like it otherwise, don't waste your time/money.  "},{"Title":"My Big Fat disappointment....","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The trailers for this film made it look like an hilarious joyous comedy,...but what they did is put all the best bits into the trailer & to spread a couple of minutes of laughs throughout the film wears a bit thin. It all revolves around a large Greek family & their way of life & beliefs which are a bit quirky, but no way have enough milage to carry off a whole film. Its well shot & acted but after one laugh you wait a long time for another to come along,...boring. 4-10. "}{"Title":"Has everyone lost their minds?","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Horrible, Horrible, Horrible.  No wonder no one in Canada would finance this script.I guess it some how appealed to Tom Hank's World View.Perhaps someone should try My big fat Mick wedding or My big fat Indian wedding or even My big fat gay wedding.  Rather than try a TV show, the real franchise value here seems to be dumb humor around racial and social stereotyping. "},{"Title":"SOOOO BORING AND A LAUGH OR TWO","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Or should I say...two hours wasted. A typical H'wood love story, average actors (with one exception...played as Toula's father...Michael Constantine) and a laugh or two. And that's it. Why is this movie so popular than (only in U.S.)? Well I guess due to a huge number of single (frustrated) women, on whom this movie is apparently written on their skin. Since I'm not one of them, it didn't satisfy me, with it's too simple story and not enough laughs. If you want a real romance in wedding movies, watch Four wedding and funeral, if you want a good laugh take My best friend's wedding and if you are Abba fan, watch Murriels wedding. They are all decent, enjoyable movies. Which this one sadly isn't and that's why a poor3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"S*u*c*k*s with a passion","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  99.9% of the viewers who liked it must be Greek! I don't know what all the hype is about and I will S*h*o*o*t my self if they even try to make part2.Only a few funny clips and that is IT! Ahhhh I want why $5.75 back plus interest. "},{"Title":"A most boring film","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hello I am quite sorry to say but I saw this film on television and it's purely a soap,a most ordinary film to say the least! A film catering to the lower class of our society,(no culture but plenty of money)portraying a sort of family feud dear to the soap trend of yesteryear,tailor made to Mrs or Mr average,very boring,no imagination, stereotyped,the usual cliché';the intention of showing Toronto's ethnic mosaic was probably a honest thought since differences should not be a barrier or a hurdle,therefore erasing differences for the better and make it a success instead,I only can understand this film that way,but I have to say that the story was very ordinary,lacking flair,the script bearing no originality whatsoever,enjoy the day!Daniel "},{"Title":"save your money stay at home","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen such a poor film in years.the acting was wooden, every so-called joke was laboured, it could have been called ,Italian or yiddish wedding for all the difference it would have made.Every cliche in the book was used and not very well either! how it receives such a high rating is beyond me. the only good news was I used vouchers of a cheese biscuit promo. so I didnt have to pay to watch such a piece of old tat such as this other wise I would have asked for my money back "},{"Title":"A big, fat waste of time!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can hardly believe the comments I've read on this site about this movie having wholesome ethnic humor and being lovely, and sensitive. This is the most insulting movie I've seen in a long time, and poorly (obviously cheaply) done at that. First off, I am NOT Greek, I DO have an Italian maternal family that reminded me of some of the family members, and I AM a woman in her thirties. The relationship between the father and the daughter -- I don't care what ethnicity they are -- was nothing short of dysfunctional and psychologically damaging. The daughter was a big, fat Greek wimp for not telling Paps to take a hike if he didn't like it that she wasn't married or didn't wear make-up to look like society's version of beautiful (i.e. Barbie).. and that women shouldn't be educated. The fact that we were supposed to laugh at this guy because Oh, he's just Greek... isn't that cute made it worse.What's wrong with you people, particularly the women? Not only was it totally unbelievable and contrived that the daughter should suddenly, out of the blue at the age of 30 want to start wearing make-up, do her hair differently and pursue a career, but it's highly insulting to women everywhere that the implication was that this should suddenly change her life to the extent that Mr. Right comes walking right in -- and she gets to sit with the pretty, popular blond girls at lunch. PLEASE!!! (And ironically, the most soulless doll of them all for me in this movie was Ken, i.e., Mr. Right. Boring!!)The most I can say was that there were a few clean funnies poked at the Greek family culture, but I definitely couldn't get past the uninteresting (at best), damaging (at worst), contrived plot and soulless characters. "},{"Title":"It Failed to Engage Me","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nia Vardalos deserves a lot of credit for the films success, she wrote it and is undoubtedly the star of the film, but after all the hype and acclaim the movie got i found it simply didn't engage me all that much. I appreciate that the film is well written and well made, but i just didn't find it particularly funny at any point in the film, and ultimately i became quite bored by the end.I was quite surprised that i didn't warm to this film, its certainly got charm and it does have a very well balanced cast, maybe i just didn't relate to what it was trying to say as a movie, or perhaps its just not as good as its hype; either way i'm in absolutely no hurry to see it again to find out.5/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet and funny romantic comedy which will make you feel good inside","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, this movie is a sweet and funny romantic comedy which will make you feel good inside. When (John Corbett) and Toula (Nia Vardalos) met, I felt really warm and tingly. If you ask me, the way they met was really romantic. I didn't like the glasses Toula was wearing at the beginning of the film, though. In other words, I was really glad when she got contact lenses. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this sweet, funny, and charming romantic comedy to any John Corbett or Nia Vardalos fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Yet Another Wedding in the Movies","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Big Fat Greek Wedding is yet another inter-ethnic romance and big ethnic wedding. I may have been in a Bah! Humbug! mood as I was the only one in the audience not laughing out loud, but then I was one of those who didn't get the occasional Greek jokes before the subtitles came on. The best jokes were already promoted in the trailer.The side characters are less developed than in Lovers and Other Strangers and there's none of the insights and underlying seriousness of Monsoon Wedding.While the bride and groom are quite appealing and believable, it all just seemed cliché, predictable and overly sweet.(originally written 4/27/2002) "},{"Title":"Com-less rom-com","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Flat, predictable and basically lacking in jokes, this was rather pedestrian fare. It could come close to being Hollywood's first romantic comedy with no comedy, but I must confess to a few laughs. The stereotypes were accurate and amusing, but PC considerations dictate that the jokes are only ever soft. "}{"Title":"Fun Stereotypes and Culture Clashes Are What Make This Film Funny!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nia Vardalos plays Toula Portokalos, a woman in her thirties of Greek heritage, still living with her family, all of which help out with their family restaurant. Tired and frustrated with her life, Toula embarks on a relationship with a bonafide American, Ian Miller (John Corbett - a very American...well, American) and chaos ensues as her parents - and family - learn of Toula's little secret. First off, I must say that the stereotypes in this film are really what make it. I love the contrast between the average American family (Ian's parents) and the crazy Greeks (Toula's family, obviously). All the characters are very symbolic of their heritage, and the witty writing (by Nia herself) really pays off in the end. I must say I was a bit disappointed in this film. It was good, but not as great as some critics were saying, and I've definitely seen better romantic-comedies, even in the last ten years (Sleepless in Seattle, While You Were Sleeping). Still, the film is good, witty, and charming, and has a great cast, especially Michael Constantine's character. My summary Not great, but a definite must-see romantic comedy.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"My Big Fat It's Not All That Greek Wedding","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As the film starts, Toula (the heroine of the story) looks like Mrs Doubtfire's ugly sister but a brief night school computer course sees her transform from the proverbial ugly duckling into...ahem...well she never was going to be an oil painting. Still, a touch of lippy and mascara and a personality transplant to go with it and she gets the hunky but dull Ian to bend over backwards to accommodate her and her family. Yes, and pigs might fly!Why did I think I was watching the TV movie remake of Moonstruck? Exchange overbearing Italian family for overbearing Greek family and BOOM you got My Big Fat Greek Wedding.It's really not a bad film but gawd knows why it got so many plaudits. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie although is quite an eye opener for the Greek culture, and also although the movie has some funny bits which made me laugh, the movie's plot is just too simple, and predictable. Sorry about the repeat, they want 10 line so I am giving them the 10 lines.This movie although is quite an eye opener for the Greek culture, and also although the movie has some funny bits which made me laugh, the movie's plot is just too simple, and predictable.  "},{"Title":"Urgh","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was inflicted upon me on an international flight back home for Xmas last year.  How this movie became so popular I have NO idea.  It isn't funny, it isn't original, and it sure isn't believable with the wicked-witch-of-the-East supposedly attracting a Fabio lookalike. ; ) This has also spawned a hideous sitcom, if you find yourself enjoying either the movie or the tv show may I suggest sterilization so as not to pollute the gene pool?  (I joke because I care). "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever?","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie just plain sucked.  I only gave it a rating of 1 because I couldn't give it negative numbers.  This is one of the few movies that I have actually turned off while watching.  I thank God that I didn't pay to see this crappy movie. It wasn't funny at all.  The characters made me sick, it was really lame. "},{"Title":"atrocious","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i went to see this movie hoping it would be as great as everyone was saying it was..... it was instead the EXACT opposite. this movie hardly grabbed my attention. i was more preoccupied with the cockroach crawling accross the floor. i do not understand how any human being could POSSIBLY find any part of this movie to be even remotely close to amusing. I hope that everyone in that movie's careers are ended, and i am SO glad that the show was such a failure.... atrociouslly horendous. love, jeramy and erik "},{"Title":"Do not watch this film","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never before been moved to write a review of a film, but the hype given to this film on release must be resisted. It has virtually no redeeming features. The script is weak, the acting is weak, the plot is predictable. People who should know better have described this film as 'hilarious'. Well, I suppose if hilarity can be engendered by heavyhanded racial stereotyping and a running joke about Windex, then perhaps it is indeed hilarious. I feel conned. "},{"Title":"time wasting!!!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie on a plane to new york, and thought having seen trailers from it, that it'll be a nice movie. Sleeping had been a better option The jokes in the movie are predictable, the running gag in it simply not funny and I cannot recognize a line or story in it. The whole story plays at one location and the actors are very cheap so it must be a cheap budget. But I'll think the makers already knew they made crap with this script.   "},{"Title":"Pointless tat","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Greek Girl meets Non-Greek Boy.  They have different cultural backgrounds. They get married.  A truly linear film.  Don't bother looking for twists, there aren't any; don't bother looking for any profundity, there isn't any; don't look for any humour that may be construed as even mildly recursive; it is all surface and obvious. In short, don't bother. Pointless tat for the no-brain society. "},{"Title":"Innocuous Fluff, Yet Extremely Overrated","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Big Fat Greek Wedding plays out very well as a sitcommish, mirthful comedy exploring culture clashes through romance and family. It features two distinctly different identities the White Anglo Saxxon Protestant, colliding with the Greek Orthodox, and humorously explores how, despite their apparent differences, there can still be a happy, healthy situation made out of a romance between the two, in growing to understand and appreciate one another rather than dismissing each other as intangible and unattainable. So we have a zippy romance formed between a coy, 30-something Greek woman and a gregarious, unashamed American man, and the two really hit it off... That is, until the woman (Toula Portokalos)'s family enters the picture, and the extravagant preparations for their wedding are under way, whether the two estranged lovebirds like it or not! This is some pretty humorous, if derivative, material a near perfect idea for a sitcom, which quite ironically faltered miserably when the idea was adapted to the silver screen. It's far from being a sensational and very satisfying comedy, however, as it is somewhat uneconomical in exploring the many hilarious elements that separate the Greeks and the Americans, and while it does make an attempt, delivering such clever zingers as Every English word was derived by the Greeks and You don't eat meat... That's okay, I'll make lamb, there is plenty of other funny material that could have substituted for the vapid sentimental scenes. It's a very clever premise, and obviously very appealing, as this tiny independent romp somehow managed to garner a monstrous $240 million in domestic box office receipts, yet is perhaps too conventional and provides more sentimentality than raunchiness, and isn't really worthy of the prestigious title of a must-see, charming, and effective film tell your friends, it's a sensational phenomenon that people have given it much credit for. Cultural clash is quite amusing, and very popular, in this day and age, yet when the expectations are stratosphere for such a film as this to delight you to the end, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, I have to say, somewhat disappoints, in that it is too hurried, too sentimental, and too unresolved toward the end. I will comment that a sequel involving the married life of this peculiar couple and Toula's outrageous family is in dire order, and can perhaps improve upon areas where this film lacked. This is a (mostly) entertaining, clever, and amusing romp of a comedy, that somewhat lacks in character and plot development, and demands a less mushy, more lewd execution. It's good, just not phenomenal blockbuster dynamite. *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Warning Warning !!!!!!!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have a girlfriend/boyfriend than this movie works for you in only one way. Put it in your vcr/DVD-player than go into your bedroom have 95min. of the best sex you ever had, and after that put this movie away. For the rest of us the only option is not to watch it because you will feel like you want does 95min. of your life back.This comedy is so tradgically not funny that it's annoying. And you keep wondering why anyone would want to humiliate himself in such a way.In the whole movie there is about one minute of footage that made my lips curl into the beginnings of a smile and that footage is about 15sec. apart from each other. The rest of the film is just the worst piece of CRAP on Film I've ever seen. So do yourself a favour and waste your time some other wayThanx  "},{"Title":"This was funny?","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like others, I had high expectations for this movie.  In fact, my father offered to reimburse my movie tickets or video expense if my wife and I did not like it.  I'll  be submitting a request.I kept looking at the timing tracker on my dvd thinking when will this get funny?  Fifteen, thirty, forty-five minutes goes by and really nothing!There were only 2 things we laughed at (spoiler follows)1.  When the father compares his future son-in-law's parents to toast.2.  The first Greek word breakdown.The stereotyping really irritated me.  Very disappointing. 2/10. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Disappointment","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Big Fat Greek Wedding was the sleeper hit of 2002, ascending the box office in the United States that even I, in the tiny corner of Singapore, sat up and took note of its immense success. I remember making a tiny note to myself to buy the VCD ASAP, but I think I forgot about it in the end.It wasn't till late 2004 that I caught this movie and it's just as good that I didn't purchase the VCD because MBFGW is one huge disappointment. I really don't see how anyone can find anything good or positive to say about this movie. It's not funny, it stretches too long and it has absolutely no climax whatsoever. I kept waiting for a funny point where the movie would take a turn for the better and explode into a hilarious sitcom, but it just didn't happen. That's the problem with the movie. It just didn't happen.Maybe I don't know enough about Greek Culture, or I'm uninformed about references humour to see the alleged intelligent parodying that happens in the movie, but in my opinion, the movie was a complete waste of time and it was utterly disappointing. a 5 out of a 10, and that's generous.  "},{"Title":"This movie's a cheat! Zero stars","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is being advertised as independent and some kind of big hype. I went to see this movie with these false expectations, and result was really disappointing! Forst of all don't believe this cheat this movie is not independent at all! Financially maybe, but not from the art's point of view. When I think about independent movies, directors like Tarantino come to my mind, people who create a new form of visual art. But this movie is just an everyday crap, shouldn't deserve theatre screenings, not even a Sunday afternoon on HBO. The whole movie is built on boring and irritating clichés. What's so funny about the fact that Greek people are different to others??? What's so funny about the supposed fact, that Greek women are hairier than female representatives of other nations??? The whole plot could be summarized like that 10 minutes of bad jokes, 10 minutes of cheesy, romantic (or at least the creators thought like that) scenes, than again a few minutes of bad, simple and primitive humour. To sum it up DON'T EVER WATCH THIS MOVIE.  "},{"Title":"A Big, Fat Dud","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There isn't that much to say about this except for that headline which about sums it up. I didn't find this movie appealing, right from the start. My feeling is that if you've gone through weddings as pictured in here, or you're Greek and can relate ethnically, you'll love it. For the rest of us, this film stunk.I didn't find this humorous at all. What was so funny? Hey, I love comedies and own quite a number of them....but I didn't see or hear anything worth laughing at in this over-hyped film . The main character, Toula Portokalos (Nia Vardalos), in fact, was very unappealing, and I don't mean just her looks; I'm talking attitude, mouth (eight million OMGs, etc.) and personality. She was a pig.Maybe this is just a chick flick. I do know it was highly overrated. "},{"Title":"ethnocentric!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is definitely the best ethnocentric movie I've ever seen. It is also extremely racist ( the movie has racist elements against a whole nation, which is Turkish people ). Some people must tell some obsessive Greek racists that they are not the center of the universe, they are just a nation like the others. And also there is a huge difference between the propaganda and the cinema! Another point is that all Greek people do not think about the Turks like the movie presents. I just wanted to like the movie before I watched. Before the movie I had no any antipathy about the life style of people who are extremely Greek, but after the movie I decided that this is just an ethnocentric work. If the movie reflects the reality, yes this movie says something. Otherwise... Do not waste your time! Just an ugly propaganda parody! "},{"Title":"My big dull Hollywood movie.","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yawn. Let me damn with faint praise -- this is a pleasant movie.A nice single girl decides to better herself in some unremarkable ways (a little makeup, a little school), happens to meet a nice guy. They marry. Her loving family is more supportive than she expects.BFGW feels like a very dilute and feeble rip-off of Moonstruck -- it's not as complex, not as heartwarming, not half as funny and lacks the edginess and the great performances that make Moonstruck a classic.Worse, there is an unbelievable amount of filler in this 95 minute (including 4 mins of credits) movie. Unnecessary long establishing shots. Two full minutes of completely unremarkable let's show the girls getting ready to go to the wedding footage. Arty(?) silences that just feel like padding. I actually went back and tried to time out the parts I felt were just long pauses (not silent parts that added to the plot or set up a joke) and found at least about 15 minutes worth. That's an ENORMOUS amount of time out of 91 minutes of movie.It's strange that this movie gets so much press as being a successful independent movie. It is the most Hollywood independent movie I've ever seen.The (underused) Andrea Martin is an insane hoot as usual. And, of course, John Corbett is just dreamy. He is always the perfect on-screen boyfriend. (The fact that Carrie dumped him and later went off with Chris Noth as Mr. Big on Sex and the City surpasseth all understanding.) "},{"Title":"linear and predictable, low on laughs","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Australia is the only country where the promoters played the line that `if you liked My Big Fat Greek Wedding, you'll love Mambo Italiano'. I loved Mambo Italiano so I rented a DVD of `My Big Fat Greek Wedding' expecting to at least like it. The only things they have in common are reference to ethnic eccentricities (much more so in MBFGW); the expectations of parents for their children clash with reality; there is a wedding (80% of MBFGW vs. 5% of Mambo Italiano); and finally, the original concept was Canadian (MBFGW moves the locale to the USA, where the big bucks are, whereas Mambo Italiano stays on location in Montreal).  The stories are wildly different, but the most blatant distinction for me is that MBFGW has an absolutely linear and predictable plot, wastes lots of time with fluff and schmaltz, and has maybe two or three real laughs. Other negatives include paper thin characters, sloppy direction, average editing and a bloated script.One of the most disappointing films I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Un-watchable","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has been playing on HBO, STARZ, and or ENCORE for a couple of months.  Given all the hype I tried to watch it 4 or 5 times starting from different parts of the movie thinking there had to be a good part. I didn't find any. It plays like a bad sit-com which it turned into and lasted 3 weeks before being cancelled.  There isn't a single thing you an point to and say it's bad it's just dull and not funny. I tried to get my 15 year old daughter to watch it thinking that maybe I just don't get it but she turned it off about half way through. I told it her maybe she will like the end better but she said she didn't want to waste her time.  I see the star/producers latest movie bombed and though I haven't seen it I would be willing to bet it's the same quality as this one. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This has to be the worst movie I've ever been tortured with. I plead you to not waste your money and time on this pile of doo doo. There's no story, the acting is terrible and the actors look deformed and the jokes are unfunny and irritating. This has to be the most pointless and terrible pile of vomit in cinema history. This movie is also filled with clichés and xenophobic statements. The only reason this pile of dung is rated high is because Greeks who feel proud to be associated with a movie of their own, blindly give it 10 stars. I should've walked out of the cinema but I guess I was feeling masochistic at the time. Don't make the same mistake I did and see this movie. If you have a wish to torture yourself, put your hand on the iron instead. It will be less painful. "}{"Title":"Big Greek fun with Nia Vardalos and John Corbett","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Mom, I, My Aunt Carol and My Aunt Caorl's friend Jean went to see My Big Fat Greek Wedding at the movies and I started laughing during My Big Fat Greek Wedding. I have My Big Fat Greek Wedding on DVD and every time I watch My Big Fat Greek Wedding I start laughing at Toula's dad Gus because Gus uses Windex on everything and Gus didn't like that fact that Toula was engaged to a non-Greek man Ian Miller. My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a movie for everyone to see if you like a good laugh. I gave My Big Fat Greek Wedding a ten because it is a funny movie. In My Big Fat Greek Wedding I liked Toula, Ian, Maria, Gus, Toula's Aunt Voula, Toula's Uncle Taki, Toula's cousin Nikki, Ian's parents Harriet and Rodney, Ian and Toula's daughter. "}]