[{"Title":"Some movies are too good for people","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"445 out of 521 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I usually don't write reviews on imdb.  But I wanted to in this case after reading so many user comments for Session 9.  I think it's a shame that film audiences today have become so lazy.  Here is a film that displays artistry, subtlety, and intelligence, relying on the viewer to actually use their brain instead of be bombarded by useless imagery. This truly is a horrifying movie.  And so many people have problems with it... people say it's the worst piece of crap they've ever seen, but then go and high-five each other while watching The House on Haunted Hill or Jeepers Creepers 2. Movies like this are rare, but making a come-back.  The horror is psychological, and the director's handle on atmosphere is intimidating.  I found this film to be one of the most disturbing movies I'd seen in a long time.  Another great independent horror film, May, is also suffering from poor reviews by people who don't seem to really understand what they're watching, and react angrily to that.  If you are a serious movie fan, who likes to use your brain and be challenged by a film, watch this movie.  It's fantastic.  If you'd rather just see what the latest computer effects wizards are dreaming up, there a number of other films where things pop out at you and teenagers get killed by something. Stick to those.Session 9 10/10 "},{"Title":"What are YOU doing here...?","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"249 out of 313 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Seeing a film like Session 9 just reaffirms that there are truly great films still being made.While many (including the filmmakers) will find comparisons to Don't Look Now, The Shining, and even a nod to The Changeling, Session 9 still stands on its own as a most effective, brooding experience of dread -- and that's a good thing!  I found the style and tension more genuine than the grandiose The Shining, and Session 9 relies mostly on real fears and no gratuitous material to entertain.  This film wants to creep you out and that's its soul purpose.  No pretty young GAP models, no trendy MTV-influenced rap/metal soundtrack, no breasts, no giggle-inducing decapitation effects.  If you want those, by all means go watch something else as there are plenty other films that offer that to those with short attention spans. If you want to be drawn INTO a film, a place of fear, and THINK as well, Session 9 is like a therapy session of nightmares.The story is simple and complex at the same time, as workers removing asbestos from the massive Danvers Mental Hospital slowly unravel along with secrets from taped audio recordings of a former patient.  I never saw the characters' backgrounds as underdeveloped as some have complained -- you don't need to know EVERYTHING about these guys and besides, more information about them would have slowed the film down even more, and its nice, brooding pace is just right as it is.  And don't worry if some of the things that seem like clues are left unresolved, that's part of the fun.  Just like I still say many of the weird clues in David Lynch's works like Twin Peaks and Mulholland Drive are just there to be weird and draw you in, not that they actually have any direct connection to the main story.The actual Danvers Hospital is an amazing setting as the whole structure is a character all it's own and will disturb you without it having to do much but just BE there in the film.  The minimalistic soundtrack is unsettling and downright perfect (I even bought it on CD and am still trying to figure out why it attracts me so much, playing it in the background while, say, typing away something like this....).Each actor does a fine job -- yes, even David Caruso (some of you need to get off his back!) as a guy who seems to get a bit impatient yet maintaining a sense of calm.  Peter Mullan, Steven Gevedon, Josh Lucas, and Brendan Sexton III seem like real, regular blue collar guys. It's refreshing to see a film not insecure in having a mature, rough-edged cast.  By giving you a sense that these guys are real (yes, even though they tend to be slacking off quite a bit in places when they're supposed to get the job done in a week), the quiet dread of the story will draw you in and you'll be absorbed completely.  Of course, if you appreciate less flashy films like this, you'll agree it's damn near perfect. Oh, to those here on IMDb who criticized the scene with a jar of peanut butter left on the floor, welllll, think about this considering the state of its consumer, do you think that whoever left it there cared where the container was disposed?  Man, do you people get picky over the strangest things!  Whatever may seem implausible in the story or the characters' actions really doesn't wreck the film, as it is to be appreciated much for its atmosphere and story.  I didn't find the ending to be so hard to understand at all, those that had their mind set that they didn't like this film were too busy being angry to just sit back and let everything present itself quite clearly.If this film is categorized as horror then it's one of the best I've ever seen, definitely one of the best in years.  It takes a LOT to scare me, and there's one specific scene with Josh and his experience in the basement that caused a wave of tingling goosebumps all over my body. It was exhilarating to be scared that effectively by a single scene!Folks, you can't trash this film because it doesn't give you easy explanations or allows you to have some cheap voyeuristic thrills.  Many of you who didn't like Session 9 seemed to know from reading its summary that it wasn't offering slam-bang entertainment.  If you like your mind to be stimulated and love being absorbed in mysterious and wondrous storytelling, Session 9 is by my definition a flawless piece of work. For anyone else, I'd just say.........What are YOU doing here....? "},{"Title":"Gets under your skin","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"135 out of 171 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everything about this movie impressed me. The script was lean and inventive, the direction stylish without being overblown, the acting top notch. Even the shot-on-video cinematography looked great (with the exception of one or two exterior shots that had a hint of video look to it, most everything else was filmic and artistic).I also appreciate any horror movie that can generate real tension and suspense from imagination and suggestion rather than relying on lame and lazy tricks that populate most horror movies (if something as limp as Urban Legends can be called a horror movie).First rate film and I recommend to anyone who appreciates a thinking-man's horror film. "},{"Title":"don't watch alone, but watch it in the dark","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"106 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I work at a video store and when customers ask me what's a good horror movie that will actually get to them, I don't suggest any of the Freddy or Jason movies. Those are for fans, and I don't consider them to be genuinely frightening. Session 9 is, most definitely, genuinely frightening. It takes place at a mental hospital that is legend where I live. So most people know what I'm talking about when I say Danvers State Mental Hospital. It is one of the few psychologically affective movies that I've ever seen. It takes the audience on a ride through a building that seems alive to it's visitors, and forces the audience to resolve for themselves why things are happening to each character. If you want a movie that is challenging and thought-provoking, this is the one. I always tell my customers to watch this movie in the dark, but not to watch it alone. Just be aware that if there is any distraction during the movie you'll have many questions about it. I hope you enjoy it as much I as do every time I watch it! "},{"Title":"You won't know what hit you","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"109 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No point in mincing words Brad Anderson's Session 9 is the best horror movie I've seen in a long time. It's intelligent, well-written, it's completely unpredictable, it looks great (I didn't really notice until the second viewing how well the editing and the photography work together), and the soundtrack is downright creepy. Until recently only two films had managed to make me lie awake at night Dario Argento's Opera and Tobe Hooper's Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Well, now the list includes three films. Honestly, there is no excuse not to see this one, folks. Horror doesn't get any better than this. "},{"Title":"Imperfect but smart and genuinely creepy","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"77 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  With a brilliant premise, Session 9 is a slow build of genuine atmospheric creepiness. More akin to Nicolas Roeg's classic Don't Look Now than more recent horror fare with high body counts, director Brad Anderson effectively builds tension in layers of voiceovers and (mostly subtle) foreshadowing to build to a climax of madness, with sparing use of the cheaper horror devices. Unfortunately the characters are not as fleshed out as one would have hoped, so we are left with some unanswered questions (we would have liked to have met Gordon's family and Hank's girlfriend. Why did Mike drop out of law school?). Though the subtle horrors of this film may fail to grasp the short attention spans of younger moviegoers who consider I Know What You Did Last Scream to be the de facto standard of the genre, this is a very cleverly executed, if imperfect, thriller.  "},{"Title":"Creepiest horror film in years...","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"82 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is the creepiest horror film I've seen in years.  Brad Anderson has made a movie that is subtle, and features actors playing everyday people who not only act and talk like real people (which means none of the usual horror atrocities of going off in the dark alone, etc), but also aren't killed off one by one according to their billing in the credits.  The tension builds slowly, without a cheap shock scene in sight, until it is almost unbearable.  Towards the end, the plot runs out of steam and the twists are a bit anti-climatic.  However, everything is so well-crafted and executed in this picture, from the writing, cinematography and acting to the use of sound and digital film, that it's a moot point.  Anyone with an ounce of interest in the horror genre should rent this little known gem.  "},{"Title":"Here's a concept a genuinely creepy, effective horror film","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"58 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Made on a low budget, this brilliant horror film succeeds because it doesn't fall back on any cheap gimmicks, like special effects or shock moments, but instead provides an eerie, forbidding atmosphere and genuine, three-dimensional characters. Writer-director Brad Anderson allows each of the characters to be an individual, to develop and play off each other, so we become genuinely interested in who these guys are, and then he allows the horror to grow out of their personalities and the world that they inhabit. This is a genuinely effective approach that recalls some of the more brilliant horror films of the past (The Shining, The Exorcist) before they were replaced by cheesy slasher movies and self-mocking teen horror flicks.The plot in a nutshell five men are hired to remove the asbestos from a condemned mental hospital (the movie was filmed on location at Danvers State Hospital, a place so disturbing that many of the actors reported hearing and seeing strange things during filming). As the week continues, they each begin to be affected by the place, and it's clear there's a presence of some kind there... Each of the five main actors has a distinct style; Mullan is sullen and unsettled, Caruso is dark and intense, Sexton is hyperactive and talkative, Lucas is loud and cocky, and co-writer Gevedon is quiet and introspective. Their distinct styles allow these men to emerge as having very different personalities, and they play off each other wonderfully, with friendly banter at the beginning and as they argue and conflict with each other as the plot wears on and fear gradually sets in for each of them.As far as the film's ending goes, let this much be said- Anderson deserves credit for willingness to follow his dark vision to the intense and unsettling end. It was probably necessary for this to be an independent film, because any major studio would have forced the filmmakers to abandon their brilliant style and add a contrived, Hollywood-style ending. Like the great horror films of yesteryear, Session 9 powerful, frightening, and most of all uncompromising. "},{"Title":"Definately worth seeing...not what I expected though","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"53 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had read a lot on Session 9 before going to see it and had certain expectations.  Although it started out slowly, the story was good.  The scary parts were fewer and farther between than I expected and there was some mild gore at the end.  The psychology and personalities were what I found most interesting.  As the days passed after seeing the movie, I found myself remembering what I had thought to be insignificant things, and putting more of the subtle creepy things together.   "},{"Title":"Brilliantly realised horror with weak ending","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is a welcome return to the type of film whose horror relies not on cheap-thrill multi-decibel glissandos, jump-cuts and viscera (although it has its share of that), but on strong interplay between characters, and the gradual realisation that the worst things you can imagine are not out there, but inside your own mind.The characters are true to life, with Gordon, the head of the asbestos-clearing team (played by Peter Mullan, who also shone in the excellent My Name is Joe) being especially well-drawn. His stressful situation at home intrudes more and more into his working day. From the start we know he has to take this job to stay in business, and this means the team only has one week to clear the building.Work at the asylum begins normally enough, but as the truth about what happened in the mental asylum comes slowly to light (through the archive tapes of Session 9), the team begins to fall apart. One worker discovers a hoard of coins and valuables, and then goes missing. Paranoia runs rampant among the remaining characters, and accusations fly. At this point, we don't know who to trust. To some extent, all the characters become possessed by the atmosphere of the asylum.It's clear there's evil at work. However, as disturbing as the backstory is, it doesn't tie in well enough with present events to tell us for certain where this evil originates. Is it something dormant in the asylum, awakening with the team's intrusion? Or is it a potential for harm within all of us? Whichever it is, the conclusion is horrifying and effective.In a sense, there are two stories here, both told intelligently, but the connection between them isn't quite strong enough, and you're left feeling only mildly cheated. That said, this is still a disturbing, powerful film with scenes which will stay with you for a long time.  "}{"Title":"A True Psychological Thriller","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"76 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My husband and I had been excited about seeing SESSION 9 ever since we'd heard positive things about it from friends. Well, this chiller lived up to their praise and then some! By the time SESSION 9 ended, I felt like someone had been holding a knife to my throat for 100 minutes. I've never seen director/co-writer Brad Anderson's romantic comedy NEXT STOP WONDERLAND, but after sitting riveted and cowering in my seat throughout SESSION 9, I had a hard time imagining Anderson tackling anything even remotely lighthearted! Even when SESSION 9's blue-collar heroes exchange wisecracks, there's nothing jokey about the film; this isn't your ironic, self-mocking, postmodern kind of horror flick a la SCREAM. Speaking of lightheartedness, I knew Vin was as profoundly affected by SESSION 9 as I was because he never once leaned over and made any quips to me about anything happening onscreen, a rarity for my hubby! -) Basically, there are two kinds of horror films 1) the rollercoaster thrill ride kind, usually with cool F/X and inventive violence, which manage to be both scary and exhilarating at the same time (such as JAWS or SCREAM) and 2) the moody psychological thriller, usually character-driven rather than F/X driven (think HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER or THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT). (Interestingly, the original 1963 version of THE HAUNTING fit in the #2 category and the 1999 version fit more in the #1 category; but I digress...) In the more emotional, realistic horror films, you might say the terror comes from, to borrow a phrase from FORBIDDEN PLANET, monsters from the id. FP rendered its monsters from the id in animation form, but SESSION 9 doesn't need to. There's a sense of dread from the very first frame, with an askew camera angle on what seems to be an electric chair in an otherwise empty, long-neglected room. The sharp, sudden sound effects (passing cars sound like jets in this movie!) and eerie, backwards-sounding music by Climax Golden Twins (not at all what I'd have expected from Executive Music Producer Carson Daly of MTV fame) creeped me out, too. Having said all that, SESSION 9 isn't really a film about imagery, special effects, or gore. (In fact, there isn't much gore at all until the end, and even then it's plausible, real-world kind of gore, not some kind of Grand Guignol over-the-top bloodletting.) It's a truly intense, compelling nightmare about decent people and how, under pressure, their flaws and vulnerabilities and moments of bad judgment may lead to horror and tragedy for themselves and everyone in their orbit. I want to talk on and on about this film, and yet I don't want to, because I'm afraid of spoiling the shocks and suspense for you. I will tell you, however, that the protagonists are members of a hazardous materials removal team embarking on a job at the massive, imposing, long-abandoned Danvers State Mental Hospital (a real place in Massachusetts, BTW. So no, the Danvers name is not a tip of the hat to REBECCA! -). This bat-shaped behemoth of a building is so remarkable that it feels like a character in its own right. But even before the men set foot in Danvers, the stage is set for tension and trouble. Desperate to get the Danvers job, boss man Gordon (Peter Mullan), a recent Scottish émigré to the U.S. and new father of a sickly, fussy baby, bids low and promises that he and his team can finish the job in one week. Crew chief Phil (David Caruso) is unhappy because he thinks 2 or 3 weeks would be more realistic, plus he doesn't think much of crew member Hank (Josh Lucas), the weaselly troublemaker who stole Phil's girl. Then there's Gordon's wet-behind-the-ears, dark-fearing teenage nephew Jeff (Brendan Sexton III); in one scene, he's trapped in a hallway where each light goes out in rapid succession, making it look like the darkness is chasing the poor kid. Finally, there's on-again, off-again law student Mike (co-writer Stephen Gevedon, who for some reason reminded me of a younger, handsomer, more rugged Jeremy Piven), whose lawyer dad was involved in a case that contributed to Danvers being shut down. Once inside the grim old complex, surrounded by peeling paint, water stains, graffiti, creepy old equipment, and the various patients' memorabilia from the old days, Hank finds a veritable treasure trove in the morgue's incinerator, Mike finds compelling audio tapes of a multiple-personality patient's sessions, and the place's overall eeriness begins to work everybody's nerves. But is it that the building is in some way haunted, or are the guys really being haunted by their own demons? That's the fiendish beauty of SESSION 9 just when you think you've got it pegged as a haunted-asylum thriller or a revenge thriller or a cross between THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT and TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or whatever, it confounds your expectations. Soon you're too wrapped up in the mounting madness and suspense to sit there second-guessing. Every member of the superb cast gets you rooting for them and sympathizing with their characters (even Lucas as Hank is engaging in his own sneaky, self-absorbed way), so their unraveling has real emotional heft (unlike, say, the snarky, cocky trio in THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. I must admit I took a sadistic glee in watching those self-important little jerks degenerating into terrified, jibbering wrecks, whereas my heart went out to SESSION 9's protagonists). As budget-conscious parents of a young child, Vinnie and I could especially identify with Gordon; the writing and Mullan's poignant portrayal of a strong man slowly being overwhelmed by circumstances perfectly brought out the pressures of new parenthood and providing for a family. After the film was over, Vinnie likened it to HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER, not only in its true-to-life feel and its raw intensity, but in that it shakes you up so profoundly that you can't bear to watch it more than once. If you're into psychological horror, you owe it to yourself to see SESSION 9 at least once. It's one of the most powerful, disturbing films I've ever seen, and definitely one of 2001's best and most unfairly underseen movies.  "},{"Title":"Madness is just overactive curiosity.","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is directed by Brad Anderson who also co-writes the screenplay with Stephen Gevedon. It stars Peter Mullan, David Caruso, Josh Lucas, Brendan Sexton III and Stephen Gevedon. Music is scored by Climax Golden Twins and cinematography is by Uta Briesewitz.Danvers State Hospital (AKA State Lunatic Hospital at Danvers, The Danvers Lunatic Asylum, and The Danvers State Insane Asylum), Massachusetts. Built in 1874, opened in 1878 and closed in 1992. The home to misery, madness, tragedies and troubling treatments. Five men from an asbestos removal company, each with issues or points to prove, enter the vast bat shaped structure under the promise of a big pay off to get the job done in one week. But over the course of the week money will be the last thing on their minds.Psychological horror at its finest, Session 9, in the hands of Brad Anderson, pretty much gets everything right in this most skin itching of sub-genres. Like the ghost story splinter of horror, setting is absolutely everything, and few, if any? Horror settings are as imposing or eerie as the one time Danvers State Hospital. Sadly demolished in 2006/7 to make way for an apartment complex (bastard property developers have no respect outside of the purse), the place positively oozes unease throughout the movie. With Anderson choosing to shoot his film on videotape, this further aids the sense of realism and palpable dread, and although it isn't a stretch of the mind to think about some of the misery that played out in reality at Danvers, Anderson and his photographer Briesewitz ensure that it never leaves our conscious. Tone is set from the off as being slow burn, this is perfect as it allows us to get a grasp of the characters, their psychological make ups and narrative worth.With the Danvers facility proving to be the extra character, all things come together seamlessly to gnaw away at the viewers. It's a devilishly odd thing to say, but as the story and characters are given room to breath, the audience who have immersed themselves in the picture will start to feel claustrophobic, and then for the night time sequences, even achluophobic. It's pitch perfect pacing by Anderson, who prior to unleashing the unnerving finale, has pulled us (and his excellent cast) slowly through a labyrinth of dank corridors, wards, treatment rooms, caged stairwells and a morgue. Even on the outside during daylight hours everything feels bleak, either with characters loomed over by the building, or on a roof chatting while Gothic turrets watch over them menacingly, the ghosts and bitterness of Danvers Hospital exist fully in Anderson's movie.Story links a tape recording found by Mike (Gevedon) with that of the workers' unfolding plight. The tape tells of 9 sessions with a troubled patient named Mary Hobbes, to say anymore would be spoilerish, but for the record in this writers eyes it's the creepiest tape recording in horrorville. Add in the odd hospital prop such as a lone wheelchair, a hydrotherapy bath or an orbitoclast! Well you get the picture I'm sure. Climax Golden Twins provide a suitably jarring score, where disjointed noises and elongated tonal strains further enhance the pervading disquiet. Picture only falls down slightly with silly plot error involving a furnace, and for some folk the ending will inevitably be met with dissatisfaction. I liked it plenty but I also feel they could have gone another way with it. But it does work well and isn't a cop out, and certainly it's better than the alternate ending available in the extras section of home disc formats.It's a horror film aimed at a certain horror fan, the one who has the patience to enjoy slow burn psychological pin prickery. All played out expertly by cast and film makers at a naturally unsettling location. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Spooky, low budget, worth watching","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After writing, editing, and directing more romantic-based projects, Anderson turned to horror to make this, another just as effective low budget outing. The film makers took full advantage of the immediacy of video and &#145;found' surroundings to sustain an atmosphere of unease, leading inevitably to terror - presumably reflecting both the proximity, and the success, of The Blair Witch Project (1999). The differences being that Anderson's cast provide no first-person monologues direct to camera, and Session 9's events are more 'structured' (although the structure of Blair was concealed, rather than truly absent). There's a professionally written musical score too, amplifying events, and an ending which allows a resolution to the mystery. But like it's famous predecessor, there's a sense of natural horror here, well handled for the most part, providing a similarly refreshing change from &#145;studio' product.The plot concerns an asbestos cleaning crew working in an cavernous,  abandoned mental hospital (the real life Danvers State Hospital in Danvers, MA). Under a tight deadline to make a $10,000 bonus, tensions soon run high as they grow familiar and interact with the institution's history of lobotomies, multiple personality disorders, child abuse and gloomy incarceration. Leader of the gang is Gordon (Peter Mullens), who faces personal problems at home. It also includes his nephew Jeff (Brendan Sexton) who has a fear of the dark, Mike (Steven Gevedon) a failed law student, the brooding and scheming Hank (Josh Lucas), and Phil (suspected to be on drugs, who has had his girlfriend stolen by Hank).The labyrinthine institution dominates the film and the actions of the characters. Gordon is undergoing a stressful familial relationship; Hank locates a trove of personal possessions hidden by inmates; Mike discovers and becomes absorbed in the recorded testimony of a threatening multiple personality; while Phil has concerns about the viability of the project and Gordon's mental state... It would be surprising if so many disparate elements came together into an entirely satisfactory whole. Predictably enough, one of the weaknesses of Session 9 is that some of the terror, so carefully built up, is dissipated by a climax which leaves too much unspoken. Most importantly, Anderson's script fails to unite completely the two main threads of the story (the usurpation of personality and Gordon's personal crises). Phil blames Gordon's problems on `fatherhood', but by the end of the film a much more malign influence has been confirmed. But there's an absence of real satanic dialogue between the possessor and the possessed. It leaves the viewer hanging, and the inner tensions within Gordon's character remain nigglingly unresolved. While the occasional imprecations from &#145;Simon' may seem a brief, obvious way of suggesting the forces at work, they fall short of convincing motivation. More damagingly, Gordon's relationship with his family is too distanced (a sad phone call, or a gaze from a parked car) to evoke a real feeling of the effects of evil on their lives.  In the event, the final claim by &#145;Simon' that he `lives in the weak and the wounded' sounds more like an apologetic round-up of an instigating role than a convincing boast of events.Having said that, Gordon's breakdown is perhaps the best thing in the film. Our sense of his subtle, increasing alienation is a testament to some fine acting by the underrated Peter Mullan. In The Claim, (his last film before this), Mullan played a powerful, but morally guilty, man whose estrangement from human relations comes to dominate his life. In Session 9, Mullan again plays a man excluded from his kin - although on this occasion by forces overwhelming, in addition to his own dubious actions. Both experiences lead to destruction.There are some fine, spooky moments within Danvers, the superb environment in which the action is set. The old mental hospital, decaying and monolithic, provides an atmosphere that would be impossible to achieve except on such an ideal location. Hank's discovery of the hoard in a wall outside the morgue, for instance (ominously stressed by a compelling backward tracking shot inside while he scrambles, out of shot, for the dusty loot). Jeff's panic in the passageway as the generator fails, running for safety, the threatening dark in hot pursuit; or just the quiet moment when Gordon studies his ravaged fingers with unstable amazement, are all standouts. The artefacts that Mike discovers of Mary Hobbe's interview are convincing too scrupulously presented, the eerie tapes convincingly acted. So effective is this evocation of past events, in fact, that one feels disappointed that Mike does relatively little with his discoveries by the end.`Its gonna get ugly' says a prescient Phil at once point, and so it proves. So much of the first part of the film is fine, that the ultimate descent into gore, however telegraphed in advance, is somewhat of an anti-climax. Hank's madness, alone and stripped in a dark corridor, is considerably more disturbing than the stalk n'slash events which follow.  Perhaps Anderson thought so too, as he delays confirming the identity of the maniac until the very end. Along the way he confounds the audience with an ambiguous stand off between two major characters, a lot of separated principals blundering through gloomy passageways, and red herrings like Phil's strange meeting with two men (presumably drug dealers) in the yard. Interestingly, the American DVD apparently includes a further subplot, featuring a homeless Indian women - subsequently dropped for the UK release to help tidy up an already straggling narrative line.What remains is a good horror film - surprisingly good, given the limited resources of the production - unlikely to please those who like their terror on a grand special effects-laden scale, but of interest to those who enjoy excellence on a budget. Director-writer Anderson should be better known, as the appreciative reviews of his other films by fans show for his direction is sure and effective. Session 9 is a worthy addition to his underrated output, and is well worth looking for. "},{"Title":"This was suspense?","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading the comment about what a chilling, suspenseful, truly awesome movie this was, all I can say is...you're kidding, right. The movie tried to be suspenseful but failed. I couldn't write a spoiler about this picture for the simple fact that I never could figure out what the whole point of the movie was. One review I read compared it to the Blair Witch Project. Well, I agree to part of that description they were both awful. But at least with the BWP you had some idea of what was going on. With this film the plot seemed to just wander around and never really tie any thing down. At the end of the movie I had the same ho-hum feeling I did half way through it. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was so god awful it defied reality. While watching it me and my friend constantly had to make jokes because the script was so boring. They have this huge place to fix up, its gigantic, and they have 2 weeks to do, and through nine tenths of the movie everyone is goofing off or on lunch break, apart from that one dude who just listens to tapes.Then there is the first mildly interesting part which happens an hour into the movie when one guy gets picked off or whatever. Hes walking down a passage and for no apparent reason there is a peanut butter jar in the middle of it. What kind of stupid ass murderer does this? Why in the middle of a passageway? It makes no sense. Also, when they all hear footsteps on the floor above them, they decide it would be a good idea to investigate this by going down to the basement. One of them just decides he is going to listen to more stupid tapes while everyone else is searching for the missing person. This film is a classic case of a good idea gone terribly wrong. If you have to watch the directors commentary to actually realize that the movie is somewhat good, then the movie isnt really good. Besides that all the props that were supposably 18 yrs old, all looked brand new. "},{"Title":"Insanity the most persistent of evils.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" While I try to keep an open mind with people of different opinions, as we all do (I hope), I really find it an oddity that people who have seen this think that this movie lacked substance. Frankly, it is one of the most disturbing movies I've seen, and I am a horror fanatic, as boasts my DVD and book collection. I have my share of the teen gore slashers, and I appreciate them for what they are. But what Session 9 is, is a sub-genre all on its own. I honestly think people go to/watch movies nowadays just turn their brains off the second the film starts rolling; they want to be entertained, as is their right as a movie audience, but more importantly, they DO NOT WANT TO THINK. Any movie that requires use of more than 10 brain cells during its entirety is dubbed with nasty reviews and insults from people who just couldn't be bothered to open their mind and use it. To enjoy Session 9, and more importantly be scared by it, you have to realize that the premise of fear in this entire film is the horrible possibilities that lurk within each and every human mind on this planet. *SPOILERS AHEAD!!*While the subtle hint of a supernatural entity is present in the film, there never is any solid scene that proves Simon was anything more than a manifestation in Mary's/possibly Godron's head. I think what the filmmakers were trying to portray is that under the right mix of circumstances, any of us can turn into that crazy patient locked in the snake pit. As a student of psychology, myself and others in the field unfortunately see and read about the real-life version of this movie every day, and it is enough to make your skin crawl. If the thought that Gordon was so detached from reality that he could do what he did to his own wife and baby daughter is not enough to make your stomach turn, then you've probably seen way too many Friday the 13th's (with all due respect to that series). Again, too many movie-goers just expect cheap thrills and special effects, as much blood and gore as you can cram into an hour and a half. God forbid we all delve into that brain we have and realize the pure horror that already exists in our minds, just waiting to be unlocked. Insanity is a lot more scarier than death.To those wanting brainless entertainment, or a chance to make a move on your date there are plenty of teen slashers just waiting to hit your DVD player.For the intelligent movie buff who isn't afraid to think beyond the credits, you really do not want to miss Session 9. "},{"Title":"Points for tone and mood, but seriously weak plot","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I want my two hours back. Session 9 is yet ANOTHER movie that left me exasperated at the end. Moreover, I am really surprised that people are lauding this film with terms like 'genius' and 'fascinating' -- 'Session 9' is neither.What is clever about 'Session 9' is its setting, story set-up, casting and cinematography. The film deftly sets its mood and is expert at transition the audience between the moods, so that the viewer is relaxed one moment and seriously creeped-out at the next moment.The problem is that this is all for naught. The storyline is obvious and the ending is predictable. Worse yet, the ending is so predictable, that the movie spends most of its time trying to throw you off the track. That is NOT clever writing &#150; it is the byproduct of desperation for a good story to tell.If you're anything like me, if you watch this film, you will be throwing your remote at the television screen by the time the credits roll, angry that yet another precious bit of your life has been leached away by shoddy film making.  "},{"Title":"Dragged Me to Ridiculousness","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The plot for this movie is supposed to involve an asbestos removal team that go into a creepy hospital/sanitarium. The movie sounded good enough, but then I watched it. It's first flaw is in dragging its audience laboriously through the arguments of the team members as they take on the almost impossible task of removing hazardous building materials from a structure that is monstrous (no pun intended). One team member, through tape-recorded sessions (hence the title), recounts the trauma of one of the patients that lived at the facility. We understand that they have multiple personalities that lead to murder. About this time, one of the other team members winds up missing. We when see him later on it is difficult to know if he is alive or a ghost or something. I figured him for a ghost. Then the film begins to rapidly proceed through the remaining events, almost at breakneck speed. Killing after killing occurs at the pace of Session 9's recording, supposedly as some eerie backdrop to tell us how these killing are happening. The film tries to trick you into thinking it's a ghost (not altogether untrue), but (SPOILER) then reveals its antagonist to be that of one of the team members.He is slaying all of his buddies because he's possessed or something. This transformation occurs so quickly and without much explanation that is appears lame. In fact, I thought I was going to seem something further or some spirit or an elaboration on a reason for the change that I mistakenly kept watching. The ending is ultimately pathetic in the possessed crew-boss wandering around as some sort of troubled invalid. Repeated shots (like that on the movie's cover) are given of a chair sitting in the light. This is a reference to the psychological counseling sessions held. But the director focuses on it frequently as to suggest more than the obvious, which is only so because it's easy enough to associate. In retrospect, he probably should have had the chair grow wings or jump hoops or something.Bottom line - this movie does not pay off. And there's hardly any built up or suspense until toward the end. Then that peters out pretty fast as the film heads toward its ridiculously lame ending. A good plot was there for the taking, but this director looks like he did his best to miss all the right opportunities. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible. Major spoilers ahead.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I must say I was really disappointed with this movie. It had all the makings of a scary horror film (from my point of view at least); old abandoned mental hospital with a history of medieval and brutal curing methods, one of the guys working there finds tapes with recordings of old sessions with a schizophrenic woman who seems to have been involved in a grisly murder, the freaky looking electric chair on the cover that is also seen by one of the main characters in the beginning of the movie, hey, this oughta be great, right? Ummmmm nope.To me it seemed like the maker of this movie himself was schizophrenic, one day wanting to make a scary horror movie and the next some sort of family drama. All the scary parts that could really have been evolved into a right shocker are somehow and strangely abandoned to tell us more about this guy's wife, or all of the workers sitting together talking about their lives and plans for the future. What the hell? We don't even get to see any kills or gory scenes, which try as you might convince me that it's so much scarier if you can't *see* what's happening, would have at least saved this movie to a degree. The only emotion that this movie made me feel besides boredom was laughter (so that's an action not an emotion, sue me), due to the infamous F*** youuuu scene by David Caruso and the SaTaN rUlEs graffiti that was ominously scattered all over the walls of the asylum.Another thing that got me was that all the characters were pretty lame and annoying, which is fine for a horror movie because they all get killed. Well this movie is no exception, only thing is that it only happens at the very end, when the director finally seems to realize that this movie is supposed to SCARE people.There, I think that's enough. I honestly don't know if and how anyone could ever have been scared by this movie. "},{"Title":"Truly underrated!!","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am usually not a fan of horror movies so when I stumbled across this obscure film in the Free Movies section of Comcast On Demand I had low expectations. After watching the film I was blown away. One of the best horror/thriller movies I have ever seen. Kept me guessing the whole way through and was eerily creepy throughout. I don't understand how this movie has a rating of less that seven. Maybe people just don't understand it but I think it was extremely well written. All of the horror movies out today are all the same, this movie is unique and at the same time is much scarier then other traditional horror flicks. Please give this movie a viewing and you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Not perfect but refreshing psychological horror film","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This day and age, most American horror films seem to fall into specific boring categories. There's the boring and watered down PG13 tripe, the lousy and suspense free torture porn (exemplified by the absolutely worthless Eli Roth), or smug self-referential slasher flicks that follow in the footsteps of Scream (at least the later category seems to be fading out a bit recently). Thats why I really enjoyed Session 9. Sure, its far from perfect, but it honestly tries to create something original and frightening. Its a modern American horror film that doesn't make you feel like a complete idiot afterwards. Brad Anderson has fashioned an engrossing (and quite scary) exploration of the human mind. The film is original and free of clichés, which makes it quite refreshing when compared what gets labeled horror nowadays.Anderson's direction itself is pretty good. Its rather slowly paced, which will probably turn off a lot of horror fans. Still, its worth sticking with when it gets to the scares in the second half. It proves that with a bit of imagination and enthusiasm, it doesn't matter how low your budget is. The fact I was engrossed despite knowing the twist ending ahead of time (from having it spoiled for me by a review) is very impressive - the less you know about this one though going in, the better. After watching this and The Machinist, I have a lot of hope for Anderson. The acting all around is superb - creating realistic working stiff guys you actually manage to feel sympathy towards. Peter Mullan (who was impressive in Trainspotting a while ago but than seems to have disappeared) is particularly impressive as the crew leader who's going through a rough time.Ultimately, what made Session 9 worthwhile was the fact that after watching it, my two friends and I debated what actually happened and tried to put the plot and themes together for a good half hour. How many horror flicks can you say that about? Session 9 is the best psychological thriller since Jacob's Ladder. (8/10) "},{"Title":"A great film for those sick of the usual horror film","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'll be honest, this is one of my all time favorite movies. This is mainly because this movie is frighteningly real. If you are looking for a ghost story or a hack and slash film then you will be disappointed. If you are looking drama and horror in the way the human mind works then this is your film. The first time through it seems a little slow but with each viewing it becomes better and better as more details become seen. There are multiple hints as too what is going to happen. Look at the paint on Gordons hands. Observe all of the grocery items in Gordons bag when he is getting out of the van before the incident with his family. Each of the items in the bag are found in the mental hospital. The flowers are covered in paint. Hank finds the peanut butter jar while collecting the coins at night. Jeff has an oreo out of the van before he meets his ultimate demise. It is all very well thought out and well executed so that even with all of these hints the viewer never really knows. A great film. I recommend it for anyone who is looking for a deeper horror film then most of the crap that is out today. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Insanity","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The owner of a small asbestos abatement company, Gordon Fleming (Peter Mullan), needs to work and accepts to remove the asbestos of the abandoned Danvers State Hospital, a mental institution that is closed since 1985 in one week. He has a baby girl and has some personal problems with his wife Wendy, calling her on his cellular. Gordon and his partner Phil (David Caruso) need to bring more workers to accomplish the schedule, and Hank (Josh Lucas), Mike (Stephen Gevedon) and Jeff (Brendan Sexton III) join the team. Phil does not like Hank that has stolen his girlfriend; Mike is a law school dropout; and Jeff has fear of the darkness.Mike finds a sealed box tagged with the word Evidence and when he opens, he finds nine taped sessions of the patient Mary Hobbes that had multiple personalities (The Princess, Billy and Simon). Mike listens to the tapes and none of the personalities wants to talk about Simon. However, in Session 9, Simon finally appears and he discovers that he is evil. Meanwhile Hank finds ancient silver coins and disappears. Session 9 is a cult horror movie with a promising premise and environment but also with a confused development. The plot is a tale of insanity only and a kind of The Shinning rip-off, but not a supernatural story. It is not clear how the process is triggered in the head of the lunatic and the connection with Simon. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Not Available "},{"Title":"Downright Creepy.And it DOES MAKE SENSE!!!!!!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Logan 22's comments basically translate to I don't have the brain power to figure out this psychological and meaningful plot (and there is one trust me)so I'll just slag it off instead. It's easier.The film was excellent. It gave us something different than the average horror. We get four guys working in a mental hospital trying to rid it off asbestos. Weird s**t goes down. One of the crew hears a mysterious voice all the time which we later discover to be on a session tape of a patient. All the guys seem to be getting stressed out. And eventually murder ensues. This film's tactics is to confuse you and chill you out when the reality of what is going on finally hits you. And for all those who think the plot doesn't make sense. I'll be kind and do your own brain work for youSPOILERSYears ago there was a patient named Mary committed at the hospital. She has 4 personalities. One is called Simon. Simon is evil and got her to kill her brother. Interviews with Mary and her others are recorded on Session tapes. Still with us? GoodYears later the place is shut down and along come our guys. You'll notice that the voice Gordon hears in his head is Simon's so anyone who says the session tapes have nothing to do with anything are full of it! This is to show that Gordon suffers from the same mental illness as Mary. Hence thats why he was infected with Simon. The fact that he would be possessed by the same alter ego is what makes the idea chilling.The first day of getting the job. Gordon had walked through the hospital and Simon had somehow noticed he was already a weak man under stress and possessed him. Later when Gordon went home he killed his wife and child so anytime you see him talking to her on the phone he is talking to no one. He is insane. Eventually he goes on a kill spree and kills the crew.Makes perfect sense to me!! "},{"Title":"Amazing Horror Movie","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I agree with the comments by mflana1. I think this is one of the best horror movies that I have seen in a long time, and I would seriously doubt the critical maturity of anyone who thinks it's crap. What makes this a great movie is its ambiguity. It doesn't indulge the viewer with a predictable plot, but instead forces viewers to think about what ending best suits their beliefs. Is this a ghost story or the dealings of a sick mind? It's the kind of ambiguity most people praised in The Shining. This story also brings into play the psychology and effects that stress and monetary pressures can have on the working class. It's complex and thematically rich. I highly recommend it to anyone who loves to be challenged. It's also extremely scary! "},{"Title":"What did I just watch?","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Obviously I didn't watch the same movie that so many reviewers are raving about. This movie is nothing more than a bore fest that goes nowhere. Some egghead want to be's think that because they don't understand the movie that it must be brilliant and wrongly classify it as a thinking man's movie. If so, then explain it to me. A thinking man's movie doesn't necessarily have to tie all the strings together, but the strings have to be there in the first place. Psycho was a thinking man's movie; so was Memento and Donnie Darko. However, this movie was nothing but a total waste of time, with it's only redeeming quality being good actors and good acting; which still isn't enough to save this movie that was DOA before it was even made. "},{"Title":"the acting was okay but the story....","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" the acting in this movie was better than could be expected with what they were given to work with. props to all the guys who had to work with the horrible, horrible script.i have seen many different movies and this was by far the worst! the dialoge is horrible, and the plot is predictable (my friend with me, thinks it wasn't that predictable, so maybe it was just to me). without spoiling the storyline, there is a subplot/parallel that makes absolutely no sense to the main plot line and just was not connected the right way. the cinematography was fine and added to the movie, but there was just no way to save this movie from itself.my friends and i to this day use this movie as our standard...as in hey the movie we just watched sucked, but it was better than session 9! "},{"Title":"This movie is complete crap","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Although the acting can be pretty good at points, and the entire movie is very atmospheric, it's stupid plot ruins the entire film. Simon, the malevolent alternate personality of Mary is amazingly fake. His lines are some of the dumbest things written by man. When he's asked, Why do you do these things? he replies, Because they let me, Doc. (Insert James Bond villain laughter here). All of the characters in this movie act completely unrealistically, as demonstrated by a scene where a guy just stands there chatting away to a man covered in blood and carrying a knife. As if that wasn't enough, when the man stabs him he acts surprised. Also, much of this movies dialog is incredibly cliché. In conclusion, this movie is a god awful abomination that should never have been made. Anyone who has worked towards the creation of this movie is a disgrace to mankind and befouls everything they touch. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Deep-Dish Dread in Session 9","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Bare-bones plot a HAZ MAT team gets a contract to decontaminate Danvers Mental Hospital, a defunct asylum that was shut down in the 80s due to scandalous treatment improprieties. With a juicy bonus as the carrot for bringing the job in ahead of schedule, the asbestos removal team finds itself laid siege to by the sprawling institute's rancid, psychic residue, as well as the internal resentments and discord that grow with each day. The team includes the group's Scottish boss, Gordon (Peter Mullan), the foreman, Phil (David Caruso), Mike (Stephen Gevedon, the film's co-writer), Hank (Josh Lucas), and Jeff (Brendon Sexton III), Gordon's nephew.I thought this was a superior horror film, for three-quarters of its running time.I believe the movie scores best when it concentrates on creating an atmosphere of comprehensive, smothering dread. It is less a Horror Movie than a Dread Movie every festering duct and basement in Danvers (the juxtaposition of real and imagined poisons is on the spot) seems to be poised for the arrival of some Impending Awful Event. When the mystery is solved, it seems a tad perfunctory and less disturbing than the build-up that came before.(Comments below may contain some spoilers or semi-spoilers)Still, the director, Brad Aderson, really ladled on a lot of deep-dish, disturbing atmosphere. Danvers Hospital is such a great setting. The simple shots of a disquieting collage of photos on a wall with the captions, No one will leave feeling neutral,  and Some Day it's going to dawn on you are far scarier than a slasher with a knife. The movie was drizzled with a sense of claustrophobic doom characters fleeing down the hospital corridors as the lights go out behind them; the constant oppressive rumble of generators; the slow leak of coins and last effects from a hole in a wall. Like past cinematic houses of the damned in The Shining, The Haunting, Suspiria or any Roger Corman Poe film, the place is The Monster, and a great one at that with its decaying tunnels, basements, kitchens, wards, and 'treatment accessories, it's a vivid, nightmarish piece of turf, a perfect stomping ground for demons of the mind.Peter Mullan gave a terrific performance as the team's troubled Gael boss his ability to communicate his character's mental distress with a mere cock of his head or the way he rubs his eyes and distractedly nods at some half-heard query, conveys the workings of his trammeled mind. As Phil, Gordon's best friend and foreman, David Caruso was just as fine as Mullan you feel a sense that, given his personal life, the team's unity is the only thing keeping him going, and watching Caruso's working-class brio (I'm here for you Gordon)turn to paranoid task-mastering and desperation is great. Josh Lucas as the cynical wiseacre picking at Phil's particular Achilles heel was also very good. On the technical side, Uta Brieswitz' lensing really captures the dark nuances of the hospital's vast and creepy space, and the music, mostly brittle keyboards, is a definite assist.(Possible Spoiler Below)The movie keeps you guessing as to whether the chief culprit on hand is a diseased mind or some sort of demoniac infestation and the clues that are provided by the cache of Session 9 tapes Mike has discovered, provide plenty of ambivalent grist. Those conversations, between a patient named 'Mary, and her doctor, are squirm inducing in the extreme and had me looking over my shoulder when I previewed this at 200am in the morning. My own theory is that, in this case, like Takashi Miike's MPD Psycho, the villain is a demon/parasite; however, the film has you asking questions long after the credits crawl.Even if the movie's unmasking of The Minotaur is not as frightening as it could have been, it sure serves up one hell of a labyrinth.I will admit that I wish the filmmakers had used the hydro-therapy Tub, and some of those nasty-looking chairs. "},{"Title":"Flawed but frightening thriller","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" SESSION 9 Aspect ratio 2.391Sound format Dolby DigitalFive professional contractors are hired to strip asbestos from an abandoned asylum where they're haunted by the building's horrific legacy.Notable as the first 2.391 movie shot in high-definition video - the same process used by George Lucas for STAR WARS EPISODE II ATTACK OF THE CLONES the following year - SESSION 9 is described by director Brad Anderson as an exercise in 'creeping dread', filmed at the deserted Danvers Mental Institution in Massachusetts, whose crumbling interior suggests nothing less than the hellish Marsten House of Stephen King's 'Salem's Lot'. Anderson favors long, deliberate camera movements and wide-angle shots which transform the Institute's vast empty spaces into an oppressive, tomb-like structure, using the widescreen format to impressive visual effect.A terrific ensemble cast is headlined by David Caruso (TV's CSI Miami) and Scottish actor-director Peter Mullan (MY NAME IS JOE), both of whom give committed performances as men on the edge of despair, and strong support is given by Josh Lucas (THE DEEP END), Brendan Sexton III (WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE) and co-writer Steven Gevedon as the hapless co-worker who stumbles on a series of audio tapes which contain ultra-creepy psychiatric sessions involving a former patient suffering from split personality disorder. Memorable sequences include Lucas' unscheduled late-night visit to the Institute, where he finds himself sharing the darkness with... something that shouldn't be there; and the inevitable moment when Sexton - who had earlier declared his morbid fear of the dark - finds himself trapped in the bowels of the building just as the lights go out...Two endings were filmed, one of which involves a subplot that was dropped from the final assembly, but in truth, neither one of them lives up to expectations. The combination of tragedy and horror will still take many viewers by surprise, but one is left with the distinct impression that few of the participants were interested in making a REAL horror film, even if the movie ends up being one anyway, in spite of itself. Beautifully judged for the most part, and genuinely frightening in places, SESSION 9 is worth a look, despite minor reservations. "}{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If the potential viewer is tired of modern horror films that tends towards the loud and excessive, then it's films such as Brad Andersons' under-rated Session 9 that they ought to be checking out. In fact, it doesn't deal in much horror as we commonly understand the genre. However weary people may be of the phrase psychological thriller, that's really the best way to describe this film. For the most part, the characters are older men, there are no on screen female characters, there's no sex, and gore is minimal. The main group of men are a professional asbestos removal team who bid for, and win, the gig to work on one of those creepy old abandoned insane asylums that we're always seeing in movies. While co-writer / director Brad Anderson (who scripted this with co-star Stephen Gevedon, who plays Mike) definitely sets about to milk the setting for as much atmosphere as it can deliver, what he stresses the most are characters, and their relationships with each other. These guys don't get along too well to begin with, and things only get worse as the job progresses. It's as if the place is influencing their minds. To add to our unease, Mike finds some tapes on which a psychiatrist has recorded various sessions with a patient named Mary, who has split personality disorder. What could possibly happen when he gets to the tape made of Session 9, when Simon, one of her personalities, finally emerges? The viewer will have an interesting time waiting for the answer, while feeling the tension build in a subtle but inexorable way. The acting is top notch, especially from Peter Mullan as Gordon; David Caruso may find himself the target of a lot of jokes because of 'C.S.I. Miami', but he shows here that he really is a capable actor when not locked into mannerisms. Josh Lucas is a hoot as trouble making Hank, and genre fans will be amused by the brief appearance of Larry Fessenden, himself an actor (I Sell the Dead) and filmmaker (Wendigo). Overall, as slow burn horror goes, this is very good. It's exceptionally well shot on 24P HD video (by Uta Briesewitz) and the use of the actual Danvers State Hospital is impeccable. Genre fans who demand lots of action and gore in what they watch may find themselves underwhelmed, but if you're looking for something much more based on performance and ambiance, it admirably fills the bill. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"VERY well done, a must-see for true Horror/Thriller fans","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is quite complex, eerie, a sort of masterpiece of a very unique Horror/Thriller. Be ready to watch and listen carefully so as not to miss out on anything however it will likely leave you wanting more and wanting to watch it again. Session 9 does not spoon-feed you, it is not a cheap thrill/scare Hollywood style cop-out. It is a brilliant psychological horror/thriller worthy of high praise and there is plenty of further room for one's own theories and conclusions to discuss in the IMDb forums. Or not discuss at all as it may leave you shocked or fulfilled. Each viewer will inevitably have their own opinion. Thoroughly enjoyed being pulled into this film and it should be considered one of the best for its unique genre. "},{"Title":"Session 9 is to horror what Mohammed Ali is to boxing.","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all... Session 9 is not for weak hearted. Not because its a gory flick or a blood splattering feast. Its because it gets under your skin and make you cringe for breath. As a hardcore horror fan, i don't remember the last time when a horror flick had this effect on me. I think it was The Ring. But this movie exceeded my expectations. In an era where horror movies are mere blood splattering gory flicks, here come's a movie which will twist your mind, gets under your skin and stay in your head for years to come. The setting of the film, cinematography, the ambiance, acting all are pitch perfect. The background music itself is creepy enough to give you goose bumps. Movies like Session 9 are the reason why i love films so much. "},{"Title":"This is probably the scariest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is the epitome of a psychological horror thriller. It has all the elements to make it worth watching; there is constant suspense because there is clearly something going on with all of the characters but the viewer doesn't find out until the very end. It has superb twists that make you question everything you've seen leading up to that moment. And the terror is unreal. My heart was pounding most of the movie. I suppose only the simpletons who enjoy movies like Insidious or Halloween would find this movie dull and boring. It kept me on my seat. The story is genius, and how it reveals itself in the end I will never forget.Disturbing, terrifying, and brilliant. And Stephen Gevedon certainly isn't bad to look at either! "},{"Title":"Great Film With A Few Gaps","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is about a group of asbestos removers hired to do a job in a week. fairly simple setup. what instantly got me into this film was the real-ness of it, the characters were not cliché at all, and i was eager to see what was going to go wrong. a few reviews read 'boring' but i think it was a form of suspense in the sense that we know something 'scary' is SUPPOSE to happen, and when it doesn't 40 minutes into the film, your not bored - your even more creeped out knowing something is about to happen - and it does. this film had me constantly trying to figure out why everything that was taking place was. in my opinion, nothing was wasted, every set of dialog had a point and a reason, and while i was sitting there going 'what does this have to do with anything?' at the end i was going 'that was genius!'...the parts with the peanut butter jar and Mike listening to the tapes in the first place were perfect examples, while they are going on, they seem irrelevant but nonetheless interesting, but at the climax, they were necessities.this film will genuinely creep you out. the scene where Gordon is talking on the dead cell phone was the best in my opinion. i wasn't extremely scared at any point, but i had goosebumps for long periods of time. the plot is in my opinion, amazing, and the idea is original. after the film you are thinking about the ending and why everything turned out the way it did, it's a thinker's film.the only downturn of this film is the poor cinematography and the room for improvement, i would have like to seen the scene where he kills his wife and kids, although i can imagine it. and the dialog was fairly bland at some parts. but overall great movie "},{"Title":"I'm not sure...","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This stank of The Shining, but on reflection I'm not sure whether that's a good or bad thing.  *Spoilers* Creepy in places, but far too many liberties taken with the characters - one who's afraid of the dark (sic) , one failed-laywer-turned-Hat-Mat cleaner (as you do!) with an insight into the history of the asylum and enough time on his hands to track down files, read case notes and listen to the Session recordings; the one who stole the other one's girlfriend.  And I don't think the script helped much as some of the group bonding scenes aren't really up to much (is Haz-Mat cleaning really THAT intense??)Maybe I missed the point here, but I'm struggling to make much sense of it.  Man enters building, gets possessed by nasty spirits, kills everyone. Is it really that simple???Having read some of the alternative views on the movie I think I might watch it again.  But only might6/10  "},{"Title":"Oh well.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My spelling stinks, so please overlook it.There are some real creepy moments in this film, but ultimately, it's a poor man's Shining. Big scary vacant place, crazy people from the buildings past lives effecting the soon to be victimized, limping insane guy talking to dead people and seeing things and then going to town on everybody. Aside from the sweeping views of the property throughout the film, the other undisguised similarities don't come out in full until the climactic ending, which then turns out to be so-so. Once you realize how similar Session 9 is to The Shining, it's a big let down. It's not really possible to do Kubrick better than Kubrick, as you probably know. The story is one thing, but the overall style is another, and Session 9 really can't compare. Nevertheless, I wouldn't say it was a total stinker, there were many scenes that I was cringing at, but I hated the obvious copy catting. Oh, and David Caruso, who I liked in NYPD Blue, is a truly one note Johnny. Must he speak between gritted teeth in every scene?  "},{"Title":"A true scare.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First, and foremost I would like to say that anyone who agrees or disagrees with my comments on this film, please send me an e-mail.Now, if you truly want a horror film that is going to haunt you, and make you think for many, and I mean many years to follow watching, than you must see this film.First of all, this isn't a slasher film where if you want to see someone lauding himself in blood and guts while amazingly evading all capture sort of movie. This is not Freddy, this is not Jason, no, this is the actual human mind.The killer in this movie is just an average person who is affected by his own psychological breakdown. A moment of such immense pain that can at any moment effect any of us, at any time. It deals with the true mind behind murder. The true reason behind a lot of sadistic destruction which some people neglect to recognize. Ourselves, and out intolerance of pain.This movie hosts a truly amazing backgrop which even as the film progresses has the viewer creeped out by the backdrop alone. Through out it you find yourself wondering if there is even murders going on, or if this is all the imagination overused by somebody illicited by such a creepy backdrop.The director and writer are both amazingly synchronized in creating a horrific story, and backdrop in order to carry out this grizzly tale. One finds themself wondering if such a beast exists within their own minds inner sanctum once the movie has unravelled to show its true colors.I would not classify this movie as horror, but more of a psychological thriller, as any psychiatrist could watch this movie and say, yes, I have dealt with patients such as this. This movie shows the true motive behind grizzly deeds, so much so that the viewer finds themself having nightmares, or perhaps even just random thoughts about it even three years after watching. Such as myself, who first watched it back in 2001, and even today in 2004 finds myself going back to the events which transpired in the film and saying, wow, this really happens.The bad comments I have found on IMDb have said the film is confusing, whereas I can not find anything confusing about the film at all. Even using the name of Simon to describe the bad in every living being is amazing, as it gives hint to an old game that everyone is familiar with, Simon says. Where in this, Simon says, and you must do.The acting is bleak, and leaves you with a sense of despair, as well as impending doom even from the beginning. The sets are dark, damp, and creepy, making you realize that this place is not only driving our killer more and more insane, but also the people he is working with. You find yourself questioning .. just who is conducting these disappearances, and why is it happening through the movie.*Possible spoilers*The scenes with Gordon speaking on the cell phone with Wendy show you that Gordon is just an ordinary man, in love completely with his wife and child. Yet it shows you that like anyone, given a moment of extreme pain, physical and emotional, a man can have a psychological break down. Also, during the film one becomes engrossed in the Sessions with Mary where she is finally leading up to the Doctor's conversation with Simon. This shows that though it may not be Simon for everyone, everyone does have a bit of Simon within them. Even the characters who are not Gordon have their own momentary lapses into what some may come to call Simon through out the film.In the end, probably the two creepiest scenes are when the Doctor finally talks to Simon. Espescially the one line, Use your ... imagination, Doc. And then, in the final scene when Gordon has done all the deeds and is speaking into the broken cell phone to his dead wife. Those who badmouth this film are the ones who can not take a horror movie without the blood and guts. They need the one killer who is known through out the entire movie with the big knife or the big chainsaw who you know is going to kill some big breasted bimbo. This movie features no women, being a movie about a group of men only, and how they deal with the pure psychological terrors of their worse fears. A movie which deals completely in the mental state of being, rather than the physical element of Wow, I got a big knife, lemme cut out your spleen. A movie that you have to watch twice in order to truly understand, this one is also a flick which will stick with you for weeks, months, or probably even years afterwards. One that will creep the heck out of you, and leave you gape mouthed at just how it really ends.This is a movie that a psychologist could watch, and even get creeped out by how much truth rings forth in its making. The director must be given acclaim, and credit to his work, for I know that through out this film I was kept at the edge of my seat wondering NOW WHAT???. A gem, and a beauty, as I said before, this is no horror film. This is psychological terror at its best.I give this film a (A++++++).  "},{"Title":"Psychological horror movie for adults only","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love Session 9. I consider it to be the best horror movie made so far, this side of the new millennium. I never been so creeped out watching a movie home alone. It's very rare to see such fine performances by actors in horror movies. I think that's another reason why I'm so found of Session 9. This is very much a horror movie for adults. Not much violence and the pacing is slowly moving forward. Not like many of todays action oriented horror movies. There's no horny teens around either. Something that I found very refreshing to see. There should be more horror movies made directly targeted for a grown up audience. This movie reminds me a bit of Shining but more gritty and much more low-key in character. There's no humor or self awareness in this one. Session 9 is as serious as the grave. The whole feel of the movie is very eerie and really got under my skin. One thing that makes this film so original is that as a viewer one is never sure of what kind of horror movie it is. One is never really sure what kind of movie one is watching at all. This made Session 9 very unsettling. Making it much less predictable. What this film mostly got in common with Shining is that the set is the main character. Affecting the actions of the human characters of the story. You'll know what I mean if you have seen it.The extra scenes on the DVD that were cut out should have stayed in I think. Those scenes would have added another layer to this already multi layered psychological little gem of a horror movie. The scenes that were cut out was removed from the finished film because the test audience found the subplot they involved confusing. Another evidence that test screening should not always dictate the finished cut. And this is not your ordinary horror film for the general audience. I hope that they one day release a directors cut version with the scenes cut out put back in again. But it was very interesting watching them on the DVD and see how they would have added to the story. However the movie is great as it is. "},{"Title":"Excellent horror and suspense; watch it more than once...","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" there are a few nuances you may miss; this is one of the better horror/suspense films I have seen in awhile; and I love GOOD horror films, that give the audience credit for intelligence.Filmed at the old Danvers, Massachusetts state asylum (now demolished) the setting and characters in this story are interesting and curious.David Caruso, Stephen Gevedon and Josh Lucas are very good, as an asbestos abatement/demolition crew working in this haunted edifice of a hospital. Gevedon finds some old therapy tapes, and begins listening to various sessions held between a staff psychiatrist and a patient with multiple personality disorder. This was very well-written in that Gevedon (portraying a drop-out law student) briefs his co-workers on the reasons the hospital went bankrupt. Satanic rituals, false memory syndrome and fallacious child abuse scandals in the 1980's that caused many large state institutions financial hemorrhaging, and eventual shut-down.The cinematography of the hospital grounds, the patients' murals, and the old hydrotherapy rooms and catacombs are amazing and ominous. There are websites now devoted to urban exploring. You will want to visit them for real, after seeing this film!. The actors were well cast, and David Caruso in particular, as an unpredictable character in an unstable setting.An also indelible performance by Peter Mullan (later noted for his performance in David Peace's Red Riding trilogy, a neo-noir about unsolved murders in the U.K., also worth viewing. Highly recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Excellent Psychological Terror.","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is a very well made horror film that is sadly little-known by people, as are many other excellent movies. This film is about a crew of asbestos cleaners who take a job at a large, old asylum located out in the woods. The place is completely dilapidated and is literally falling apart, but they take the job anyway because nobody else seems to want to do it (Hmm... I wonder why?). Tensions between the crew members start to rise during the job and they become increasingly angry and short tempered with each other. One of the crew members becomes consumed with the recorded sessions of an former patient at the hospital, listening to each one. The ghosts of the past patients then begin to make themselves know, terrorizing the workers.This was surprisingly well done horror/thriller, tightly bound with all around good performances, a unique story, and some really frightening moments throughout. The first half of the film was a little slow-moving, but it picks up during the second half and turns out be rewarding in the end. The underground tunnel sequences under the hospital were scary as hell, the viewer never knows what's going to come around a dark corner and some terrifying things take place down there. I've always found old mental hospitals to be extremely spooky anyway, so it was great to see such a good movie that is based around one. The movie was filmed at the Danvers State Hospital (which was recently demolished, I believe) which is an abandoned insane asylum that is said to actually be haunted by ghosts, and according to cast and crew, they had some strange occurrences while filming the movie. I always find little facts like that strangely interesting.To sum things up, Session 9 is an eerie, all around good horror movie. The setting was scary enough by itself, and the story was genuinely spooky. It's a little bit slow-building in the beginning, but it's worth it in the end. Well done psychological horror, definitely worth taking a look at. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrifying","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stylistically, Session 9 belongs to a class of films perhaps best exemplified by The Blair Witch Project, that is, to a class of horror movies that prefer to suggest and imply terrible things rather than show them explicitly, trusting in the viewer's imagination to fill in the details better than an effects shop ever could. This might be called the Jaws principle The shark is scarier if we never show it clearly. Stephen King talks about the same idea in his non-fiction treatise on horror fiction Danse Macabre; he calls the process of revealing the terror opening the door, and maintains that good horror fiction never opens the door all the way.Sophisticated horror audiences, in my experience, prefer films that operate in this way. Joe Six-Pack, however, when he's out looking for a film to take his date to on Halloween (preferably one that'll induce maximum groping) is likely to prefer more explicit terror. Likewise with those members of the MTV generation who don't remember the days before CGI effects. The subtle psychological horror of Session 9 is likely to be lost on these folks, and this phenomenon, I think, explains why the film is so catastrophically underrated here on IMDb. Put simply, Session 9 is--along with The Exorcist and The Shining--one of the top three greatest horror movies of the modern era.The premise is like that of The Exorcist, without all the Catholic trappings. Summed up, there are demons (Session 9 actually only seems to involve one such demon, but presumably there might be others) who haunt physical locations in the world waiting for opportunities to possess human beings. Such an opportunity occurs when a person under a high level of general stress is subjected to a sudden painful physical injury, perhaps caused accidentally by another's carelessness. During the swelling of rage that follows the pain of the wound, the demon is able to insinuate itself into the victim's psyche and, by auditory stimulation or other means, reinforce the natural and primal instinct to respond to pain with physical violence. Thus, for example, a woman whose child has recently gone missing might, if her husband were to accidentally slam her fingers in the car door, be goaded by the demon into actually strangling him to death with the seatbelt, rather than just thinking about doing it.Such a tragedy befell Mary Hobbes. As a little girl, she killed both her brother and parents with a butcher knife when, having been startled by her brother in a darkened attic, she dropped her new china doll and fell onto the shards. Once the demon had found its way in, it proved difficult or impossible to expel, and Mary was treated as a lunatic. Committed to the Danvers State Hospital, she grew to adulthood in the presence of no fewer than four personalities Mary herself, a little girl named Princess, a little boy named Billy, and the demon itself, who is called Simon. The function of both Princess and Billy seems to be to protect Mary's psyche from Simon's presence, and from the childhood memory of what happened to her brother and parents. At Danvers, Mary aged and died, at which point Simon left her body and took up residence in the hospital building itself, waiting for another victim.The events of Session 9 take place at least 15 years later, after the closing of Danvers State Hospital and the abandonment of the building and grounds. The local municipality, planning to renovate the building for use as a city administrative facility, hires a HAZMAT team to first remove all the asbestos from the century-old, decaying structure. The 5-man team, led by the staunt, likable Gordon, bids low and fast in order to secure the contract, which Gordon, at least, desperately needs to support his wife and infant daughter. Having won the bid, Gordon is in a situation that requires him to finish a tough and dangerous job for significantly less than standard wages in about a third of the time suggested by prudence, or lose his job and be unable to support his child--a child which, it becomes clear, he might not have even wanted that much to begin with. Suffice to say he is under considerable personal stress.Mary's demon, Simon, who is still haunting the hospital, senses Gordon's weakness during the initial tour of the facility and latches on to him. Later that same day, when Gordon returns to his house, Simon is still tracking him, waiting to strike. When Gordon's wife accidentally knocks a pot full of boiling water off the stove and onto his leg, Simon seizes the opportunity. Possessed, Gordon kills both his wife and infant daughter. This fact, however, is not revealed until the end of the movie, a week later.During the following days, we watch as the HAZMAT team slowly comes unraveled, succumbing man-by-man to the evil force or forces at work in the hospital. One of the team discovers, amidst the detritus in one of the rooms, a series of taped interviews between an unnamed psychiatrist and the late Mary Hobbes and quickly becomes obsessed with them. As the tapes are played, day by day, we learn Mary's story and are gradually introduced to each one of her alternate personalities, culminating, at the end of the movie, with Simon. By the time Simon's voice appears on the tapes (truly the most terrifying part of the film) Gordon, who is by that time actually possessed by Simon or something very much like him, is beginning to lose his battle to repress the memory of what he's done (which is tantamount to repressing the demon's control over his actions) and starts killing off his crewmates, one by one.The movie provides no resolution, only (partial) explanation. There is no return to order, no ultimate victory of good over evil, and no Or *did* they? ending, all of which, for my money, are refreshing departures from convention. "},{"Title":"terrific horror film - no spoilers","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 doesn't really break horror film conventions, but what it does do is perfect them.  It employs the tried and true, time honored methods of classic horror, and utilizes them to perfection.  In order to contextualize my opinion, though, I should mention that I'm a big fan of the horror genre, but oftentimes not such a fan of the films it produces.  The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is, in my opinion, arguably the best horror movie ever made, but the Night of the Living Dead series, Black Christmas, the original Robert Wise version of the Haunting, the Innocents, the Exorcist, and the Shining (amoung many others) are more my style.  Die hard horror fans seem to be so easily appeased, lauding filmmakers (like the Italian `masters') who simply couldn't cut it in any other genre because the bar for horror have always been set so low.  These fans and filmmakers gravitate towards puerile, insipid, and senselessly violent films, which succeed and propagate only in an environment of such low standards.  So for a genre with such a paucity of decent films, Session 9 is the hidden treasure we closet horror fans have been salivating for.  True horror fans dismiss it as slow or `cerebral', with none of the trademark gore and cheesy scare-tactics they've come to expect.  Simultaneously, critics dismiss anything encompassed within the genre, and so the film never generates the acclaim that it rightly deserves. The cinematography (in digital video) is freaking amazing, truly exploring the potential of the medium.  Granted, the Danvers Mental Hospital itself does a lot of the work for them, with its unnerving architecture, sorted history, and dilapidated interiors, but the camera work is so masterful in creating a sense of dread that the images alone, without sound or context, could chill your blood.  The story is simple (an essential in most horror films) and the characters are very real.  A previous review stated that the characters were unlikable, which is TRUE, though only in so much as they are realistic and flawed (which is the whole point of the movie!).  These flaws come through beautifully in the performance of David Carusso, who creates a complexly neurotic and intense character typical of his style, but none more so than Peter Mullan, who's performance is superbly realized and subtly layered.  He is a man simultaneously being torn between more than one reality - and even more so between antithetical sides of his personality. The sense of violence and desperation simmering just below his calm demeanor is really effective.  Some of his scenes, particularly at the end of the film (as he speaks through a smashed cell phone), are heartbreaking and haunting - two features that couldn't be rarer in a horror film these days. Rather than hyperbolic caricatures of action heroes or saints, these are people like all of us, from whom the most terrible demons can spring (under the right circumstances).  That is a scary thing to admit.  The distinction between sane and insane is far more nebulous than we'd like to believe. This is a story we know all too well from our own lives, not just Hollywood. This isn't to say, however, that the film doesn't have it's fair share of scares.  The scene in the basement tunnels, where Josh Lucas is being pursued by his runaway imagination, more so than any supernatural force, is one of the scariest things I've seen in a movie...  well, ever!  The director carefully crafts his story, building a sense of dread and tension to the breaking point, but never relies on the ever disappointing, predictable, and LAZY scare tactics so popular in horror movies today (how does the cat get into the closet, and why does it always jump out?).  This is a smart, effective, sophisticated, and truly creepy horror film, that is absolutely up to par with the heavyweights of the genre.  A loud noise or a sudden movement can definitely startle you, but true horror burrows under your skin and stays there.  This is the kind of film that stays with you.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *****COMPLETE AND UTTER SPOILERS***** I like how many people these days search out independent films that are mediocre at best and name them the best films of all time. Even some movies that aren't independent movies, such as Identity, suffer the same problems. This movie is one of those movies that has problems, doesn't fully deliver, and still manages to get hordes of loyal fans that will call you stupid for not liking it.Let's start with the characters. None of them are particularly interesting nor is any of the writing. They're stilted. They use typical by-the-numbers dialogue that fills in back-story awkwardly. Example (from memory, mind you) Hey, you were going to be a lawyer like your dad, weren't you? But you let him down, right? This guy is too smart to be here! The only interesting characters are Phil and Gordon and even their stories are dumbed down by an ending meant to thrill and shock! because every movie these days needs a surprise ending.The pacing in this movie could've led to a good movie. Everything feels as if it's leading up to something better. People say these thrills are psychological despite the fact that there are no real scares that haven't been committed to film before. A guy walking in a hall in the dark being scared by a figure that the guy later thinks are birds is not original at all. Nor is the plot twist.*****SPOILERS FOR THE MOVIE IDENTITY*****This is the same problem I had with Identity. The ending feels tacked on. Nothing in the beginning even matters. All of the character development (as boring as the characters ultimately are) and story are thrown out in favor of the ol' reliable multiple personality disorder. I kept dreading it when the movie started heading in that direction. I was saying to myself, Don't let this be like Identity, don't let this be like Identity... and of course, it ended that way. Not the same exact way, but similarly. The same potential for being a good movie ruined by the need to throw in the cliché'd insanity ending. The build-up to the surprise ending isn't even good on its own merits for being the whole selling point of the movie. It's slow and leads nowhere.*****SPOILERS FOR THE MOVIE IDENTITY***** Is this considered intelligent these days? The entire movie is spelled out to you in the end. Nothing is left to the imagination. The viewer isn't allowed to decipher the movie's message because it does all the decoding for you, in an ending that takes at least ten minutes to finish explaining the surprise because apparently all of those intelligent fans can't figure it out on their own. This movie isn't new.There was so much room for improvement in this movie. One area I felt was just fine was the acting. Every actor in this movie did a good job even though at times it felt like they just plucked the cast of CSI (David Caruso and Paul Guilfoyle) and threw them in the movie, even though the movie was made before CSI Miami.If you want to watch an actually intelligent thriller, watch Rear Window or Jacob's Ladder. They let the audience think for themselves unlike this sub par thriller where nothing is left to the imagination and everything is thrown away in favor of a surprise ending that ruins everything that has gone before it. "},{"Title":"Honey, I'm Home","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Brad Anderson's Session 9 stars Peter Mullan as Gordon Fleming, the leader of an asbestos removal team. Gordon's task? Strip a disused mental asylum of all harmful asbestos. The problem? Someone or something is killing Gordon's crew.Though initially confusing, Session 9 develops into a fairly straightforward horror-mystery. Due to stress, and possibly mental illness, Gordon kills his wife and child at home. These traumatic events lead to Gordan developing dissociative disorders and several split personalities. These split personalities are responsible for systematically killing Gordan's crew. Gordan's breakdown is then mirrored to the breakdown of a patient who attended the mental asylum decades ago. She, like Gordan, developed split personalities and was responsible for murder. Whilst the film implies that Gordan is suffering from a natural, psychological disorder, it is equally possible that a demon, called Simon, has taken possession of Gordan because he is weak and so able to be controlled. Some prefer to view Simon as a metaphor for Gordan's own fragilities and psychoses, others view Simon as a literal supernatural creature. The film supports both views.At its best, Session 9 maintains an air of tantalising ambiguity, Anderson constantly misleading or suggesting but never clarifying key ideas. For example is Gordan himself an ex member of the asylum? Was Gordan related to a girl whose psychoanalysis sessions play throughout the film? How much of the film is a hallucination? Are Gordan's co-workers figments of his imagination? Do the crew members conform to the split personalities introduced during the film's recording sessions? And so on and so on.Like Anderson's Vanishing on 7th Street, Session 9 makes great use of its low budget, and Anderson creates some effective, classy horror sequences. Unfortunately all ambiguity is ruined by the film's climax, which contain 2 large segments rife with flashbacks and explanations. The film is also a raging rip-off of The Shining, complete with title cards, a murderous husband, a wife named Wendy and numerous similar aural and visual cues. Thematically the films differ significantly; Kubrick's film is very much an anti Session 9.Session 9 was one of the first feature films to be shot with an HD camera. It co-stars the serpentine David Caruso.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"You think asbestos is dangerous...","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Irish immigrant Gordon (Peter Mullan) heads a company specialising in asbestos removal together with his partner and confidant Phil (David Caruso). Upon agreeing on performing a two week job within just over 7 days to renovate a two-wing derelict asylum in order to receive a hefty bonus Gordon hires additional help in college drop-out Mike (Stephen Gevedon), nephew Jeff (Brendan Sexton III) and laid-back Hank (Josh Lucas), who recently stole Phil's girl. When work commences at the old mansion a sense of eeriness creeps in, especially after Hank goes missing...Filmed with toned down colours and an apparently purposeful semi-professional fashion Session 9 retreats from the overly flashy scare tactics employed by modern-day horrors, instead offering a slowly developing sense of madness and subtle dread hiding around the corner. With ipso facto frights few and far between with minimal gore occupying screen time the focus in placed on development of characters and story. Horror isn't brought about by loud noises, camera jumps or other similar in-your-face excesses, but through a well intentioned creation of atmosphere, also helped by the gloomy pictures giving it a raw, rough feel. Music permeates in the background with a disjointed disturbing score encapsulating the dominating sense of disquiet.Acting all-round may feel awkward, but honestly much more realistic than in most horror features, where characters are mumbling, at times featuring semi-coherent diatribes of workers with little interest in talking about emotions. The overall basicality permeating through the screen offers a much needed respite to the repetitiveness in the genre, albeit the general satisfaction from the story and its twisting turns is only mild with little in terms of a climax, offering instead a chilling, but underplayed, revelation. Just to finish on a downer that further explains my cut grade - for a bunch of guys supposedly working their buttocks off our five man crew sure do have a lot of time for aimless chit-chatting and wandering along corridors. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly effective and genuinely frightening 'ghost'/psychological-thriller story, Session 9 is good, creepy fun...","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Brad Anderson's 2001 horror/thriller release Session 9 is a film that snuck up on me. I had never heard of it, at all. Then, about a year back, I saw it on an internet list of underrated horror films, and heard some good things about. Soon after, I saw the film referenced again, on a different website, which equally gave it much praise. When I stumbled on a third reference to how good the film was, I decided to check it out myself. I loaded it up on Netflix and started watching with a small group of friends one night... And I'm glad I did. Session 9 is a genuinely (and surprisingly) strong, developed and frightening horror/thriller, and it should not be missed!Gordon (Peter Mullan) and Phil (David Caruso) head a hazmat cleaning team, who get a job to remove asbestos from an old, abandoned mental institution. Despite the job requiring a realistic 2-3 weeks to complete, Gordon promises that the job will be done in one week, in order to get the job from a competitor, as he needs the money for his wife and newborn child.Along with them are Hank (Josh Lucas), a nasty man who stole Phil's girlfriend, law-school dropout Mike (Stephen Grevedon, whom also co-wrote the film) and Gordon's nephew Jeff (Brendon Sexton III), a slacker kid.At first, it seems like an ordinary job, although the atmosphere of the hospital (including graffiti and abandoned rooms still adorned with decorations and possessions of former inmates) and some strange noises cause some suspicion from Gordon. As the film continues, Hank soon vanishes after attempting to steal a cache of stashed coins and jewelry he finds in the walls, and uneasiness and paranoia grow between the men, whom are all overworked and worrying about one-another. Mike also spends his time obsessed with old audio recordings of therapy sessions from a former patient suffering apparently from dissociative identity disorder (which is where the title of the film comes from- there are nine recorded therapy sessions), which may hold a key to what is happening.The film works amazing well, considering most modern horror films fall back on gore, CGI and clichés too much, which are avoided in this movie. It feels very fresh. The characters are all extremely well established and developed, and it feels very grounded in reality. You truly do care about everyone, and they all feel like real, honest-to-god people.The acting is also generally good. Mullen is very sympathetic as Gordon, and Caruso covers a lot of ground in his performance, although he does get a little hammy at times. (Including an infamous scene where he swears at Gordon, which is pure cheese, as it is overplayed way too much.) Visually, the film is very atmospheric and elegantly presented. It is a well-directed film. Although it does feel cheap- it was obviously an early digitally-shot film, and some shots have that slightly-too-smooth video look that digital features get sometimes when the cameras and lighting aren't perfect. (More recent digital features have mainly been able to fix this problem, and look almost identical to film, if not better in many cases, but I've noticed it in some digital movies from the early 2000's, before better cameras became available. Although this complaint is more of a knit-pick.)The film is also very mysterious. A lot of strange, seemingly paranormal events occur, although the film never explicitly acts like a ghost-story or haunted-house feature. (Which is why I put ghost in quotes in the title of this review.) The film presents us with a situation, and we are left to interpret whether the film can be explained by natural, earthbound phenomena, or whether the supernatural is to blame. It is left wide open for interpretation.There are some minor problems with the film, however. Like I said, the acting gets a little hammy here and there, and at times, I question the choice of shots Anderson picked for the film. (Like I said, some of the shots have that artificial-digital look you get with early digital features, while other shots are a bit... too blatant and silly-looking, including a funny zoom-in on Caruso during the aforementioned hammy curse-out scene.) Also, a few pieces of the story do get a little muddled, and some of the dialog and scares feel slightly forced. (Particularly the audio sessions Mike listens to, some of which are truly chilling and eerie, while others are goofy and a bit over the top.)However, I really cannot condemn the whole film for these small errors. All-in-all, this is a superb (though slightly problematic) modern horror/thriller with a lot of mystery and some of the most frightening sequences I've seen in a long time. This has potential to go on to become a cult-classic horror film.I give this a strong 8 out of 10, and would recommend it for fans of horror, or for anyone who wants a scary, fun ride. "},{"Title":"Old school horror at its very best","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An asbestos crew win the contract on a derelict insane asylum by promising to complete the job in one week. Led by gritty and grizzled Scot Gordon Fleming (Peter Mullan) and his apparent business partner Phil (David Curuso), employees Mike and Hank - both weary of their bottom-feeder jobs and wishing for something better - and new-guy Jeff set to work on the promise of a hefty bonus at day zero.The countdown begins, with the movie divided into five parts and five days. At the same time a count-up occurs as Mike (Steven Gevedon), a wasted law-school drop-out and intellectual, finds a bunch of old DAT tapes labelled 'session 1' thru 'session 9' while poking around in one of the asylum's abandoned offices. He discovers that each spool contains the recording of a therapy session (more of a psychiatric interrogation in fact) between a nameless doctor and a patient called Mary. At every opportunity Mike slinks away to the office and wastes a little time listening to another spool, the contents of each session revealing some necessary exposition through the creepy alternate personalities of Mary.The simultaneous count down and count up are an interesting device, creating a sense of inevitable collision between the two and an underlying metaphor for schizophrenia. The name of the film and our knowledge that the crew have exactly five days to complete the job means we're left in no doubt that some kind of climax is approaching.Session 9 is an intelligent screenplay that draws on cinematic greats like The Shining, at the same time presenting the viewer with something entirely unique and genuinely horrifying. Here the essence of a fly-on-the-wall documentary is captured without resorting to the home movie camera or the literal documentary crew. The screen becomes a window into reality and we as viewers find ourselves strangely invested in the mundane aspects of the asbestos work. Yes, the asylum is creepy. Yes, there's obviously something dodgy going on. Yes, we're fretting more about the fact that Hank is taking another cigarette break than we are about any of that horror movie stuff.So the interplay between characters here is very realistic, the script placing us at the heart of a tight knit unit so that we feel both warmed by their comradery and as adrift as the mullet-sporting Jeff (Gordon's nephew and newcomer to the job played by Brendan Sexton III). For the first fifteen minutes of the film we forget we're watching a horror, our attention fully focused on understanding the dynamics between each member of the work crew.An underlying sense of dissatisfaction runs through each personality, be that a dissatisfaction with the monotony and dead-end nature of their profession, dissatisfaction with home (new father Gordon is finding life as parent exhausting and there are obvious issues between him and his wife Wendy) or dissatisfaction with failed love affairs.The result is a lacklustre focus on the job (despite the lure of the bonus), plenty of atmospheric tension and the unshakable feeling that nobody really wants to be where they are.This is no fast-paced jump-in-your-seat gore fest, so fans of Freddy, Jason, Pumpkin Head and all other campfire killers need not apply. That said, there are some real heart-stopper scenes and a fair measure of gory detail in its rightful place, but the movie doesn't rely on these for momentum. Nor does it depend entirely on the set piece of the asylum for establishing a creepy atmosphere (though the building doubtless does its part). This is no mindless haunted house or shaky-shoulder-cam ghost hunt but a clever and suspenseful study in horror at its absolute best, designed to keep you guessing until the end.There are a few negatives. Given the tremendous build up, the end lacks conviction and the stories of characters in whose ongoing roles we have invested a fair amount of emotional empathy are not concluded with any degree of restitution or fulfilment. There's too much reliance on flash backs, amnesia and subtle exposition and not enough intertwining of the two tales - that of the asbestos crew and that of the patient Mary. Sure, the grand finale tries to address that issue, but by then it just feels like too subtle too late. In short, the equilibrium reaches a dead point and never really recovers.More glaringly, there's a certain degree of slothfulness about the film, which isn't helped by the constant procrastination of the protagonists(utterly at odds, by the way, with the idea that they are working harder than they've ever worked before. If that's the case, I'd hate to see them on a slow day). At points the film is barely ticking over and risks losing the viewer's interest. It never quite slips over that brink, however. There's something unquestionably compelling about fly-on the wall documentaries, after all. You simply can't turn away, even when you want to.Overall, the negatives are buried under an avalanche of positives, most of which are character driven. From Caruso's spooky portrayal of Phil to Mullan's heartfelt pathos and disturbing sense of doom. Characters with depth are something about which Hollywood horror seems to be in denial, so this is a welcome relief.If the relentless tide of blood-drenched zombies, CGI monsters, cabins in the wood and axe murderers have left you hungry for something more, Session 9 is good hearty fare. Highly recommended for true connoisseurs of horror. "},{"Title":"a deeply disturbing masterpiece of psychological horror","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Horror movies started to make a serious comeback as the new millennium progressed, and mostly remakes of classic films highlighted with much more graphic and intense violence filled the theaters. Session 9 is a film that goes beyond the physical and dives deep into the psychological. If you are a fan of horror films that do not offer the conventional gore and mayhem, but penetrate you to the very core by examining the horror hidden within the human psyche, then you'll watch this again and again.Gordon (played perfectly by Peter Mullan) and his asbestos clean up crew get the highest bid by compromising safety and sanity to finish the job the fastest. The job is a gigantic closed mental hospital that was known for its use of the lobotomy and other experiments in the 1940s. The hospital slowly manipulates each of the men by drawing them in from their deepest fears and curiosities. A cleverly written screenplay features T.V actor Stephan Gevedon as a failed law student who is led to find an old reel reel tape recorder and the recordings of 9 sessions of a doctor and his schizophrenic female patient. He becomes obsessed with the recordings as they unravel each of the patient's personalities. The ninth and final session reveals the final personality that calls itself Simon. Meanwhile, one of the crew begins murdering the others. Not to give away who Simon is, or who the killer or killers are, but the ending is a brilliant final piece to the puzzle. Everything about this film is uniquely disturbing. Hats off to Director, Brad Anderson for his terrific use of lighting, sound, and subtlety that just really gets under the skin and stays. The huge abandoned hospital in Massachusetts is so creepy just in itself, and the set design effectively creates mood and negative atmosphere. The uneven blend of sound effects induce such fear and tension. The blips in the tape recordings, distorted voices, chirps, drips, and creaks all contribute to a sense of discomfort and paranoia. This is psychological horror at is very finest! This is not just a disturbing look at a haunted hospital with a past, but a portrait of a part of the human unconscious that is capable of evil. its interesting to see the characters fall victim to their curiosities and inequities all confined within the walls of the asylum. The cast handles it well playing believable characters with common issues, and Mullan, (who's scene at the end talking on his broken cell phone to his dead wife still gives me the chills) is excellent. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys an intelligent, mind-bending, truly disturbing movie with an interesting look at human nature and evil. The DVD has a good making-of documentary where the actors discuss the film and incidents on the set. "},{"Title":"Has a tone and atmosphere unlike any other recent film....","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had been hearing about Session 9 for a while now, and I finally decided to give it a go.First off, I have to say the film has incredibly nail-biting atmosphere. There were actually not that many 'scary' scenes, but it was what I feared would come. But don't let that fool you- this is a film that I will be afraid to think about when I go to sleep. The sound effects are incredibly tense and very creepy, to the point that they are disturbing. Certain images in the film are sure to stay with me for a long time. As far as plot goes, like I expected, I knew there would be a twist at the end, but the film does so many different things with itself that I never knew how it was going to come. When all is said and done, the actual twist isn't even all the surprising, BUT the final 20 minutes getting there are very, very tense and I could not look away. I also want to give a shout out to Peter Mullan, who gives a fascinating performance here. He is the driving force of the film. Also, the cinematography, editing, score, and sound make this perhaps one of the creepiest and unsettling films of its decade. I look forward to rewatching this. "}{"Title":"Scared me speechless","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I list The innocents and the medusa touch as two movies that genuinely freak me out and routinely recommend to people asking for a scary movie. A third could be the exorcist and dead of night. the difference between all of these and Session 9 is that I CAN WATCH ALL OF THE AFOREMENTIONED AGAIN.SESSION 9 scared me to the point of actually feeling physically sick. I have only seen it once and have not been able to see it again since.I too, know MA from school days and thought it was a joke when told there was a mental institution actually named Danvers (As in Mrs. Danvers?,I laughed nervously). Just the fact they filmed the picture there was enough (I understand the building had to be demolished, the construction over it mysteriously burned down in 2007, but they managed to erect luxury condos on the site. Good luck with that).Back to the movie.(slight spoilers?) The sense of building dread and tension, the discovery of the tapes, the vanishings, the catacombs,the relics and bits and pieces of inmates found, the history and stain of the asylum itself would have held my interest.With the addition of Mary Hobbes' sickening story (the evil that men do--note props symbols et al as well as link to Bloody Mary and the mirror legend) and lastly Simon, truly one of the most disturbing villains burned to celluloid, Session 9 had me looking over my shoulder in daylight hours.(end slight spoilers) Did I say I haven't seen but not forgotten it since? "},{"Title":"An excellent independent horror","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is an example of brilliant film making on a small budget. It uses a great location, excellent acting and beautiful elegant camera work to create a much more disturbing atmosphere than the majority of modern horror which rely on cheap thrills and special effects.If you get the chance check out this master piece and watch it how all good horrors/thrillers should be watched - Alone and late at night.I especially recommend this movie to upcoming film students as a perfect example of how skill is mightier than the budget. This film is an absolute credit to Brad Anderson and the team. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I live in the weak and wounded ... doc","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Three things acting, cinematography and script. That's what makes Session 9 cook along like boiling pasta water. Come to think of it, aren't those the things that make all great movies work? Acting &#151; Everyone is top notch and David Caruso does not lick his lips even once. So much of this movie depends on what we can read in people's faces. Consternation, worry, dread and finally stark fear.Cinematography &#151; Director Brad Anderson and his crew use the camera like a magician using his wand. Deep focus puts the long hallways in our face. Also, most of the movie is shot in broad daylight, including the entire ending, without lessening the scare factor.Script &#151; Somethings are known up front, other things wait to be revealed with revelations doled out after long foreshadowing. Few movies carry such a sense of dread.S9 beats The Shining in my book because it does so much with so little. A tidal wave of blood coming out of an elevator? Think about it. What's really scary about that? In S9, the sight of an old reel-to-reel tape recorder with voices coming out of it had my hair standing on end.Guys, we S9 fans &#151; the few, the proud, the brave &#151; salute you.Now I really want one of those lobotomy thingies. "},{"Title":"A Little More History","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all I would like to state that I live in the town over from this Asylum. I have taken a tour of the grounds (only the grounds because the buildings are far too damaged to risk entry.) The true story of the Danvers State Mental Hospital was not entirely exploited within the movie plot, but it is still a very sensitive subject in our area as former patients of the hospital are still alive. There are still stories spread of people who get lost in the tunnel system beneath the hospital which are often flooded because of the changing water table beneath the hospital. It is also reported that the patients were made to dig graves as their daily exercise. None of the graves were ever labeled with more than a number and to this day many of the graves have not been identified. The specific story of the movie is fiction, but the Hospital is truly a perfect place for such a movie. It is the real life version of the House on Haunted Hill (Another horror film specifically about the horrendous things that have been done to mental patients in fairly recent times)I highly recommend this film, but as you can see real life experience has made me slightly biased. "},{"Title":"Give me another Session","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is independent filmmaking at its best. Reminiscent of Don't Look Now and The Shining, this movie is the exact definition of creepiness. Set in an abandoned insane asylum, the movie is about a five man asbestos removing crew working as fast as they can to meet a deadline in order to get a bonus. Brad Anderson creates a perfect mood with this picture. The atmosphere is eerie throughout the film and at times it is just plain chilling. It is not by all means a slash horror film, but instead a psychological creep fest that haunts you until the end. The tension is always there, thick enough to keep you guessing right from the opening shot of the movie.The performances by Caruso and Mullan are exquisite and the dialogue is just perfect. We also see a cast of great actors, most of them commercially unknown, but nonetheless perfect for their roles. The movie's low budget is probably the biggest contributor to its success, replacing state of the art special effects with the art of creating a certain atmosphere which proves to be more effective in scaring the audience and creating suspense. Anderson should teach a class on how to make scary movies, there is enough trash out there to last us a lifetime as it is(i.e. Scream, I know you did last summer, 13 ghosts).This is high standard filmmaking, I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies since Kubrick's The Shining","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film doesn't use gore (for the most part) to attempt to frighten its viewers. It doesn't need to.  Instead it uses setting and visuals to creep its audience out. As did the Overlook Hotel in The Shining, and even the prison in The Shawshank Redemption, the mental institution itself becomes a character in the film.  Very rarely am I actually scared as a filmgoer. This movie downright disturbed me.  It was a shame that it did not get a wider release and was overshadowed by Nicole Kidman's awful film The Others. "},{"Title":"Creepy as hell, and smart too!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film reinvents the haunted house movie for an audience jaded by CGI. Even more unbelievably, it's a good David Caruso movie, and the true spiritual successor to the first Blair Witch. Four guys go into an abandoned asylum to remove asbestos, and get more than they bargained for. The pacing is slow at first, with more dialogue than some folks may be used to, but it pays off in spades, and if you watch the film a second time, you'll notice all sorts of little details that didn't seem relevant. The last line of the film is destined to be quoted by horror fans for years. No sex and not to much gore, but shivers aplenty. I've seen it twice already, and would go again in a second! (P.S. I was not involved in the making of this film in any way) "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is difficult recommending a horror film to someone. I find people have very different tastes in what scares them. To many, horror is a guy wearing a mask killing everyone at a slumber party. To me, that's a dumb slasher film.If you're a fan of psychological horror...SEE THIS FILM!Session 9 is up in the same ranks with The Shining. Every moment inside the Danvers State Mental Hospital was chilling. The writers actually wrote the story for the location. They could have easily filmed Mary Poppins inside that building and it still would be terrifying. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Unlikeable","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I understand that Brad came from Madison, CT, not too far east of where I sit now ... a very promising filmmaker. A viewer may make comparisons of Session 9 to The Blair Witch Project as the delivery of events is similar, and similar to that film, the characters are genuinely unlikable. Rule #1 in film-making is that if bad tidings occur to key players, the producers must make us care for them. The most sympathetic person is Gordon, who is not in control from the outset ... but we discover the reason for his unsettled state of mind - kinda. Cheers Expect good acting, a camera nose pointed straight ahead and tons of atmosphere. The fact that my wife had to stop watching it 'cuz it was too scary proves the point. Caveats Expect a film of turns not well explained, frustrating characterizations, and an improbable premise How can the crew possibly finish the asbestos removal of a cavernous facility of that size in only one week? No one in their right mind should have hired that crew - totally unbelievable. But that's not the point of the film They're there and now they gotta finish the job or lose that holy bonus. Reminds me of every contractor I've dealt with who tried to pull the wool.Saturday8pm "},{"Title":"A lot of potential to be a great movie....","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  but unfortunately it tried to do be a lot of different things and did them only adequately at best.  The asylum seems almost haunted but not really. The characters almost flesh themselves out but not really.  The movie started to be a psychological thriller at one point but not really...  You get the point.One of the biggest hindrances was the music or misuse of it.  The minimalist style used would have worked a lot better if something scary actually happened when the music was building up.  But instead, except for the last 10 minutes of the movie every time the music built up, it would just stop and nothing, climactic or anti-climactic, would happen.  It's like the climax golden twins just decides to play around with an oboe and piano whenever they felt like it, without even watching the movie.The premise for the movie really was great, but it ended up being a thriller without thrills.  Had the madness started creeping into the characters as the movie progressed; had there been a few false alarms; had some more paranormal stuff happened it really would have been a great movie even with most of the events happening in broad daylight.  But unfortunately the writers started with a great idea and never really took advantage of it. "}{"Title":"A lowbudget masterpiece","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was a long time ago since i saw such an entertaining movie. I can´t be any more exciting than it already is, and Caruso is such a great actor, the surrounding set i just remarkable, it´s fantastic that it excists houses like that still. I won´t give you anymore information about this movie, in that case i will ruin a fantastic experience. I gave it a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"best thriller in a long long time","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this was the best thriller that has been made in a long time.  it goes back to the time when thrillers and horrors were more psychological than straight up hacking and slashing.  in today's world, there is so much violence everywhere (on tv, in games, media etc) that gore simply is not terrifying. i still think some of the scariest movies are actually the movies that show very little violence.  the shining pops immediately to mind.i am rarely uncomfortable with any topic in movies, but this movie actually made me want to leave my seat i was so creeped out (but of course i didn't!!!) "},{"Title":"New Wave Horror","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was particularly fond of Brad Anderson's The Machinist, though that film was most memorable for Christian Bale's gonzo performance as a man physically, emotionally, and psychologically riddled by guilt.I came across Session 9 by accident one afternoon on cable, and was thoroughly disturbed and entertained. I didn't realize it was directed by the same Brad Anderson until the credits rolled. This unnerving film about a group of men hired to clean asbestos out of an abandoned insane asylum explores many of the same themes as The Machinist and is shot in a similarly classy and minimalist style, with camera angles and close ups of actors' faces used to maximize the suspense and build tension.Session 9 refers to the series of recorded sessions done in the asylum on a woman named Mary Hobbs who had an acute case of Multiple Personality Disorder. One of the workers comes across the tapes and begins to listen to them on his down time. The eerie sessions, made up of sound and voice only, serve as an ominous shadow story used to illuminate (or darken) the main storyline of the men and how they slowly become effected by the environment in which they work.Anderson shoots the film on digital video, and the crispness of the images work well in the dimly lit shots inside the catacombs of the asylum. The exterior of the building (modern Gothic style amidst lush green woodlands) is the most haunting setting since the Overlook Hotel in Kubrick's The Shining. What the film best displays is how an oppressive environment can impact the already unstable minds of certain individuals. As the men's lives slowly unravel from the pressure of their predicaments, Anderson masterfully weaves a tight and concise story of true psychological horror that benefits greatly from a surprisingly good performance from David Caruso, and a fantastic turn from Peter Mullan.Like most films of this ilk, I'm not so sure it will hold up that well on second or third viewings. Naturally it will lose some of its initial shock value and become subject to intense scrutiny as the viewer tries to nit-pick the clues that point to the unholy conclusion.When viewed in conjunction with The Machinist, it is clear that Brad Anderson is the harbinger of a new wave of horror films built on visual subtlety and stories of an immensely complex and dark psychological nature. He's an auteur to watch for in the future. "},{"Title":"Better than the worst crap I've ever seen","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I imagine a reviewer with MPD with the combined personalities of everyone on this board who liked this film.  His Mary personality says I loved this film because it could have been so, so much worse than it was. I mean, what a relief that it wasn't as bad as some of the absolute worst teen slasher films I've ever seen!  Billy exclaims I loved the movie because I was able to figure it out! I'm so psyched that after watching the movie only 17 times and chatting with other viewers on the bulletin boards, I'm able to piece things together quite nicely, unlike those simple-minded slasher film lovers.  This flick is for the thinking man!  Princess says Oh, the setting for this film, an insane asylum, was so potentially terrifying. Just imagine all the terrible things that did or could happen in a place like that!Well, my slightly neurotic mind wants to see movies that I enjoy - not just movies that I don't hate. Also, I have something of a life and prefer not to spend countless hours re-watching entire movies or scene sequences to understand the movie better. I'm an intelligent guy. I don't mind (and even enjoy) using my imagination, paying attention and figuring things out, even if I don't figure things out exactly like everyone else. I don't mind some lingering questions, either. However, I prefer to experience the story that the writer/director is supposed to be creating for me. If I felt like enjoying my own story, I wouldn't be looking at someone else's movie in the first place.  Or maybe I'd be happy with a film that just panned through that scary asylum - no intrusive script or anything - so that I could jump-start my imagination. I could have imagined a script better than this one.Don't waste your time with this one. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Now that is a fresh breeze for a dying genre","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Damn, I stumbled across this movie by luck and its the one I've been looking for for quite a while. Session 9 might be marketed as a horror movie... its dark, its creepy and yes... some people die. The setting in an old abandoned hospital is nothing new but luckily the team managed to set up a real chilly atmosphere (the music and sound effects are just perfectly minimalistic and fitting) and wrapped all this up in an intelligent script that at no time gets cheesy like movies in a similar setting... the incredibly lame Death tunnel comes to mind.The story revolves around a team of 5 asbestos removal workers who score a job in the hospital and have to get it done within a week. While removing the asbestos one finds old tapes of psychological sessions with an inmate who murdered her family as a child. This and several remarks to the dark past of the mental hospital meld with the actual downward spiral of the involved. The voices of the split personalities of Mary from the session tapes go along with the dark corridors of the building, the creepy audio effects and a real interesting story that leads you into the wrong direction just to hit you even harder at the end. Luckily the end is no twist just for the sake of it but makes perfect sense and is far from a ghost story but to me rather a psychological drama. The closing scenes are gripping and depressing and the acting of Gordons character is incredible and especially heartbreaking in his moment of realization. Simons closing line just sticks in your head and Session 9 shows that its still possible to make creepy and yet interesting movies. I watched this twice and don't regret a minute... the movie is sure creepy but even more there is so many interesting hints on the dark history of psychology and what the human mind is capable of when pushed over the edge. If you love movies like Sixth sense, Shining and if you were already creeped out by photos of abandoned asylums on the web... this one is for you, you won't regret it and think about it long after the credits rolled. "},{"Title":"a great minimalist horror film","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It adds to the intrigue when going into a movie hearing both good reviews and bad--it really leaves the possibilities up in the air and makes you more at liberty to form your own opinion. Such was the case as I went into Session 9, which is one of the most subtly creepy and frightening films to come down the pipeline in quite some time. A few weeks before seeing it, I was having a conversation about minimalist horror with some friends, and how the Hollywood formula of gore = fright is completely backwards. It isn't the over-the-top, but the implied, which fuels our everyday nightmares. And by not going the excessively gory route, director Brad Anderson (The Machinist) has created a horror film that taps into things (fear of the dark; voices on an old reel-to-reel) and makes them the stuff of nightmares. The plot follows a team of asbestos workers cleaning out an abandoned asylum over the course of one week, where it becomes evident some ghosts are wandering the halls. The characters are well-defined, yet also shrouded in personal mystery that gives the story an extra richness--the blurred line between fantasy and reality and how it is perceived plays a major role in Session 9, where the ending feels like less of a cheap twist and more like the natural escalation of storytelling for a change.Patient viewers with a taste for subtler, more traditional horror will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cast upstaged by a building!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A boring film that made little sense, eliciting yawns instead of chills. The Danvers State Mental Hospital was the only star worth watching in SESSION 9. It's generally a bad sign if your human cast is upstaged by a building. Everything else has already been said in previous reviews of this film nonsensical script, poorly paced, badly  structured (the plot, not the building, LOL). The only thing I found of interest on this DVD was The Haunted Palace documentary on the history of the mental hospital... which didn't exactly make up for the price of the rental. Avoid SESSION 9 unless you like long, slow, boring dramas masquerading as horror movies.  "},{"Title":"Institutionalized","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There's the institution of acting and another of filmmaking. Both require madness, but of different types. The problem with this film is that we have too much of one and not enough of the other.Actors like the notion of possession, especially when imposed by the environment, and most intensely when it involves deceptions among fellow actors. One can contrive some interesting effects with just this, but you cannot make a film with it. And you certainly cannot make the type of film whose destabilizing motive comes from the environment rather than the character.What's attempted here is something along the lines of `Blair Witch,' where the spookiness comes from the distrust of the camera. In particular, the idea is that the narration has been honked around not only can you not trust what you see, but the hapless characters are living in that broken world. Pretty sophisticated stuff. Now in the mob that follows `Blair' these guys take an approach where the environment is taken literally. This has a long tradition. It's more than just a haunted house as a character its that the house/character has power enough to perturb the psyche, a la `Shining.' And what an opportunity this old building offers! But watch what they do with it. In such situations, the building is supposed to have eyes and those eyes are both shown to us and somehow mixed with our own eyes. For a good example of this sort of building-god see the recent, clever `Attic Expeditions.'`Session 9's' original script did this through the surrogate of the homeless woman, who ultimately claims the soul of the person `created' by its magic. She sees and is seen. She collects parts of them to add to her environment. She manipulates the discovered trove. She stands in the film projection booth at the end (a direct quote from `Cinema Paradiso'). Because the film has problems, all this was excised. But the problems are that the director never understood the space, never situated the evil properly in the space. An example of a cinematographer who knows how to do this is Gilliam's man, Roger Pratt, who just made an architectural film out of Harry Potter's Chamber.Nonetheless, the film didn't read, so instead of fixing it to take advantage of the space as demon, they just cut out all the intelligent stuff and left all the actorly stuff. Now it is just a workshop.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Ultimately boring","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am someone who enjoys film, horror in particular. I am one of the few people I have met who did actually enjoy THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, so I feel like I have a pretty good tolerance level for the deliberate pace of some films to set a specific tone. Session 9, however, went past slow into just downright boring, with a spectacularly unsatisfying ending.SESSION 9 never truly drew me in enough to care about the outcome; I felt no connection with the characters. The attempts at characterization were better than some recent movies I have seen (ALIEN VS PREDATOR's scientist-guy-with-a-camera-talking-about-his-kids springs immediately to mind), but still felt thrown together and half-assed. There just was not enough background to keep me really interested in what was happening to these people, and too few really creepy bits to keep me interested in the outcome. I only watched to the end to get what little closure there was to be had, and because it had been recommended by a friend whose recommendations are usually spot on. Only the voice over of the Simon character had any potential for scares, and by the end it is too little too late.This might have been a truly effective little thriller, with the aid of a serious editing. As it stands, the scares are very much few and far between.  "},{"Title":"Seems to be the best horror film available!","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This gritty film draws you in immediately and keeps you simmering until the end. It has an excellent balance of pace, plausibility and tension.The acting is very good and the various characters are interesting. There are a few light moments but the pervasive melancholic atmosphere never lets up. The camera work is solid with some nice slow-panning shots of the compelling interior of the institution. The unsettling atonal music is a great compliment to the film too.Some say it's a supernatural film but I don't agree with that interpretation. I prefer to construe it as a cosmic horror firmly based in reality a nervous and mental breakdown that could happen to any of us at any moment. And then who knows what we might do, doc?This is a no nonsense yet subtle film. A psychological horror that digs into the mind after the film has ended.A must see film. "}{"Title":"session 9","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is the type of movie that keeps you interested throughout the whole film. It keeps you guessing/wondering what is around the next corner. Always wondering what the characters will do or come across. The fact that this took place at a real mental hospital makes it all the more creepy. I was surprised that a low budget movie like this could keep my attention through the whole film. When your watching some of the characters walking in the dark tunnels just anticipating whats going to happen next keeps you on the edge of your seat. all in all i would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to watch a decent horror movie that keeps you guessing. "},{"Title":"Hello Simon","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the movie Session 9 five men are hired to take out asbestos from a mental insane asylum they discover that not all of them are who they seem to be. Longtime friends and leaders of the group, Gordon (Peter Mullan) and Phil (David Caruso) they bring in three other guys to help finish the job quickly. Gordon's hired help Mike (Stephen Gevedon), the law school drop-out, Hank (Josh Lucas), the hopeful gambler, and Jeff (Brendan Sexton III), Gordon's dunce of a teenage nephew. The work goes on as planned until Mike discovers a series of tapes belonging to a patient named Mary Hobbes. In these tapes Mary is being interviewed by a psychologist. Through the interview Mike finds out that she has four personalities within her. All of Mary's personalities refer to Simon. Simon is Mary's dark passenger and has made her do some things she has blocked from memory. The following days the men become increasingly paranoid with one another and start suspecting that somebody has homicidal intentions. The main theme throughout the movie is trust. The men constantly are suspicious of each other without knowing exactly what to suspect. This being said I think director Brad Anderson's main message is to not take trust for granted. A secondary message coming to light towards the end of the movie is the idea that everyone has a little Simon in them. I thought the hospital was very creepy. Everything in the building was dingy, rusty, and falling apart, similar to what was happening to the cast of the movie. Throughout the movie there were a few rooms filled with pictures from the residents. This was known as phototherapy. I really liked how the movie made sound cues when something malevolent was discovered by one of the casts. I mainly picked this movie because it focuses on psychology and I find that very interesting. "},{"Title":"Don't worry, it picks up.","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I first started trying to watch this movie, I was really turned off by how it seemed to be a Made-for-TV movie. Poor quality, poor dialogue, poor production quality, etc. It all seemed to be a set-up for what would surely be a poor movie. Boy, was I wrong. Once the movie got going, it didn't stop. I watched it on NetFlix and kept pausing the movie to check Facebook and relax because it made me so tense. It is one of the best horror movies I've seen in years. The twist ending was flawless, just perfect. I can't say enough good things about this movie. Clearly, to me, the only drawback was the slow start of the movie, which really came off like a bad Lifetime movie except everything was even more depressing and dreary...if that's even possible. The movie gives just enough detail about what's going on and what could be happening, but not enough to completely give away the ending. It's just the right movie to get your significant other clinging onto you until you have to pry them off. Clearly, first impressions aren't everything, and I think anyone looking forward to being worried about what might happen to you when you walk across the room to turn the light back on will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Your biggest enemy is yourself","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This review contains spoiler, please do not read it before watching the movie.The story starts with two friends accepting a job of removing the asbestos from an old, closed up mental hospital within a week. This doesn't sound quite feasible as the complex is huge. Really. The idea of this let's-do-it-in-a-week thing is coming from Gordon, who seems quite tired because he and his wife have a baby girl. His friend Phil (Horatio from CSI Miami) agrees finally as the job will bring them a big bonus if they finish it on time. After being shown around (by Capt. Jim Brass from CSI, it's pretty funny watching the two CSI guys right next to each other) they bring their team, and start the job. Things are happening quite slowly and some strange things occur and we all feel that something is not fine. A first guess could be a dead-patients-ghosts-are-coming-back cliché but some voice recordings of sessions with a multiple personality disorder patient found by the law school dropout Mike gives us a pretty good hint that the creepy things are caused by a member of the team and the circle is tightening step-by-step.Despite the story is really slow, it is perfect for make us put the picture together. I found it a really good idea that we can hear the tapes with the sessions (solution is, yes of course, in session 9) during the important scenes. The scenery is really creepy,the characters are realistic, the story is quite well done and this movie is a very good example of the fact that you don't need any supernatural stuff to make a scary movie because people can be scarier that any other creature. (However, the closing line do have some supernatural overtone.) If you like the creepy asylum stuff but not more bloodthirsty ex-patients gone ghosts or zombies, give this one a try. "},{"Title":"Recession 1","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Firstly - pay attention, the film's quite detailed and many minor details are easily missed.The film relies on unsettling the audience, generally making them feel uncomfortable with the interior of the abandoned building, which sometimes works, sometimes doesn't.There is heavy character focus, resulting in a film where most characters get decent amounts of focus. Actually, the protagonist didn't even feel prominently featured, which is different and I appreciate it although many viewers might not.However, the film holds back information, which, if revealed, would have made the final product much worse, yet it feels like the film relies on the withheld information too much, resulting in an ending that feels disappointing. "},{"Title":"Come For The Atmosphere, Stay For The Killings","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Quite an effective piece of psychological horror. The whole thing feels like it's going to be a haunted house variant--they certainly picked a creepy locale--and then the little signals started going off in my brain that said the film was going to be a lot sneaker than I would figure out. So I watched carefully. But it's hard to pick up clues when you're scared most of the time. I did the best I could, and the mystery is not totally impenetrable, but regardless of how much of a Sherlock Holmes you can prove to be in a pinch--bring his bravery to the proceedings, not just his smarts; the film is a chiller.There's a lot of daylight. This happens in some Horror films, I notice. THE HIDEOUS SUN DEMON actually tried to turn daylight into a new fear factor, and while that film may not quite cut the mustard out in the sunshine, this film very slyly got me fearful of the well-lit rooms, and extra-worried about the few dark rooms the basement, the room with the chair. Then of course there's the moment when the lights go out when the guy with the fear of the dark is in the worst spot. Anyway, when you have a mental institution that would give Hannibal the willies you mostly show it (yuck), show it (blech), show it (what the heck is THAT?!). Then you put several troubled fellows in there clearing out asbestos. And you reveal that something awful erupted there, in sessions, long ago. Then you have someone find something sinister, and something cool. Then you make sure all the rumors to do with the creepy place just make it creepier. Then maybe someone goes missing, and the arguing heats up, and everyone seems to have a secret that they don't want revealed. And as the film makes you realize, with each day that passes, that it's difficult to tell if the edifice is warping the people or it just feels that way, you know in your heart that the blood will be near the end.So it's edgy, picking at your nerves, and it works very well without too much splatter, as many complex horror efforts do. But you can just feel that the payoff will be fairly vile, and on that score SESSION 9 delivers. This film will take multiple viewings by me to understand all the tricks and traps--where does human evil intersect with the supernatural malevolence that haunts the site of the ensuing tragedy, or are there any ghosts at work at all here?--but I certainly won't mind watching this nasty tale again. Psychological down-spiralling that happens to take place in a so-called haunted house means there is a certain beauty to the inexplicableness. The finale answers most questions, but like most horror of the mind, it's hard to say I can explain every scene now.. How dull that would be.The film is not wholly unique--and it is not brilliant in its premise; plus, the structure of the big reveal at the end, involving replaying scenes but with bits added in that show stuff that had been hidden, seems like the standard approach. A little bit of Oops, we're near the end, we will now quickly feed you the explanation. I had basically copped to where most of the trouble had been coming from--that's all I'll say--but I was still in for a few shocks when it came to the numbing details. So, can't complain too much. Well worth a look to Horror fans who like the sleek crisp tang of the modern stuff, and if you like a jigsaw puzzle (fresh from a blood-stained jigsaw, of course) then SESSION 9 will be Cloud 9. I liked it a lot and was never bored. It's a tricky, scary ooze with terrific acting smeared on the peeling paint and the cracked plaster. Mind the blood and the asbestos.Recommended to me by Fangoria Magazine issue # 300, featuring a List of 300 Best Horror Movies. SESSION 9 has a write-up done by contributor David Goodfellow (D.G.), and I was intrigued enough to get around to this film quickly. A fine pick for the List, if not a true masterpiece of Horror. Should be viewed once by any Horror fan interested in psychological horror unfolding in a creepy setting (haunted?). "},{"Title":"It's all about Peter Mullan","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a low budget film, but the Director is so good you won't know it. Unfortunately, the script is very weak. However, I guess you could say it that kind of movie a 'character study.' I mean, the movie is set in an abandon, once elegant Funny Farm in Mass, where the cast works for an asbestos removal service that has bid to get the place cleaned up in one week (for a normal 3 week job). However, they don't seem to do much work as there are many plots and sub plots about the lives of the workers and also about a past inmate.I wouldn't recommend this except for the acting job of Peter Mullan. It's the most incredible job of acting out a stressed out Wacko that I've ever seen. I came to the conclusion long ago that most actors merely act themselves for each part they play. Examples Jack Nicholson and Robert DeNiro. The audience likes them and they are successful basically playing themselves each role.Not so Peter Mullan. If he was being himself, he's be locked up in a padded cell. Well worth sticking through an otherwise slightly boring movie to see him act and also to see how the Director can be so innovative with what he had for a budget. "},{"Title":"My thoughts and opinions...","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *Spoiler alert* I loved this movie and thought it was one of the best psychological thrillers I've seen to date. First off, all the clues are there to follow if you look for them the second go around in this movie. Everything from quotes on patient's rooms (all of a sudden it will hit you) to the voices Gordon hears at the beginning of the movie, to the peanut butter jar that hank finds. This might be my personal opinion, but it seems that Gordon is mentally ill, just like Mary was in the recordings. Once you find out what Simon is (the evil identity in Mary) you can draw the parallel to Gordon. While I don't think you can read more into this parallel, it just helps explain the path that Gordon took, just as the same path Mary took to end up in the hospital. I believe the stress of Gordon's job (he's financially in trouble as he almost had to close down shop as stated early in the movie) paired with not wanting to be a father (again, stated early) led Gordon to develop a second identity that ended up killing his wife, daughter, and co workers. It's a simple storyline that uses a parallel story to help fill in what the director doesn't show us. It was wonderfully done and requires some thought, as well as a close eye and ear to catch all of the smaller points in order to piece everything together. The use of the parallel storyline can cause a lot of debate into whether or not Gordon was possessed by the Simon demon but I truly believe that the director intended to use the Mary plot line in order to explain Gordon, simply because Gordon could not explain himself. He was not aware of what he had done, thinking he merely hit his wife, when in reality, Gordon (or Gordon's second identity) killed his family. His unawareness is also shown when he calls his wife to try and talk to her, further showing his dementia. At this point Gordon has disassociated with real life and is now only seeing half of the story. The final quote from Simon is that he lives in the weak and wounded. I also do not believe that this literally means the wounded (as Gordon's burn, or Mary's scars from the fall), rather I believe that it refers to the weak and wounded mind. A wonderful thought provoking movie that used a brilliant setting to make the movie work perfectly. The soundtrack is silently eerie, but has a huge impact throughout the movie, and throughout the movie a less is more feel encompasses the entire production. It works perfectly. "},{"Title":"Not That Scary...Just Weird and Bizarre!!","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, I'd read several reviews and opinions on this movie and they all made it sound awesome and scary. I'm sorry but it failed on both points! This movie was not that scary...just weird and very bizarre! It also was very hard to follow at times and the ending is so bizarre and not very well portrayed or explained. It left you going Huh?? I had to re-look up the movie on a few sites to read what was supposed to be and possibly why.The only thing that makes this movie even remotely watchable is the superb setting and filming locations. I LOVE abandoned places to explore and photograph!! Abandoned schools are probably my favorite. But, something like the old Danvers Mental Hospital would have been superb and a diamond in the rock pile, so-to-speak, for those who like to explore and/or photograph (with respect and admiration...NOT to vandalize or destroy with graffiti garbage)!! Also supposedly finding old tapes and/or records of past patients would have been awesome to have listened to or studied as well...as my majors/degrees are in sociology and psychology. However, in reality you'd probably end up getting the crap sued out of you by family members or relatives if they found out. ;-) But, overall I was GRAVELY disappointed with this whacked out little flick! -( There are many other thriller/horror movies out there that are much more engrossing and chillingly frightening than Session 9. I'm a little ticked that I wasted $11 to buy it. Should have rented it first instead. Live and learn, I guess. My opinion is--check out all other sessions (if you will) before you ever consider 9. Ha ha ha. ;-) "},{"Title":"This is a movie to remember.","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Just finished watching this peace of art. Incredible work of directing and cinematography. The plot is developed with caution and although it's a complex story it give us all the peaces so we can join them ourselves.The tension get higher and higher until the its very end. Impossible not getting involved and even blink in the last 20 minutes.Shot on the 24p hi-definition SONY cameras - one of the first cameras used by serious filmmakers -, Session 9 has this look that seems rude in the beginning but after a while you see that is what contributes more for the creepy and trilling aspect of the movie. Nice job! "}{"Title":"One of the best horrors to hit the screen","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" What can I say about Session 9 that has not already been said? Session 9 is the kind of horror movie for people that can think for themselves. It is not the run of the mill slash hack slice'n'dice movies that we have been getting so many of lately. Session 9 is different to those kinds of films. So very very different. It begins with Gordon Fleming played by Peter Mullan, the owner of a small asbestos removal company Hazmat Elimination Company putting in a bid to clean a mental hospital that had been closed for years. Incidentally the building they used was the old Danvers Hospital, now since torn down. Gordon wins the bid and and his team which consists of David Caruso - Phil, Stephen Gavedon - Mike, Josh Lucas - Hank and Brendan Sexton III - Jeff who is Gordon's nephew. As they start to clean out the asbestos from the building, they begin to start quarreling among themselves. The tension builds and then Mike finds some tapes of patient 444 and begins to play them. I don't want to give too much of the film away here simply because this is something that has to be experienced for oneself. The atmosphere and tension that the director, Brad Anderson manages to build in the film is spot on. This movie is not about blood and gore. This is not a movie that will satisfy those who expects lots of violence and torture. This film is subtle and has a slow moving pace that works to build the tension to a rather shocking finale. There are many under currents in this film and many unanswered questions as well. This is a movie that wants you to use your brain, it has no pat answers for the viewer and actually deserves more than one viewing. It refreshing to see a truly atmospheric and cerebral movie in a time where all the horror genre seems to consist of visual grotesqueries and not much else. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is perhaps one of the most underrated and unknown psychological horrors of all time. From the very beginning, the atmosphere is set perfectly and the asylum is an excellent, truly creepy setting. Session 9 is not a slasher film and doesn't feature traditional (and corny) jump out scares. The real scares come through the patient interview tapes that one character is listening to throughout the movie. Really listen to what they're saying in the tapes; it'll make your skin crawl. The true horror is really how sinister and evil it is on a deeper level than just Michael Myers and Leatherface slashing up horny teenagers. The one disappointment I had with this film was that when it was over, I found myself wishing that there was MORE to it. With such a scary setting, I felt that A LOT more could have been done. The basis of the story IS disturbing, and I felt that it was not addressed or developed enough. I wanted to know more about the asylum and its patients.Overall, Session 9 will disturb you. Although not developed as much as I would have hoped, it gets the job done where some parts will really leave your hair on end. "},{"Title":"Never settles for a quick Boo or a cool visual. Brilliant","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 takes place predominantly at a long closed mental hospital, and basically follows five characters for 90% of the filmGordon &#x96; The Boss. Phil &#x96; Longtime mate of Gordon. Detests... Hank &#x96; Larrikin who dates Phil's ex and reminds him often. Mike &#x96; Smart guy slumming it with manual labour. Jeff &#x96; Gordon's nephew. Typical young dumb kid.They are an asbestos removal crew cleaning up the hospital, bagging the job by undercutting their rivals - and perhaps overpromising with the timeframe.Most movies show everyone as buddies, they're all the same age and never argue. Anyone who has worked in an office or workplace with more than a few other people knows this is rarely the case.After we meet the crew the film moves day by day, so will I.MondayThe cleanup, the hospital is expansive so the five guys spread out, sometimes in small teams, others alone. During the lunch break they trade stories. Mike explains why the hospital was shut down. A radical treatment called repressed memory treatment, created false claims from patients involving incest, murder and even worse. Of course once these claims were proved false the lawsuits started and sent the hospital broke.The building is obviously deteriorating, power to the workers is a bit dodgy and they are dealing with old and fragile areas, the building itself is a key character in the film, and it is genuinely spooky.Mike finds a box marked Evidence in an old storeroom and starts killing time listening to the recorded interviews, over the course of the film he periodically goes back to listen further.At the end of the first day the guys congratulate each other on a good start to the job and head off, we realize that Gordon has hurt his leg but is hiding this from the others. TuesdayHank makes a find that he conceals from the others hoping to take financial advantage himself.Meanwhile Mike listens to further reels, the patient Mary is obviously quite troubled, with multiple personalities (thankfully with different voices).Anderson masterfully continues playing the interview dialogue over montages of the 5 guys going about their business, it is genuinely disconcerting at times to hear the creepy discussions when watching people who are blissfully ignorant of the situation, doing everyday things. This never got old for me.After they break for the day Hank heads back alone to further investigate his find, and once he finds the source of the stash he happily goes about gathering up the goodies, oblivious to all around him. For 40 minutes now the rising stress level has been noticeable, the chills started for me here and rarely abated until the credits rolled.WednesdayThe tension is building between the team &#x96; even old friends Gordon and Phil are snapping at each other, the deadline is approaching, and the team risks losing a large cash bonus if they fail to meet it - and Hank hasn't shown up for work.Near the end of the day Gordon breaks down and tells Phil why he has been so on edge &#x96; work pressures have spilled over at home and he feels terrible and guilty. He immediately swore Phil to secrecy. We soon find out that Gordon is actually sleeping in his van at the site, as he is too ashamed to go home.ThursdayEarly in the day Phil mutters to himself This is gonna get ugly, and how right he is.Everything from here seems more rushed and urgent, and while I was watching I was as confused and stressed as the characters to find out what the hell was going on.At this stage I started feeling anxious for the film to end so I could work out what was happening, I can think of no higher praise for a horror movie than this personally, something that is scary enough that you want it to end but still enjoy every minute of the unease.FridayWithin minutes the happenings of the previous 80 odd minutes are fully explained, and far from a letdown I found the payoff to be genuinely disturbing and above all more believable than any horror movie that I've seen in years, if ever. The only spoiler free thing I can say from here is that the credits roll and you should be very satisfied.Music is left to the most minimal piano plinking, literally three or four plinks before stopping, leaving room for the superior use of background sound and other effects. Even the hisssss of the tape reel creates a tension of its own.There are no JUMP scares accompanied by a loud unnecessary noise. The camera lingers for about two seconds longer than should be required - you never really know if there is a reason, if you are missing something or if something will still happen in the scene. Again this is a good thing, the scares are created by the tension in your own mind as you strive to work out what is happening.The hospital is old and run down, with some brilliant open spaces, underground areas and also confined spaces that Anderson takes advantage of, some great camera-work takes you through multiple areas at once seamlessly, to see various characters working nearby.Anderson realizes what is scary and then doesn't vary his vision once through the entire film, there was nothing cheap about the film, everything was well earned and carefully planned without shortcuts. Final Rating &#x96; 9 / 10. Not only the best horror movie I've seen in years, one of the best movies period. Sometimes it isn't what you see but what you don't see that is scary.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Top notch horror movie","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't listen to the negative reviews. These people probably like crap like Scream and I know what you did last summer Session 9 is high on the creep meter for me, but depends on what you like. Personally, I love the horror genre (notably the 60's & 70's) and believe that Ssession 9 leans more towards a psychological screw than your typical slash em up movie. That's why I started to dig the 60's and 70's stuff- Psycho, Mephisto Walz, Rosemary's Baby, Suspiria, Legend of Hell House, the Shining, Amityville, Burnt Offerings, Dario Argento movies, the Strangers, etc etc This is one of my favorite movies hands down. It's not for everyone & unlike other some other horror movies there's no hot model celebrities, no perfectly executed score, no overdone Cgi and no blood and guts in every scene. With Session 9 you actually have to have an imagination, it's pretty much all psychological. It also does not hurt that the place they filmed (I have seen it) was Danver's State Mental hospital which up until a few yrs ago was a real place. Like others said, it is very atmospheric. The ambiance is full of dread and suspense which I would imagine was not all staged due to the fact that it really was a creepy closed down mental hospital which the actors say (off camera in interviews) was haunted in their opinion. Peter Mullan the Scottish guy) in particular was plagued by paranormal experiences and was spooked himself that during the filming of this movie and felt like he was actually starting to lose his mind. That's what is scary about this movie it's real and fear can be a place and often is,whether it's an abandoned mental institution or in our minds. If you watch this expecting some masked psycho to jump out at you, you will be sorely disappointed. If you like this movie I also recommend the movie the Strangers, scared the h*ll out of me. Again, mostly psychological and is loosely based on true events. "},{"Title":"Subtle,  claustrophobic, and crawled more under my skin then I thought it would do","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The weird thing is that, when I had read some of the reviews, I had expectations of some really scary moments. Having seen a lot of scary movies, during the movie I felt that I didn't get the scares as I expected. I never jumped from my seat, and I can imagine that with the wrong expectations, this movie might be boring to some. But, it actually managed to really get under my skin. The overall atmosphere felt claustrophobic. The setting is absolutely gorgeous, I loved the whole eery feeling of the building. I would not like to walk through there alone, and for sure not after dark! The way it is filmed, and the realness of the characters, give this movie a very realistic feeling. The soundtrack is very subtle, giving it an even more realistic feel. Though throughout the most part of the movie not a lot happens, the tension rises every minute. That in itself is worth a big compliment to the director, cast and crew. The plot was unexpected and interesting. I like movies that don't spell it out, and this one definitely gives food for thought. I have to admit, I was pretty much creeped out by it.Today is the day after I watched the movie. And I'm pleasantly surprised to say that this movie is still, maybe even more, under my skin. I will definitely watch this one again someday! "},{"Title":"Session 9","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though I felt the film's denouement could use a little tightening, I thought this film was excellent overall. A great location (now gone), an interesting plot, and no sleep for 3 nights. Well done! If I understand the film right, the protagonist (Gordon) becomes possessed by what appears to be one particular personality-split (Simon), who is able, supernaturally, to live on in 'the weak and the wounded' either as a dominant persona (who puts others to sleep) or as one of several (depending on who hosts him - in this film we are ourselves introduced to Mary and Gordon, the former being someone who hosts other various dramatis personae, including Princess and Billy). That we know Simon lives on and possesses at will is demonstrated by the scene early on in the film where he 'introduces himself' to Gordon (introduce - to lead into).The question that haunts the film is, what if one aspect of our personalities was a host-hopping ghost, and a murderous one at that? This concept (again, if I have it right) is innovative and terrifying. Thanks for this. CA "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere..","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ..but other than that, I found it largely forgettable. I enjoyed the set location and the sound design, particularly the voice work of Mary. But I felt let down in the end. The story was built up well, but the conclusion was disappointing. I watched the movie based on a recommendation from forum I frequent. It was recommended as a good psychological horror film. Well, it certainly dealt with the psychological, but it wasn't scary in the least, nor suspenseful, nor horrific. My wife got up in the last 3rd and left the room out of boredom. I stuck it out hoping to be rewarded.It is so hard to find a truly frightening film, and this was just another in that long line of let-downs. I'm not one scared by 'jump' films or cheap scares or effects, so I had high hopes for this one. I enjoyed 'Paranormal Activity', and 'The Descent' (well up 'til the point the creatures are shown-great film prior to that point), and was hoping this was going to be along those same lines. But in the end, I found it worth watching for the great set, and for that alone. "},{"Title":"Creepy movie","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had to see this movie twice, i need did miss few thing the first time I saw.The movie about Gordon and number of guys going to The Danvers State Hospital which has been closed since 1985, after hearing that needs asbestos removal, he makes a bid to remove them, ambitiously claiming as he a owner of The Hazmat Elimination Company, a small asbestos removal company, said he could been done by two week.This movie a really Strong build up and which is also building the strong atmosphere for movie, We see the men some having some fun and messing around. one guy find coins in wall and he come back late night to get coin but next morning he no were to been seen, that when strange thinks start to happen This is has some creepy money and some weired moment which took me while to understand and i really good twist at end of the movie, you may see it coming before. The acting from the cast was outstanding.I am going to give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An Underrated Chilling Atmospheric Movie","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw his movie because it was an influence for Silent Hill 3, I wasn't disappointed. Session 9 is the kind of movie that makes your mind race as well as creep you with freaky audio-phobic noises and unsettling atmosphere.However, since this is an atmospheric movie you need to watch it right to appreciate it. Watch it without any interruption and high volume, you will get total suspense. Bard Anderson did a very good job on constructing creepy scenes without putting too much elements in it. Don't expect to see a lot of gore, Session 9 deals with psychology scare.I like the mental illness and supernatural elements in the story plot too. There are a couple of ways you can understand the plot, each related to these element. "},{"Title":"The movie is slow-moving and sparse on scares, but wow, its creepy ambiance is almost nonpareil.","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is a brilliant horror but it's not for everyone. I once screened it for a bunch of movie geeks and by the end, most of them had passed out (granted this was late at night in the middle of a movie marathon). The movie is slow-moving and sparse on scares, but wow, its creepy ambiance is almost nonpareil. The movie is about a small hazardous material cleaning crew who're contracted to clean out an abandoned insane asylum. It's set at the Danvers State Insane Asylum, which is/was an honest-to-goodness large, creepy, and abandoned asylum in Massachusetts. I love that the director/co-writer Brad Anderson didn't take the rote horror path and set up big scares everywhere, even if the setting is perfect for that too. Instead he took the path less used and created mystery and layered suspense. Right off you know that things will go wrong, and they do, slowly, with increasing levels of tension, but you don't understand why. It's a puzzle that slowly unfolds till the big reveal at the end and things start falling into place (if you were paying attention). It's a format that's reminiscent of The Sixth Sense, actually, and it's in comparison that Session 9 fails some. Sixth Sense built the mystery, but also managed to slip in scares that didn't detract but instead augmented the tension. If Brad Anderson had managed that too, it would've taken the movie to another level. "}{"Title":"Great horror film but requires some effort from the viewer","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a thinking man's horror film so if you're looking for gore and cheap scares, this won't be your cup of tea.That said, this is an accomplished psychological horror film similar to The Descent and The Shining, in that it scares you with its atmosphere and fills you with a sense of foreboding.Let's start with the setting - an abandoned asylum. You immediately know you're in for some scares but this movie doesn't do that by making you jump or attempt to gross you out with blood and guts. This is a movie that weaves a dark, intricate web around you and, before you know it, you're unable to move and waiting for the inevitable horror that is to follow.The storyline is simple but effective. Basically, a contractor (Gordon) has agreed to clear the old asylum of asbestos within a week. Gordon and his team of four men are unique, well-developed and totally believable. All of them are sufficiently likable and each of them have weaknesses, some have dreams. Gordon's nephew, for example, is apathetic and has a fear of the dark, Mike dropped out of law school but wants to return, Phil is resentful of one of the other men for stealing his girlfriend, Gordon has just had a baby and is struggling to make ends meet. It's these details that make you empathise with the five men and what makes the end of this movie so bleak and horrifying.A special mention should be given to the music, which is essential to the atmosphere of the film sparse, unsettling and perfect for a movie that takes place inside an old asylum. I also liked the image of the wheelchair (gave me flashbacks of The Changeling) and the way the tapes of a former patient, Mary, intertwine with the plot.This is a movie that may require multiple viewings because you'll definitely have questions once it's over. There are times when I didn't think things were adequately explained but, again, multiple viewings could clear up those apparent discrepancies. Overall this is a great psychological horror film and one you need shut up and pay attention to. "},{"Title":"Are you questioning my work ethic?","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The atmosphere in this film is just brilliant. The setting puts you on edge to begin with since it takes place in an abandoned mental hospital, but even deserted there's just something about the building that doesn't seem right. It's like something has infected the structure down to its core. The setting seems to rely heavily on luminescence or the lack thereof. Even when a room in the hospital is illuminated, it still feels dark. Darkness still overwhelms it like it's hiding something. In addition to that, there's the Mary Hobbes subplot that makes the film that much more disturbing. But the less you know about that going into the film, the better.While the film has a fantastic atmosphere, it seems to be lacking something to make it a superb film. Everything seems to be there as the script is good, the writing is top notch, can't complain about the acting, there's a bit of a twist in the ending that's really well done, and the film stays with you long after you watch it. The best explanation is that it had all the elements of a superb film, but it dropped the ball slightly in its execution. The pieces of the puzzle weren't put together in exactly the right way, but were put together in a way that still resulted in a good psychological horror film.Session 9 is the perfect horror film for people who like films that mess with their head. It gets beneath your skin and stays there. While the film is practically a cult classic and contains all the elements of a great horror film, it seems to be lacking something. The best way to explain it is to say Session 9 is a superb psychological horror film that just wasn't as good to me as it is to others, but that could always change with repeat viewings of the film. "},{"Title":"It'll Drive You Mental!","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't sure what to expect out of Session 9--it was a random rent at Movie Warehouse on a lonely Friday night.I couldn't be more pleased with how it turned out.This movie kept me guessing and on edge the entire time. The plot was interesting and the build up of tension was excellent. The movie left me asking a lot of questions at the end--which made me go back and watch it a second time. I like movies that still have me thinking once the credits start rolling.If you want to watch a suspenseful movie that's not cheap and actually has some originality to the plot, then Session 9 is a movie for you. I highly recommend it.But I have to warn you...it will drive you nuts ;-) "},{"Title":"great psychological horror","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is well worth viewing as director, writers, production team and actors are all oozing professionalism and savoir faire here. This film is no ordinary spooky fair. It is an incursion in the human psyche and its dark places. The ultimate horror is the realisation of how fragile our sanity is. Each character help paint a complex psychological picture which along with the extraordinarily atmospheric sets will have you question what is real or not. The film slowly builds tension and hits hard in the finale. This is a superbly written and directed film with strong performances. If you liked 'The Shining' you will love this one. Psychological horror at its best. "},{"Title":"A brilliant psychological horror film","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A lot of horror movies these days aren't very good because they try too hard and achieve nothing beyond cheap scares. Session 9 is more of a psychological horror movie and it achieves what it sets out to do. While watching the movie I was continually reminded of the movie The Shining which is one of my favourite movies and a horror classic. The reason is obvious. Beyond the characters being important the setting for Session 9 is extremely eerie. The film is actually set on the grounds of an abandoned mental institution located in Massachusetts. It's since been torn down. The exterior shots of the institution and abandoned interiors are magnificent. This is an excellent setting for a horror movie.The characters are secondary but that isn't to say that they aren't great as well. Clichéd characters are usually par for the course in most horror movies these days. I'm not a big fan of David Caruso or CSI Miami but he's quite adequate in this role.The tension is built up quite effectively. The pay...(read more) off isn't great but most of the movie is quite tense and eerie. The location alone is enough for a positive review. "},{"Title":"One of the creepiest movies ever","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" (Semi-Spoiler in the write up) Session 9 is, without a doubt, one of the creepiest, most atmospheric and unsettling movies ever made. It keeps you guessing (is it a horror movie, a mystery movie, a supernatural movie, a slasher movie, a thriller, a docu-drama, a combination of all?) and while it may start slowly and quietly it builds up and up to an ending that you probably would not have seen coming. Every time you feel you've figured it out it takes a turn and goes in a new direction, but never loses the viewer. What is happening to these guys decontaminating the abandoned mental hospital? Is it the vengeful spirit of a deceased patient? Is there a lunatic on the lose? Is it local teens just messing with them? As the time passes and the tempers flare the tension keeps building. This is one of the movies that doesn't rely on sudden shocks or blaring musical cues to make you jump, it relies on an interesting story line and developing characters (both seen and unseen). Check it out. "},{"Title":"The scariest film that everyone missed out on.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 goes back to the old school of horror films without being assertive about it. It's a movie that feels very fresh and yet is familiar. It plays out like a modern day version of The Shining, and it's fantastic. As a fan of The Shining and of its style, it's really great to see a film play along the same lines, but also be its own beast.It also helps that the film is frightening without being graphic. I love gore in films, as long as it fits the story. Session 9 could have easily become a gory, blood filled movie, but then it wouldn't have been scary. I'm glad it focused on suspense and giving you a chill rather than relying on graphic violence. "},{"Title":"This is what horror films should be.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is hard for me to think of a horror movie that I would rate higher than Session 9. The performances are outstanding, the script realistic (us working joes recognize the everyday problems that come up in the course of the character's lives), the atmosphere menacing and the conclusion terrifying. Session 9 has just a hint of the supernatural, and the director realizes that high body counts and copious blood do not equal horror. Real horror (or terror) arises from from fear of the unknown, and this movie accomplishes that. This movie is so far superior to cynical garbage like House of Wax (remake?) and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (Remake) that it is depressing to see those movies get so much more recognition. I guess T&A, voyeuristic sadism and a big marketing budget are all that matter.Note the original TCM and HOW rocked! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The premise behind this movie was scary. It certainly would explain some of the seemingly crazy things that otherwise unsuspecting people do in this world. If you don't finish watching this movie and feel a little scared by the prospect there is pure evil in the world around us, then you missed the whole point of the movie. I strongly recommend watching this movie if you are someone who enjoys a little old school horror coupled with a psychological thriller that is based in what could be more fact than fiction. You have to question your religion if you have one after watching this movie. If you acknowledge the premise behind the movie you have to believe in GOD. Yin and Yang. Excellent flick !!!! "},{"Title":"Caught this one on IFC","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have found myself watching IFC more often then not,even thought sometimes you will see a movie more than once.There are some good movies on that channel.Which brings me to this movie,Session 9.I have seen this a couple of times and found myself even thought I knew the ending,I watched the whole thing again.This was a good one.I had not seen David Curuso for a while except in that mafia cop thing he was in with Nicholas Cage.Session 9 takes place in an abandoned mental hospital,as if thats not bad enough,If I could remember all the actors names I would put them down but the actors are part of a cleaning crew that were hired to scrap clean dispose of the asbestos material in the hospital,each worker seems to have there own issues with life and the hospital,Even the youngest worker a nephew of the boss hired to help them with their deadline to make an extra $10.000.Basement to roof.One finds a room full of tapes-Session 9 -is a taped session with a split personality.The voice from the doctor and women patient on tape makes you listen to see if this has anything to do with the carnage going on.As the movie ends so does the tape,If you are looking for a movie with a good cliffhanger rent this or watch on IFC.you will not be disappointed.This one will keep you guessing and will surprise you, Does this hospital have issues with the workers.Good story,good actors,good scare.PopCorn,soda,DVD.Have a good movie. "}{"Title":"Yeah, but so what?","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A group of 5 broke H.A.S.M.A.T. workers get the low-ball bid to take the asbestos out of a huge, creepy, isolated CLOSED mental hospital in half the needed time, in this atmospheric and moody horror film which makes great promises, then doesn't deliver. You'll watch with interest as the characters get freakier and freakier, doing odd things seemingly for no reason, finding odd objects that shouldn't be there, and stressing, stressing, stressing. This is where the intrigue starts and ultimately where the problems lie. Gordon, owner of the asbestos removal company, kills his wife and baby. A disenfranchised attorney, moonlighting with the crew to pay the bills, decides to become an amateur psychiatrist and sleuth, ripping open boxes, pulling a tape recorder and files out of nowhere, and listening to tapes from a small buried box marked evidence. Why does he do that? If he were SO interested in the law, he'd still be practicing it, no? Another guy is mysteriously lead to a cache of treasure, hanging out of a crumbling brick wall, but why? You'll be on the edge of your seat, anticipating the answers to these and many other intrigues. While you're watching this it's all very interesting, well-paced and exciting, directed by the talented Brad Anderson, with a crisp Kubrick-like style. You wait for the big conclusion to pull all of this stuff together, but it sadly, does not arrive; what happens, happens. You never find out why, or what the real motivations of the characters were. The only explanation seems to be that insanity is some sort of resonating force which hangs out and soaks into the sane. The fact that the character doing all of the killing was already nuts before he began working in this horror house, seemingly meant nothing to the screenwriter. Frankly, it's not enough. It is lame. Direction is strong. The film looks great, using a new video system that shoots at 24FPS and allows the filmmaker to work without extensive lighting tricks. The result is that the abandoned hospital (apparently, a real one, although I know not where it is), is incredibly spooked-out. The cast, including CSI's David Caruso, is edgy, sharp and brimming over with method-acting tension. They clash and interact nicely. The whole film is very well paced and directed. The script needed to be more than a 'great idea', however. It needed a slam-bang conclusion to suit to what leads up to it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, and not as complicated as people want it to be","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is one of those films i go through great pains to get my hands on. It never saw an official Norwegian VHS or DVD release, and obviously no cinematic release. For a movie i know very little about, there was just something about the down to earth yet outlandish setting that really appealed to me. The trailer also teased at exploring the human psyche and what causes it to disintegrate. I knew i had to see it.From reading the other comments, i thought it was necessary to point out some issues with common interpretations of the film's central storyline. There are no supernatural elements to the story. There is no horror-flavored element of demonic possession, though it is alluded to at numerous references. Session 9 is a story of egos disintegrating under stress and uncommon circumstances. People dealing with extreme stress and the idea of impending doom in various ways. I think the best way to appreciate the film is when you completely ignore the idea of evil, and rather consider the idea of sanity, and what makes man comfortable with himself and his surroundings.The DVD commentary indicates that the director and writer were both very aware that they were teasing at the idea of a full blown horror film, but also that they were merely teasing. Session 9 hints that real horror is easier found in real life than in some outlandish nightmare, and that it might spring from less than you'd think.The second plot line, audio only, following a number of recorded therapy sessions with a multiple personality disorder patient named Mary Hobbes, floats parallel to the film's central storyline, but never intersects it. Some people seem to believe Simon is some kind of demon that inhabits the hospital, but what is Simon to Mary Hobbes could be someone entirely different to you or me. Simon is shattering anger released at the peak of a breakdown. Anyone who has experienced intense pain only to have the pain scoffed at by someone not realizing its intensity know how immediate the violent response springs to mind. Gordon's breakdown occurs as soon as he murders his family, not during his stay at the hospital. His broken sanity is obvious from the start, in retrospect. As he is burned, he slaps his wife. From then on, his Simon takes over, to keep him from having to face the guilt of hurting his family. Simon destroys any trace of what he has done, blotting it out in his memory forever. At the end of the film, as Gordon is made acutely aware of the horrible things he has done, his breakdown is complete. His mind is destroyed by guilt, remorse, confusion and self loathing. His fear of disappointment made him hurt his wife, which made him hurt her more.Those that find the story confusing, you may have been trying too hard. Most things are told flat out. There's a few red herrings but no doubt at the end as to who did what. Simon is a creation of Mary's, her way of coping with her own breakdown. Session 9 is a film of mental breakdown, not a film of possession and demonic influence. See it as a character study with a tragic conclusion, not as an allusion to the out and out horror of Blair Witch.Oh and the soundtrack is wonderfully understated. The title theme in particular (all 30 seconds of it) grabs your attention right away. The acting is uniformly good, with standout points. Really honest, down to earth stuff. Jeff's breakdown in the tunnel as the generator blows is a standout, a true depiction of panic if there ever was one. I love this film, and it's probably one of my favorite pieces ever. A great precursor to The Machinist. Brad is on to something great here. "},{"Title":"Stands tall above the rest...","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one creepy movie. It stays with you. One of the best locations ever in any horror movie. I first discovered this movie while I was looking at some websites about Danvers Mental Asylum, an actual mental asylum which was built in the late 19th century and is now closed down and boarded up (Google Danvers and check out the websites...very creepy place..Stephen King would love it). I just had to rent the movie so I tracked it down. I wasn't disappointed. But aside from the location, the movie is very well crafted, a very tense and moody film that leaves you haunted. I wish there were more movies like this being made, rather than the usual slasher flicks(which I enjoy, as well). This movie stands above the rest of the horror heap and I would recommend it to anybody who enjoys a decent horror flick. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric but ultimately unsuccessful","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A crew of workmen cleaning asbestoses from an abandoned insane asylum slowly become unglued in this atmospheric but ultimately unsuccessful film. In an abrupt change of pace from 'Next Stop Wonderland,' the romantic comedy that made his reputation, writer/director Brad Anderson uses his skilled cast and gloomy location to create a palatable sense of foreboding. (The High Definition photography is as rich as film.) Unfortunately, atmosphere is not enough. Sadly, the script is so unwritten that the characters never develop into realistic human beings, and their actions become increasingly removed from any identifiable motivation. It just didn't make any sense to me. Still, it managed to tightly hold my attention for about the first seventy minutes or so.  "},{"Title":"Deja Vu","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I really loved this movie but I have to say that it seems like a ripoff of The Shining.Not only is the plot VERY similar (5 guys alone in a HUGE run down building with a sordid past and strange things start happening) but the film style was identical.I can't say this has soured me any on the movie...I was riveted. Actually, I had seen the beginning a few times on cable without being able to see the end and finally broke down and rented it because I needed to know how it ended.I was a little let down with the ending.  It wasn't as spectacular as I was hoping for but most of the questions were answered and it almost all comes together in a relatively believable way (nothing so far-fetched that you are just disgusted).I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone...especially if you liked The Shining (the original and not the made for TV version).  But don't expect too much because you may be let down. "},{"Title":"Session 9 gets a 9","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A very scary, claustrophobic horror film with superb acting, no fake scares, and an amazing setting (The immense asylum is almost intimidating to watch). The makers of Session 9 did an amazing job at taking best advantage of an obviously limited budget. But lets be honest...there is no way in hell that the asbestos clean-up crew would be able to clean that place in one week...maybe a few months!  "},{"Title":"***.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Starring David Caruso, Peter Mullen, Paul Guilfoyle, Stephen Gevedon, Brendan Sexton III, Josh Lucas.Tends to drag but doesn't bore all that much. 5 Workers all working at an abandoned mental hospital in Danvers, notice strange things and dissapearences happening. Caruso and Mullen carry most of the movie. Sets up for a huge climax but doesn't deliver, delivers something entirely different. I give it *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Scarey but unsatisfying","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is truly a scarey film!!  There is one spot in the movie when I jumped out of my seat--literally--just like the great moments in Psycho and Diabolique (the original, of course!).  But in the end it doesn't all fit together.  The tapes, Gordon's flashbacks, the 5 men (and if you watch the deleted scenes on the DVD, it is even more confusing).The setting is superb.  I don't know how those folks filmed at that location.  Creepy!  This is not anything like The Blair Witch Project which is total sophomoric bull-crap.I just wish this film had made more sense in the end.  Like I can believe the one guy going off and listening to the tapes, but he never mentions them to anyone.  Why?  Even if he had they probably wouldn't have been interested, but it would have been more realistic.  What is the connection between Mary, Billy, Simon, and Gordon's world?  Okay, so he's as messed up as Mary, etc., but what did happen that Christmas night?  Did I miss something?  Of course, not knowing is very realistic too.  After all, imagine stumbling on some session tapes way after the fact and trying to make sense of it all.  And these were just the session tapes, not the MD's evaluations.  So that works, I guess.  But if Gordon was as Gordon is, how was he still able to run the hazmat firm?  SPOILER COMING UP........What I mean is, had he done what he did, surely the connection between his acts at home would have been discovered and he wouldn't have been able to get any closer to the incidents in the film.  Wouldn't he have gotten caught?  There was such a direct link between him and those incidents! Is this over-thinking?  Oh well, anyone who likes Jiff peanut butter and Oreo cookies can't be ALL bad, eh?-)  "},{"Title":"Simply made, elegant, and scary!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The guys in this movie have obviously seen the haunted house movies, and they probably wouldn't go work in an abandoned insane asylum if they didn't really need the money. Most of the cast was unfamiliar to me, except of course David Caruso and the youngest guy who I think was the failed shoplifter from EMPIRE RECORDS. But of course the star of the show is Danvers Psychiatric Hospital, which was born to be featured in a horror movie. Great rental value; worth being part of your horror DVD collection. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Session 9, a terror/suspense movie, seemed to be a comedy, there was no terror!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9- 95 Minutes.I had high hopes for this one, reviewing messages in this board, with people saying it was really creepy but it was very slow.When I saw it I thought I was watching a comedy not a horror or terror suspense movie. How did it get a rating of R, it should have been PG-13. There was no gore, just references about rape, and one scene about a metal object in his eye.This movie was very over-rated. The first 70 or 75 minutes was crap, the last 15 or 20 was better, but still wasnt a crowd please for me (This movie was far from being creepy, it was just plain funny, thats it.I dont like the blair witch but i would rather watch it. "}{"Title":"Good Acting and Creepy Atmosphere?","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Good acting? David Caruso wonderful? Anyone remember the point when the Gordon character was ascending the stairs after he and Caruso argue and Caruso points a Bill Clinton-esque crooked finger at him and shouts, HEY, F**K YOU!? HILARIOUS!! That entire sequence was completely uncalled for and terribly acted.... My buddy and I laughed about that one for the rest of the film.... Overall, the spooky atmosphere (very well-lighted places aren't spooky, by nature) and the brooding (read boring) story-line, were totally ineffective and all that were left were a few (very few) Wow, that's kinda creepy moments. The ending was unexpected, yet did not blow my mind as was intended... To summarize, I guess this movie just did not catch my attention and engross me, allowing me to be placed in the realities of the characters (as all effective horror films do). Call my attention span short, but this movie simply moved at too slow of a pace for my tastes. I wasn't scared, I wasn't interested, and in the end, I just didn't care. "},{"Title":"Didn't care for the ending","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was pretty decent, creepily effective, right up until the end, then it just sort of degenerated, and the ending was sort of a disappointment. There were several loose ends that were never tied up and implied plot links that were never explained. Was it supernatural? Was it psychological? What was the link between Simon and Gordon? Still, I guess I enjoyed it up until the end.I have to say, after reading many of the other viewer reviews, just because someone else doesn't read a film or enjoy it the way you do, doesn't necessarily mean they're personally attacking you and/or telling you that your taste in movies sucks. On the other had, they're also probably not asking you to explain the film to them as if your interpretation was the only one. I personally did like this film, and I do understand that it is difficult to maintain every viewer's terror level all the way from the beginning of a film until the end, I just felt that this ending was too facile, too conveniently wrapped up. Just my taste. "},{"Title":"A Palpable And Progressive Sense Of Dread","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A truly frightening movie about what happens when a down-on-their-luck work crew bids to remove asbestos from an abandoned asylum for the insane.***Highly recommended, despite plot holes and an occasional lack of clarity in the telling.  There is superb acting all around, with an especially notable performance by Scottish actor Peter Mullan (My Name is Joe) as the head of the demolition crew.  Kudos, too, for effective music and cinematography, and for a brilliant location find.There is a palpable and progressive sense of dread in Session 9.  The suspense is often unbearable.  It might have become a horror classic if not for a couple of major if only's -- the biggest being that more clarification is needed.  We are left with loose ends and too many questions (although some obfuscation may be intentional, the lack seems more a result of weakness in direction and writing).It's disappointing when clues and elements that have been dangled before us are abandoned rather than resolved.  It's even more frustrating to watch the credits roll and not know what has happened.  A Turn of the Screw type of question (e.g., ghosts or neuroses?) can be interesting, but one has to have confidence that the filmmaker is intentionally offering us these options and not just communicating his ideas badly.There are humorous gaffes.  Much ado is made over the deadline these men work under, but as the film progresses they spend less and less time working.  Again, this could have been intentional (like Jack's writing failure in The Shining), but since it is not addressed it, too, seems sloppy.  But these are minor points.Be warned that despite being a mood piece, Session 9 contains at least one over-the-top graphic scene of violence.  In what is essentially a psychological horror story, this may turn off the people who otherwise would most appreciate this film.  Likewise, I suspect that horror fans who require a lot of action to sustain their interest may not relish the long wait for something to happen.However, if you can give yourself over to the realm of the imagination, this film will definitely unsettle you.  "},{"Title":"Where do you live, Simon?","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hello Gordon ----Alienation and madness have been topics put through the Hollywood meat grinder for quite some time now. Especially in this context, what Anderson accomplished, is nothing less than spectacular. A masterpiece! Not only does the location, a deserted lunatic asylum, add to the disturbing atmosphere, but also the cast's chemistry, the way they interact, make this picture one of the most beautiful I have ever seen. There is no such thing as essential madness, but something in each and everyone of us. One of the most disturbing facts about alienation is its latency; it proliferates inside a person and then, suddenly, it breaks out. Before it happens - and somethin' is always going to happen (cf. Pontypool) - only few will recognize the signs. Michel Foucault once wrote those who can detect insanity in advance will be kings - psychiatry. But, not only does psychiatry cure people or pull them out of circulation, they did (an do) produce a culture of awareness, formatting the way we perceive the normal and the abnormal. This movie is not about that. It's about places, and people being in those places, adressing every one of us asking --- Where do you live Simon? ---SPOILERSPOILER I live in the weak and the wounded. "},{"Title":"truly the most terrifying experience in all my 31 years of life, and i doubt anything will affect me as much again","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i'm not going to write an extensive review on this film i just hope i can add another perspective on what for me, is THE most disturbing horror film i have ever seen. it will stay with you for a long time after the final credits i guarantee you that much. to further convince you i am 31 years old, the last time i watched session 9 must be at least 10+ years ago and i still haven't managed to work up enough courage to go through it all again...i am completely serious!, and be aware i am not some type of emotionally fragile person who thinks nightmare on elm street was creepy just so you know. even so i'm certain you will still get the 'no film has ever freaked me out yet' types which will make it all the more satisfying once it has been engraved on their brain (i was one of them). i guarantee you 100%! they will not be so confident after an hour and a half of this.psychological horror movies are easily the best genre especially for people who have a very active imagination like myself, although your curiosity will not do you any favours at all after experiencing this. the setting,atmosphere and the voices you hear throughout are the only 3 things that will change your perception on what you consider to be a true classic horror.nothing even comes close to it (the shining,Blair witch project and the exorcist may as well be a children's film compared to session 9) and judging by all the comments it has received i am not alone in my opinion. i actually have this stored on my hard drive for for what must be exceeding 6 months but still haven't managed to put myself through it again. a masterpiece that you will be thinking about for a long while after the credits roll. truly terrifying...enjoy! "},{"Title":"I get it - I just don't like it","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" To summarize, this movie is about six guys working to remove asbestos from a shut down mental institution. One of them finds tapes containing old interviews with a woman, who had multiple personalities, and starts listening to them. Meanwhile, the usually calm, reliable family man in the group seems to be working his way up (or down?) to a nervous breakdown.The asylum interior is kind of spooky, and there are some truly beautifully eerie shots here. So eerie, in fact, that the movie inspired the Silent Hill 3 creators, among others. Silent Hill does this good, though, while the movie had me struggling to stay awake.The idea is okay, but the production painstakingly slow and predictable. A couple of other commentators claim that this movie is brain candy, but my brain got bored after the first 10 minutes and decided that it wasn't needed to figure this one out.Here's where I start spoiling the movie - including it's ending - so if you don't want to know it, stop reading right here.There are some key things that completely ruins it for me The crew takes on a job that should take three weeks, but they promise to make it in one. This makes a good setting for a stressed environment, a good reason for family man Gordon to really snap, and it could have helped build suspense. But we never see them stressed. We hardly ever see them working. Instead they seem to take a lot of breaks, eat a lot of lunches, happy-go-lucky Hank goes sight-seeing in the basement, and lawyer-to-be Mike spends a lot of time listening to old tapes. So the general air is never pressed or tense - it's drowsy and lazy.We're constantly following the interviews between a doctor asking what happened that Christmas, and patient Mary (with alter egos Princess and Billy), who refuses to answer the question. Apparently Mary saw or did something bad in her childhood, and has suppressed the memory. The answer seems to lie with third alter ego Simon, but he doesn't want to show himself. It would have added a bit of mystery, had it been interesting.During one of many lunches Mike explains a procedure to make people more docile. It involves a long nail, and the loss of an eye. Recommended cure Sunglasses. All of a sudden, sight-seeing Hank finds a long nail, he meets a mystery man in the basement, and when he appears again, he's very docile and wearing sunglasses. It's so easy, it had me face-palming. The only thing we're left with now, is trying to figure out if the villain here is stressed out Gordon, or his work-mate, intense Phil. Not exactly a tough one, since A) Gordon, like Mary, is very secretive about what's making him feel bad, and B) Gordon is shown spending time both in Mary's old room and by her grave. It doesn't take a genius to understand that they're supposed to have something in common.As it, in the end, turns out that Gordon has killed not only all his work mates, but his wife and child as well (and suppressed the memory), we are also finally introduced to Simon, who is given the role of background noise. I'm guessing he's the darkness in the human soul, because he describes to the doctor how he made Mary kill her brother and their parents. When the doctor asks why he did that, he answers Because they let me, Doc, with a manly and very cliché smug-villain-voice, which is too bad, because it takes all potential scary out of it. Feels like an alter ego of Mary's should sound like Mary, and I might have been scared if the voice had had an air of playful childishness. "},{"Title":"One of the Scariest Movies I've EVER Seen","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" For all the negative crap this movie gets, I can't understand. I saw this movie when it came out at Blockbuster one Halloween in 2002. Since then it has been the horror movie that I judge every other movie against. It's not just a horror film, but a psychological thriller as well, and any movie that can keep my attention AND scare the crap out of me deserves a 10/10. This movie has to be in my DVD around Halloween every year. The characters are great, the story leaves you thinking and the special effects (gore etc) are great! When I went away to college there was the Session 9 Building down the street and we all got into the movie. Great for crowds, parties, etc, just be prepared to be scared! "},{"Title":"This movie has been haunting me for the past EIGHT YEARS.","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time back in 2001, when it came out. I was fourteen years old, and the only one in my family who really got it. We had rented it, and I ended up watching it five times in a row before it had to be returned. It's been eight years since then and I'm still flabbergasted at how much this movie has affected me.Since 2001, it's been sleeping beneath my skin. I could always feel it. It's the kind of movie that sits like a shadow at your peripheral, staring at you, even though you can't precisely recall why exactly it made you so afraid of your own mind in the first place, or why you can't look it in the eye. At least, that's how it's been between then and tonight, when I finally found it again and relived that horror.I remembered who the killer was, but none of the details had survived the years. I'd even forgotten Simon's name...ah, dear Simon. He alone inspired me to write a book. I'd forgotten what exactly had triggered my sudden urge to start writing, but looking back at it now, it makes sense...which is also creepy.Anyway, there are enough commentators describing the plot and details to fill in for me in those areas. What matters is that you understand that this is the kind of movie that you have to allow into your head. You have to let it crawl inside and reach its cold tendrils into your mind before you can truly understand the horror of it all.And to those who complain that the alternate ending would have added to it, or that the characters weren't fleshed-out enough, or whatever other minutiae people whine about in this age of hyper-stimulationMore is not necessarily better. Look at it as though the movie itself were a human mind--flawed and broken, heartbreaking and tragic--a mind so shattered it can't be bothered with in-depth descriptions. That emptiness and those holes in the story are actually a dark, gaping abyss hiding some greater evil within the human psyche. And when you do start to notice details, you realize exactly how brilliant a film it is. Those missing pieces are a part of the story, the way a mind is still whole even when some memories have faded or been locked away. You realize that the reason why you can't look it in the eye is because you're afraid that you'll see a part of yourself in there.I love horror movies--adore them, even--but no movie has ever truly made me afraid the way this movie has. The simplicity of it all, the parallel story lines converging to the same grisly conclusion, and Session 9 itself. Too many disregard the title, and lean more towards the characters or the setting. Though both are amazing, the entire movie is really just a buildup towards that final Session, where you discover why the past seems to be repeating itself, as well as Simon's final line...and why you're not exactly safe on the other side of the screen.Overall, quite possibly my favorite movie of all time--not because it was a blast or because it blew me away with action-packed wall-to-wall excitement, but because it's a part of me now.IT WILL NEVER GO AWAY.(BIG SPOILERS~!) Creepiest Parts When you realize that EVERY phone conversation Gordon has had with his wife since the night he brought her flowers has actually been with nobody at all. The last one, especially, nearly made me cry. I would have, but I was too busy gawking at what I'd just witnessed and trying to find a stuffed animal to make me feel better.Also, Simon in general. When you're fourteen years old, that creepy mess sticks, people. The way he tagged doc to the end of every line made every goose bump I possessed prick up, and his last line...that's what got me. That's why this movie has never left me, why I've always counted it as one of the best, despite the memory lapses. Simon made it ultra-personal with that final line, and he'll never let me go.The darkness chasing Gordon's nephew was pretty freaky, too, though not at the same level as Simon and Gordon.Lastly, that soundtrack...*shudder* Having the room go dark when you hit the credits, and having that ambiance of pure creepy right after such a traumatic ending...I needed a hug...and do right now. "},{"Title":"One of the best psychological horror movies ever made","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is a masterpiece of psychological horror and is intelligent enough to let the viewer's imagination do most of the work. The setting is an abandoned mental hospital. An isolated asbestos-removal team is working to make the facility safe for construction crews. Eventually it becomes clear that one member of the team has started to become dangerously unhinged.The atmosphere of the old mental hospital is perfectly ominous. This is a place where bad things have happened and will happen again. Director Brad Anderson does a brilliant job of focusing on the small, creepy aspects of the massive building. The slow, sinister drip of water in an empty corridor, remnants of former patient's possessions strewn on the floor, shadows moving across the wall of an empty room...The interaction of the work crew is also handled brilliantly. Each character is developed enough to feel real and multi-dimensional. We feel the tension between them building as their deadline rapidly approaches. Their personalities begin to clash, and civilized order is gradually forgotten.What actually causes the severe, psychotic breakdown of one crew member is open to debate and left mysterious. Some will see Session 9 as a study of mental illness, others will see it as a story of demonic possession. While Session 9 stands on its own as a masterpiece, it's hard not to see parallels with The Shining. Some viewers, desiring a more typical horror movie, might find the slow pacing and lack of action a bit dull. However, if you're willing to be patient and pay close attention, Session 9 will leave you utterly disturbed. "},{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is fantastic! Dark and incredibly creepy, it left me thinking about it the entire next day. I couldn't tell enough people about it, and watched it again as soon as I got home. Very rarely does a film feel like this, you are genuinely scared. The problems that people have with this movie are totally ridiculous! They need more for some reason. Why do you want to know the mother and child better or they were unhappy with the ending..WHAT?! WHY?! This film gives you everything you need and no more to follow it. Session 9 is wasted on these people. It is a truly scary work of art. For those of you who've not seen this film yet, just sit back and try not to over think everything. It will lead you down a dark, frightening, brilliant path. "}{"Title":"chilling even with the lights on","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I went to college near Danvers State, and it was legend in the area. I was a psych major focusing on mental illness, which made it even more interesting to me, and my interest spread to my friends. We wanted to go inside and explore (we LOVE abandoned buildings of all kinds) but they were cracking down on visiting. So, when we all heard about Session 9, we just HAD to watch it. We wanted to focus on the setting and not be scared. So, a whole group of us watched it with the lights on - and we were TERRIFIED.This isn't your typical slasher flick; I don't find those particularly scary. This is a well-made thriller. The cinematography was excellent - the arts majors I lived with were extremely impressed. I do agree that the end could have been a little tighter; if you like your movies to be wrapped up in a nice package at the end, then this film might annoy you. But it's spawned such excellent discussions about the movie that I think it may have been intentional and certainly doesn't take away from the film in an intellectual way. And the acting was great. Finally - I agree, the uncredited actor in this is most definitely the setting; Danvers was the perfect place to film this movie and, when the new apartments there open up, you couldn't pay me to live in them.So - if your tastes run more to the Freddy/Jason/Urban Legends/gore type of horror, this one may not be for you. But if you like movies that will scare you via a psychological route - for example, The Ring got to me quite a bit - then I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Brad Anderson One To Watch","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I saw the Brad Anderson-directed episode of Showtime's MASTERS OF HORROR, Sounds Like, I was completely blown away (read my review for the comments.) Rarely (and especially on that show) do directors these days take that subtle approach to horror, concentrating as much on the characters and their inner demons as they do on fake blood and CG effects. I have to admit that it took me a long while to get around to SESSION 9, partly because I'd read a lot of critic's reviews that put it in the Top Ten List of Movies for the year it was released. The other reason why is because I was really afraid that after Sounds Like, this movie would not live up to all the hype.I'm glad to report that not only did it live up to expectations, at least for me, but it actually surpassed them. All the fear, dread and bone-deep, chilling sense of WRONGNESS that should've made movies like Kubrick's THE SHINING into timeless classics is all right here. Stephen King should high-five Anderson for getting all the details and nuances of the author's best work dead to rights, although it's an Anderson original (co-written by cast member Steven Gevedon). King could do worse than to get Anderson to adapt one of his yet- to-be filmed novels. (GERALD'S GAME, maybe?)The cast aces all their performances, and rarely does such a deceptively simple story yield such a terrifying result. Five men on a hazmat cleaning crew (Peter Mullen, David Caruso, Josh Lucas, Gevedon and Brandon Sexton III) have been hired to clear asbestos from a huge abandoned mental asylum. But what should've been a week's worth of hard but fast work with a fat bonus waiting at the end, becomes an exercise in terror as the institution's haunted past begins to affect them all in different ways...some more radically than others. Here is a place that makes Shirley Jackson's Hill House look cover-ready for the next issue of Better Homes and Gardens. And the fact that this place is NOT a set - that it actually exists - only adds to the creep factor. However, take note this is not a journey to be taken for the cinematically-challenged. If you like your murderers in hockey masks, your victims amply endowed and bra-less, and your dialogue at the National Lampoon-knockoff level, then perhaps you should leave movies like SESSION 9 for the grown-ups. This is a well-written, taut psychological thriller where the demons and ghosts that haunt each one of these men are as terrifying as the ones that may or may not be walking the shattered halls and rooms of the Danvers institution. Anderson and crew have created a film that holds up when compared to any classics like THE HAUNTING or THE CHANGELING, yet still manages to be unique on its own. And the acting is outstanding. (Who knew these days that David Caruso has more than just two expressions?) And though I'd heard of Peter Mullen, I had never seen one of his films until now. I need to catch up and find out more about this incredible actor. If you are a lover of classic horror, put SESSION 9 at the top of your list of must-sees. And keep your eye on Brad Anderson. I think we have yet to see the best from him, and this makes for one heck of a great introduction. "},{"Title":"A creepy gem of a film. Must see for fans of The Shining","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Erie film that builds dread and uneasiness from start to finish. A refreshing take on the tired group stuck in a haunted house routine. The group in question is made up of asbestos removal guys under pressure to do a large Reno job in a short time. Oh and the job in question is one of the creepiest mental institutions in the United States. Great chemistry and mistrust is built between the cast as Anderson plays on the psychological demons each actor faces throughout the film. You don't know if there are ghosts, demons or transferred madness until the very end of the film. Overall refreshing and worth a look if you like your ghost stories to question the reliability of the haunted.Can madness be transferred by the dead?Twists all the way to the end. Beautifully shot on HD. "},{"Title":"I'm a Woman of Few Words","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a thinking man's horror film. If you are a fan of slasher films, you probably won't like this one. It's slow moving, but each scene is relevant. The characters are well played and the interactions between each mirrors something deeper moving below the surface. In fact, if you watch it several times, you may see and hear things you missed the first time. The tension between the characters and the breakdown of trust is intriguing to watch. If you enjoyed the film The Shining you will probably like this movie. It deals more with the psyche than your average horror film. A well crafted film for those who like their brain stimulated. "},{"Title":"A very intelligent horror film","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is the ''anti-Scream''.When the movie Scream gave a new ''air'' to horror films,a lot of craps tried to copy it.Luckily,the independent films are great and they do something different,just like Session 9 did.This film took a story not too original and it gave a new perspective to it putting a great style and a lot of intelligence.Session 9 is not a horror film for teenagers who see empty and predictable horror movies.This is a horror movie for adults which develops perfectly to its characters and shows the relationship between them in a realistic and very human way.Every supernatural thing the movie shows is not too important.The most important things are the conflicts and problems that the stress and the normal life affect to the characters.That thing works perfectly because the strong dialogs and the main characters' horrible situations can produce fear in the spectator.And when that elements have as a complement the silence of the cold and wet corridors,the shadows in the tunnels and the memories of the people who were in a time in the hospital(the place in which happens the action of the film),the experience is totally disturbing.Session 9 is a slow movie.The suspense grows up slowly,keeping the spectator interested,and,without noticing it,the spectator finishes as tense and paranoid as the characters.This film reminded me of The haunting(1963)and the book on which that movie was based.Both movies are so tense that the most normal scene has a great level of intensity.Session 9 is a great horror movie which shows that you do not need great inversions of special effects to make a disturbing horror film. "},{"Title":"Good setting, started out OK, quickly lost steam","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just saw this film yesterday on a DVD copy that a friend gave to me.While it had it's good moments, at the end I was just left with a big HUH? I thought that the setting i.e. the Danvers Mental Hospital was great. I also liked some of the shots of the hospital done in the full sun of mid day, that emphasized its creepiness (too many times horror films rely on murky night shots).The film started out really well, and made me interested in watching more. However, all too soon it degenerated into the typical faults of modern horror movies. Mysterious noises and shadows. Long lingering camera shots on incongruous objects with no explanation (I kept asking myself Is that hole in the wall supposed to mean something? What this about the coins?) None of these are followed up on.As the movie progressed, I had the feeling that the plot was like a car stuck in the mud---spinning its wheels uselessly.I also found it hard to have much sympathy for the characters--sorta like the producers/writers told themselves Lets make these guys your typical working schlubs!! with all the attendant qualities i.e foul mouths, empty minds, etc. The Scottish/Irish/British actor was by far the best and most interesting. There is something about the Brit actors--their training, professionalism, and (I suspect) just more worldly wise---that beats out any thing that your typical Hollywood actor can do.I give the movie a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What horror cinema is all about","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie definitively need more exposure than it had. Great great flick. Brad Anderson scores a hit with a very very low budget horror movie. With a creepy building, some intelligent lighting, sound and with some twisted ideas, that guy got me more scared than I've ever been in years.I don't know what Brad Anderson did before and after Session No.9 but I thank him for this powerful horror movie. Everything is about the place. Slowly the characters are discovering the grim history of this place, are trying to cope with it, but they can't something inside this place is just wrong. With white and brown spots, Brad Anderson is recreating a haunting place where tortured souls were ending their days in torment. So what's the deal? What is scary? Then find out, rent it. I'm not giving away spoilers. Just be ready for horror as you never seen it.A true genuine horror flick. "},{"Title":"Scary (and not just because Caruso is in it...)","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Unlike another low-budget horror film (featuring a bunch of moronic brats lost in the woods), this one is actually pretty scary. It's far from being perfect, but it's got some rather unsettling moments, and makes great use of the setting inside the mental institution.It's shot digitally, which more often than not reduces the viewing experience, but when I saw it on TV it didn't bother me at all. The acting works fine, and even Caruso manages to be watchable!The filmmakers create a creepy atmosphere, and rely on a slowly building eerie feeling, rather than the usual killer-jumps-out-of-a-closet-with-a-big-knife scare tactic. The ending is a bit ambiguous, and either you think it's great that you can make up your own mind as to what happened, or you think that they chickened out and didn't know how to explain things properly. I'm still a bit undecided on that one. Still, it's well worth a watch if you're in to this sort of thing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hell of a Thriller","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this movie tonight around 10-1130pm. Hearing of the rumors that it was slow and awful ending, I was already at that point sketched out. On most occasions I can handle a thriller/horror and get bored at times. After seeing this AMAZING movie though, I had a total different perspective on all horror flicks no matter the rumors or reviews. I had goosebumps all over my body the whole length of the film. Wasn't a jump out of the closet with a mask type of scary movie. I would easily define it as a creepy and in-depth movie. If you never heard about the movie or even seen it, you would never in a million years guess the ending. Bit's and pieces gets you questioning what is going on and what is going to happen. When it all starts to comes together your attention is glued to movie. It's not 100% horror throughout the movie, has much humor using sarcasm. Many parts has action and drama. My favorite part was how much thinking I put towards the characters and certain scenes which kept you on the edge of your seat. Paying attention to everything was very critical but came naturally with how they made it. If you can sit through 20-30 minutes of it, and just walk out due to bore of the movie, I would give up posting reviews forever. Bottom line, if you're like me and can't seem to find the typical scary movie that terrifying anymore. Rent or buy this; and you will realize there are movies still out there that can make you wet yourself!  "},{"Title":"Solid acting, tight script, creepy and atmospheric","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's tremendously spooky and atmospheric.  Very disturbing.  It's filmed on location at Danvers State Mental Hospital in Danvers, MA.  I was just up there a couple weeks back with a friend, but we couldn't get onto the property because we hadn't cleared it yet with the MA Film Commission and the State Police -- we're planning on another outing in June.The film is very simple.  It's about five Hazmat guys who go in to remove asbestos with a one week time limit (or they lose their big bonus).  While there, odd things start happening, they start acting differently, one of them stumbles upon some old reel-to-reel tapes in a deserted storage room.  They are recordings of psychiatric sessions between a doctor and a woman who harbors a terrible secret buried beneath layers of multiple personalities. The setting is downright creepy.  The hospital itself seems alive, like a character all its own.  This movie is successful in bringing to the screen something THE HAUNTING (remake of the Shirley Jackson novel inspired film) and Stephen King's ROSE RED failed to do -- it proved that some houses are just born bad.  Watching this film reminded me of some of the images I'd seen personally when doing a little investigation of the old Connecticut Valley Hospital a few years back, and of stories my Mom had told me earlier about her investigations of the place -- she was actually able to get a worker to give her a tour of the subterranean tunnels and cells where they housed the more disturbed patients -- the violent psychotics, the criminally insane.  It's full of dark passages, cramped areas (claustrophobes will go nuts! ;) It's not your typical modern horror film.  It's mostly psychological.  The director compares it to films like THE SHINING and DON'T LOOK NOW (and even THE EXORCIST).  Give it a look.  Solid acting from David Caruso, Steven Gevedon and others make the characters  real.  A tight script with an emphasis on dialogue keeps them alive (for awhile anyway ;)  No flashy special effects means the scares come from other places ;)  All in all, a fine horror flick that will satisfy fans of atmospheric and psychiatric horror.  Fans of only the teeny bopper pseudo slasher films like I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and SCREAM will find it mostly boring and too difficult to follow ;) "}{"Title":"Chilling...","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 may move slow, but it's chilling enough to make you glance around your room at night in the dark to see if anyone's there.Without revealing anything, let's say the whole movie builds up to a big realization conclusion at the end, that will either satisfy you or confuse the hell out of you.The film starts out slow, with a cleaning crew hired to extract asbestos from a run-down mental institution. One of the crew members finds a box of old audio tapes recorded during the sessions of a patient at the hospital who experienced something bad on Christmas night. When people begin dying, we're left to pick up the pieces and make a guess at what's going on.The acting is good, the mood perfect, and the setting of course makes the movie. There weren't too many cliches, either, which is a plus.I have to say the ending totally surprised me. The writers did a wonderful job of setting things up to seem differently than they actually were. A lot of it doesn't make much sense, but that doesn't matter much.Some compared this to The Shining, but the only thing close to it here is the use of location to scare.And Simon is genuinely terrifying. You'll see what I mean.This movie isn't widely known, and that's pretty sad, since I consider it better than half the crap going to theaters right now. It's certainly one of the best horror films I've seen recently and it's very scary, indeed.If a little slow pacing doesn't bother you, rent this and enjoy yourself, you're in for a good scare. "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere, Limp plot","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just finished watching this, have to say i'm a little let down. The build up of the first 3/4 of the film really had me on edge - the location is a directors dream and he made full use of it. Creepy corridors, half seen shadows - this film has it all. This film just drips suspense. The characters are pretty believable as well despite some ham from Mr Caruso, and I was really looking forward to a great twist in the ending.It just didn't happen. After all that build up, the film goes out with a wimper by employing a hugely predictable plot device and compounds the folly by leaving lots of loose ends unexplained. It leaves the film feeling strangely disjointed, as if Wes Craven finished off The Shining for Stanley Kubrick.It IS worth seeing, it makes for a good creepy night in with your other half clutching your arm. You'll be scared, just dont expect to be surprised. "},{"Title":"Great location, not-so-great script","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" At least half of this is a well-photographed tour of a terrifically creepy location, an abandoned mental hospital, with all the main rooms identified. But they never function in the story, which could as well be set in a school or a department store or a brothel. The script is amorphous, the Steven Bochco-style dramatic scenes and the innumerable explorations of dark corridors never coalesce, the characters' actions are often arbitrary and unconvincing, and the payoff is insufficient, as well as needlessly gory. The final revelation is hammered home a hundred and one times. The movie hints throughout at being a ghost story, but its credentials for that are dubious at best; it is really just a standard, non-supernatural junk horror melodrama. With this cast and this location, it could have been a great horror movie, but it needed some idea behind it. And who would ever hire these guys? "},{"Title":"REALLY nothing of worth in this film. And I mean NOTHING!!!","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" For starters I wanted to say that I never write reviews, but this was so bad and useless that I had to warn all the people out there!Actually I had never heard of this film even a week before watching It(and for a very good reason). Me and some friends decided to start Watching some horror films and someone had to search for good ones. So I searched and searched lists and forums and movie sites to clear out which were described as really scary and which were more of a comedy horror than a scary one. Then I found the great Session 9, no one had nothing bad to say, IMDb gives it 6,5 a very good grade for a horror film as even the best out there don't get more than 7,5. The story? Some cleaning crew closes a great deal to clean up an abandoned asylum (bigger than Hogwarts ) in one week. I said OK that's a great promise, some scary stuff are gonna happen to them. I was really wrong! In the week they had they just had breaks all the time, or having fun with their machinery... We begun getting mad after a whole our of nothing happening. I t was bad enough that the directing and photography looked like an early 90's TV show, and a bad one that is.The acting was awful and the scenes that probably had to be the scary ones were so slow and dull that made the film even harder to watch.After an hour of an unwatchable film we decided to put it on fast forward and stop when things begin to happen. We were still wrong and too optimistic. At some point things did start to happen, lights closing down, people getting crazy for no reason and running out of the building like a six year old... But nothing scary, nothing even just interesting, nothing! So nothing to see here! No acting, no production values, no plot and definitely no scares!Please don't read the good reviews, the reviewers probably want to take their blood back by making other people watch this. This was probably the worst film ever and I have watch some very bad films. "},{"Title":"So boring with lots of pointless dialogue and music.","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the worst things about this film is the music. This piano riff keeps coming in telling the audience when to feel afraid or when something important will happen. It is really distracting and annoying, the audience should decided whether something is creepy or interested not be guided buy some stupid piano that always plays the same riff over some key plot point. The characters are boring and have a lot of pointless development that is not interesting, they should have cut about 30 minutes from the film.This brings nothing new to the genre, it is un inspiring and even the camera work is very boring and even distracting the DOP or director does not have a good eye for angles or mood, the rhythm is all off.This film brings nothing new, no interesting premise, no good screenplay to the table. It is completely unoriginal. Just don't waste 140 mins on this go watch a classic. I guess if it came on late at night and I couldn't be bothered to change the channel I would watch it, but I would be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" What is it with people saying this is scary movie with a great script?The movie was so slow to get going if it hadn't been for the quality actors I'd probably have given up with it. Half an hour in and there's no clear direction to the story but I'm thinking something amazing must happen soon.It built some tension a few times but that's not difficult to do - practically every horror movie ever made manages that, whether it's slasher or psychological, I've seen student films that built tension. The movie has zero momentum. It's like the writers pulled ideas from lots of other movies (Shining, Sixth Sense, Blair Witch), mixed them up and ended up confusing themselves as to where to go.The ending is a really weak pay off so it doesn't satisfy on any level and even for a horror movie some of the events and dialogue are just too poor.I'm not a massive horror fan, but I can appreciate a well crafted script that drives a story along in any genre - this is not one of those. It was a real struggle to get through this movie, can't recommend it all. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Psychological Horror Film","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First off, there are a few spoilers. This film is one of my personal favorites. Although, I'm still trying to put the puzzle together completely. This is one of those movies that keeps you wanting more. I still don't know all of the answers. It has a such a real atmosphere and that's a wonderful thing about this film. You can witness and even relate to the true horrors of life. The whole time I'm confused, because there are different ways you can view the movie. So, you're really craving for the answers most moments as you're watching it. It definitely keeps your brain turning. Although, some things are cleared up towards the ending. One thing I really love about this film is the mysteriousness and suspense. Especially, from the old recording sessions with the doctor and patient (who suffers from multiple personality disorder). I also really like the fact that there were no green-screen effects, like too many movies have in these current times. This is how films SHOULD be, regardless of the genre. Plus, it's great that gore or bloody scene weren't used to creep you out, but true existing horror. You will get chills that will creep through you, making you briefly cold.I'm still wondering if Phil had something to do with the way Gordon's behavior turned out. Just as the example when Mike mentioned that the girl who claimed that she was raped, lost her case because she was a virgin (and the doctor helped her recover those memories). Although, the experience was never true. It's as if the doctor created them for her. So, maybe Phil created some memories or thoughts for Gordon. It sort of appears that way. I keep wondering if Phil actually talked to Amy on the phone or not, because he said that she told him that Hank went to Miami, but Jeff found him standing at the top of the stairs. It seemed as if Phil lied and had something to do with Hank disappearing because he wanted Hank gone from the start. Although,it puzzles me that Phil seems confused when he finds Hank sitting in the basement area. Did the guys who were talking to Phil have anything to do with what happened in the asylum. It did seem suspicious. Also, I wonder how the evidence box effect them all. Maybe the entity of Simon was released. I wish the characters would have been exposed more; their lives at home and such. Additionally, I wonder why the deleted scene weren't included in the film. I think it was explained that they felt the scenes were unnecessary or slowed the movie down. I recommend watching the deleted scenes to understand what I'm talking about. The cast of the film did a good job working together. Overall, this film is outstanding and I would love the see a part 2 or sequel. Perhaps, it could start off from before the time when they starting working in the asylum. Last but not least, the background music is awesome. This film will definitely mess with your mind. "},{"Title":"Slow...","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I honestly love how movies can be set in an abandoned mental asylum but I didn't think this movie was working around it enough. I would rather if the storyline wasn't too slow so that we could be able to see the past and being able to scare the living daylights out of the men!I also didn't like the guys attitude on how they were saying that the parents were a bunch of loonies or just nuts. Any patient who was in a mental institution had either a disability or just Mental health, it just made me annoyed and shocked that they could get away of making fun of those poor innocent people being treated completely poorly! I really just thought this movie was rather lazy, boring and a bit unflattering! "},{"Title":"The Week and The Wounded","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Just goes to show that intelligent thrillers are out there if you know where to look.After seeing Session 9 on numerous lists and websites for years, I finally got around to watching it. Now I can't say I was expecting a great deal from the film after hearing a few bad comments, but I tend to take a liking to psychological thrillers, and so figured I'd give it a shot. Was I pleasantly surprised!The first few minutes of film do a marvelous job at establishing the setting. Great shots of the dilapidated complex provide a true sense of mystery, as well as the dark undertones of the story. The characters and their accompanying personalities within the film are nothing special, but the relationships are believable, and no acting failures to be seen.By the time the film has progressed to its halfway point, the air of mystery is already becoming quite thick. If your attention wasn't grasped within the first few minutes of the film, it certainly will be by now if you've been paying attention to detail. Many a creepy moment can be observed, and true genuine tension and suspense emphasises the power of this film.Finally after about an hour and a half of true viewer anxiety, the film wraps up. While the conclusion certainly isn't an outstanding twist from far out of left field, it's by no means a let down. It certainly kept me entertained, and final dialogue left me with a sense of awe and utter appreciation for the craftsmanship present.All in all, Session 9 is a powerful and intelligent psychological thriller that is immensely entertaining, and terrifyingly creepy throughout. A few powerful shots will continue to make me shudder for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Eerie, Disturbing Film","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There are so many bad horror films made now by amateurs on similar budgets it would be easy to mistake this for more low rent shlock. In fact, it is a brilliant tour de force in the macabre from the first frame to the last creepy word.David Caruso is excellent in this as the conscience of the piece (no spoilers) and the other actors are very convincing and natural. You won't know what is really happening until the very end and the director guides the whole picture swiftly to a truly memorable ending.I hate films with gore in them and love eerie psychological flicks with undertones of the supernatural. The best of them leaves you wondering if any of it was real outside of the protagonists mind. This is a film like that and it sticks with you longer afterwards.DO IT, GORDON. This movie will raise the hair on the back of your neck, guaranteed. Is it a ghost film? Fortean classic of the macabre? Brilliant psychological horror? All three at the same time and a little more. "}{"Title":"The Weak and the Wounded","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you could rate a movie on atmosphere alone, Session 9 would just about tip the scales. And if anyone deserved to stumble upon the creepier than crap location that is the dilapidated Danvers Mental Hospital (parts of which still exist just miles from our house), it's Brad Anderson. He's got a almost instinctual feel for building suspense slowly, out of elements that seem about as terrifying as your lawnmower. The fact that he could make the intrinsically creaky Halle Berry 911 vehicle The Call work is proof of that alone. And Transsiberian...well, don't even get me started.Session 9 is not a traditional horror film, but more of a psychological one. It's also a finite dissection of group dynamics among a group of five Asbestos-removal workers whose stressed-out boss Gordon (Peter Mullan) over-commits the team to gutting the behemoth skeleton that was Danvers in one week.What Session 9 is really superb at is relaying the claustrophobia and paranoia that creep up the backs of all five protagonists, inciting infighting, general bitchiness, and eventually a fraying of sanity.There's also a nicely parallel subplot that only exists in a room full of abandoned reel tapes of old sessions from the mental hospital, recordings that Stephen Gevedon's amateur law student can't get enough of, and which, together with the freakiest bunch of art direction (thanks to Roger Danchik) in the form of manically-rendered wall collages, really gets under your skin.David Caruso is the wild card surprise in this crumbling house of cards. You never know quite what to make of his character. Is he a suck-up, a saboteur, or just the friend Gordon needs? It's a really smoothed-out virtuoso turn.But then again, the whole movie is like that. You won't shake it, or the mood of it, for days. "},{"Title":"Genuinely disturbing horror","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is a unique bit of minimalist horror, slow burning it's way through a paced story that seems like it's not really going anywhere, until out of nowhere it's got you in its chilling grip. There are no jump scares here, no long haired, slack jawed apparitions rolling their eyes and howling at people. Just an inevitable buildup of dread, mostly thanks to the film's amazing location, the abandoned Danvers State Mental Asylum in Massachusetts. You couldn't pay me enough to go shoot there, but this group of actors is game, playing an asbestos removal crew who have a huge deadline ahead of them with the building. Intense Scottish Peter Mullan plays their foreman in the strongest performance in the film. David Caruso and Josh Lucas are squabbling man children in his employ, and Brendan Sexton plays his dimwitted nephew, inexperienced but on the crew anyway. They goof off, kill time and wander the empty halls of the massive building, and one of them finds dusty old tape recordings, containing psychiatric sessions with a severely disturbed patient. Things ever so slowly start to go south as they get jittery, start acting unlike themselves and pretty soon ascend into all out hysteria. The tapes are creepy as hell, as the patient suffering from multiple personality disorder and the voices emanating from them will put your hairs on end. The building is a characyer all its own, and it's influence on the workers is a sustained workup to the inevitable scenes of haywire madness at the end. It's one of those movies where you can't really tell someone in an obvious way why and how it's scary, you just have to experience it's atmosphere for yourself. "},{"Title":"A Watchable Movie But Not What I Expected","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Cheesy introduction lines, unnecessary jokes and giggles from the security guard in the beginning, those are just poor excuses to tell the hospital's eerie past to the audience. Despite having a very limited time for the job, all the characters takes their time to discover the building instead of working. Also Hank's music player has a very good battery saving i guess, it can play music for days nonstop.A nice plot for a clichéd asylum horror, but i was expecting a better, stronger ending.It has a weak start and a weak ending, a poor connection with the Mary Hobbes case (Simon should have been a little bit more dense maybe). In contrast to those, this movie do not rely on cheap thrills or stupid shock moments, it is definitely not a teenager calamity type of movie which is a good thing.In a few words;I will not remember this movie a few days later.. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Horror.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is an outstanding film. Well acted, superbly directed, with plenty of highly atmospheric cinematography which really compliment the overall texture of the film. I thought 'Oh No! Not another film in an abandoned Asylum/Hospital yet there are no silly convoluted thrills like the protagonists unable to get out or 'ghosts' with big mouths and eyes. There is not a lot here for the fan of traditional 'shock horror'. The one common criticism here is that the film rolls on too slowly in parts; is a fair comment. That said, the quality of the cast keep everything ticking on when the story seems to be sticking a little. This is more the sort of 'horror' film a chin stroking Jazz fan would prefer than a raucous Heavy Metal fan might.... The film works well on so many levels. Well shot, brilliantly acted, has a strong, if patchy storyline, plenty of genuine chills which combine to make a cohesive, excellent horror film with a good climax which will reward the hardest horror fan. This film is already gaining a strong cult following but really deserves mainstream recognition from fans of the genre and beyond. "},{"Title":"characters not that compelling","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Bill Griggs (Paul Guilfoyle) has a rush job to clear asbestos from closed mental institution. Gordon Fleming (Peter Mullan) owns a small removal company. He's stressed out about the business and his new baby. Mike (Stephen Gevedon) tells the rest of the crew about the history of the asylum. Phil (David Caruso) is bitter after losing his girlfriend to co-worker Hank (Josh Lucas). Jeff (Brendan Sexton III) is the Gordon's idiot nephew. Mike discovers 9 taped sessions of patient Mary Hobbes with multiple personalities.I don't find the characters that compelling. The rooting interest is limited. It's a low budget haunted house movie. The HD digital film looks a bit better. The fact that this is all in the daylight and with full grown men makes this less scary. It has a certain moodiness. I wish the movie's timeline is shorten to increase the intensity and make the ending even more compelling. This could be improved. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is not scary. The venue may be a scary place but it isn't handled well. The characters run around the whole time oblivious to what each other is doing despite the fact that they are a team, who've worked together for years (despite a recent recruit) and should communicate easily with each other in a friendly air. One of the 4 guys on the team spends all of his time checking out hours of tape in the basement and not working despite the whole setup for the film being that they beat other contractors because they promised to finish quicker. It's just unnecessary. How dumb do they think the audience is? They impose a time limit on the work and apparent bonuses on the workers, but they can slack off as much as they want and still believe they will get a bonus. The big reveal at the end is obvious and the movie offers no real value. Everyone who watches it will never watch it for e second time. "},{"Title":"Session 9 Will Haunt You For Days","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I found a list of best ghost movies, and now I'm set for like the rest of the month. This ended up on that list, and while it's not exclusively a supernatural flick, I wasn't disappointed. Session 9 follows an asbestos cleaning crew as they work inside an abandoned mental hospital. One of the characters, Mike, finds a collection of old tapes that chronicle sessions of Mary Hobbes, who has disassociative identity disorder. Each of her personalities mention a man named Simon, who may be linked to a suppressed memory that Mary has. Session 9 is a slow-burner; it builds up a dense atmosphere and sense of dread until the final act becomes exceptionally creepy and intense. It's much more unsettling than outright scary, and that's the perfect mood for this type of movie. The tapes that Mike listens to are increasingly unnerving and create a lot of suspense as to who exactly Simon is. When Simon finally speaks in the 9th session, it's incredibly scary and memorable. Along with an extremely talented cast, beautiful cinematography and an ambiguous ending that could create hours of discussion, Session 9 is a very creepy and atmospheric psychological horror film. "},{"Title":"That's what happens if you work with asbestos a lot )","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a very stylish, very homogeneous and thoroughly thought-out movie. It is not stylish in terms of trying to impress you with bright effects; it has an elegant, sophisticated cinematography, a minimalistic but effective soundtrack and a kind of showing you things and faces which contributes to its eerie atmosphere. The characters and acting are flawless in my opinion; it is important that you are being told what you are told about the characters - and no more. The things you get to know will get you in emotionally.Intelligent plot, which gives you enough hints on what is happening from the beginning on, but these hits are veiled and only to be recognized by the connoisseur. And there is more than one option to interpret what is happening, you are left thinking about the possibilities for a while after having watched the film. There are a couple of plot holes, though, but not nearly as much as in most other horror films. And the ending is completely comprehensible and logical (I don't know what you guys did not get about this ending?..).Intelligent, original, eerie and also very sad. "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror Done Quite Well","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the few horror movies I have seen with essentially no jump scares. And it still remains scary. Who would have thought, especially in todays day and age of loud noise = scary, that would work? But it does. Session 9 really gets in your head, and that's exactly how it scares you.Session 9 is about a asbestos cleaning crew who goes into an abandoned insane asylum. That's when things start getting weird, and you begin to wonder who in their group is trustworthy. You are constantly getting new little clues and hints, all telling you that something isn't right, but you're not sure what. As I said before, there is basically no jump scares, so all of the horror is about visuals, sounds, and atmosphere. It gets pretty creepy, and there are some really visually scary things, such as the hallways of lights scene. It's just really freaky.The film is clearly shot on some kind of digital camera, and it kind of gives it a cheap look. I have to give them credit, because occasionally they capture some nice shots, but overall it does look kinda cheap. Another gripe I have with the film is that the resolution is slightly unoriginal. It feels like you've seen it before, even if you are a little surprised. This film is more impressive when you look at how it was executed, rather than the main plot itself. It's a really eerie and scary film, and will most certainly get into your head when watching it. I'm sure you will be spooked if you watch it all alone and in the dark. "},{"Title":"Session 9 is the very definition of the quintessential underrated horror film.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Tensions rise within an asbestos cleaning crew as they work in an abandoned mental hospital with a horrific past that seems to be coming back. An asbestos abatement crew wins the bid for an abandoned insane asylum. What should be a straightforward, if rather rushed, job, is complicated by the personal histories of the crew. In particular, Hank is dating Phil's old girlfriend, and Gordon's new baby seems to be unnerving him more than should be expected. Things get more complicated as would-be lawyer Mike plays the tapes from a former patient with multiple personalities, including the mysterious Simon who does not appear until Session 9, and as Hank disappears after finding some old coins. Bloody Disgusting ranked the film fifth in its list of the twenty best horror films of the 2000s, writing, Session 9 isn't just a cheap, hack 'n' slash, instantly-forgettable type horror film, but a psychologically probing, deeply unsettling journey off the edge and into the abyss of the human mind. Session 9 is the very definition of the quintessential underrated horror film. It is one of the few psychologically affective films that I've ever seen. Session 9 is not based on or conforming to what is generally done in horror films such as Friday the 13th and Halloween. This film is different from other films in an appealing, unique and interesting way; it doesn't stick with the usual norms but instead tries to reinvent the wheel, which is what I admire the most about it. Session 9 is full of a brooding tense atmosphere that lasts for the entirety of the movie. I personally love this type of film because it leaves you on the edge of your seat. "}{"Title":"Well Worth Watching!","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to agree with one reviewer of this film on IMDb - that a lot of the thrills of this movie is subtle horror, which is the type I love! Yes you have to actually pay attention to film to get the subtle horror but plenty of that is in this film.I never expected to like Session 9 so well but the movie fooled me - I liked this film a lot - it's better than I was expecting. It is a movie that slowly builds into a extremely terrifying thriller! I even enjoyed the beginning of the movie where their is no obvious horror and we are introduced to the characters... I actually got into the characters fairly quickly and took a liking to all of them.This is a film that you are better off watching from the beginning and sitting through it without any distractions to keep up with the characters as they reveal more information and make new discoveries.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"If you are looking for high intense, gripping, what-is going-to-happen-next movie, Session 9 will be the right choice for you","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It was weekend and I needed to quench my thirst for some kick-ass, make- me-wanna-watch again movie. I was browsing through Brad Anderson's filmography and noted peculiar named Session 9. I was flabbergasted to watch the brilliant psychopath thriller which definitely made thinking for some time after I completed the movie.A terrible past lays in an abandoned hospital where group of asbestos cleaner are given a job. Eventually, omen from the past re-surfaces and killing of each crew member leads to further tension.As I was a big fan of the movies like The Machinist and The Call, I admired the work of Brad Anderson and I was glad to have made right decision by watching Session 9. The movie is in line of Machinist , American Psycho , Donnie Darko which I define as thinking man's films. If you have to watch the movie very carefully as scene has clue to another and the main drama which unfolds will be astounding. The best part of the movie is the spine-chilling climax where the actual murderer is revealed. The background score is another highlight of the movie which gels well with the mood of the film. Kudos to Brad Anderson was directing the intense and gripping drama. The movement of the film is slow yet enthralling. All the actors did justice to their with conviction.If you are looking for high intense, gripping, what-is going-to-happen- next movie, Session 9 will be the right choice for you. Astounding 4/5 "},{"Title":"Paranoia in a perfect package.","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Back in the early years of cinema effects and techniques weren't as advanced as today. For the horror genre this meant that suggestion was used in order to make the audience scare themselves. It is a technique that has been sadly lost as we moved through the excesses of the 70's, 80's and 90's. Made in 2001, Session 9 is a spectacular exercise in subtlety, drama, character development and paranoid inducing suspense. A group of workmen are hired to strip asbestos from an old asylum before it is converted. When one of them discovers a series of session recordings with an inmate guilty of a series of brutal killings strange things start to happen the more sessions he listens to. Quite simply this low budget horror is a brilliant excuse to arrange a date night, you won't want to be alone after this finishes. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Creepy Movie","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Initially, the movie is dragged a bit. I would say it is worth the wait as the story builds, so does your curiosity. Once the movie gets into it's creepy mode, it really gets under your skin. The locale adds to the creepiness. If you are looking for blood and gore or scary ghostly figures, this is not the movie for you. However, if you have the patience and like movies that build the plot slowly, I would recommend that you watch this flick. It is sort of disturbing and you can feel it after you watch it. This movie is not for the impatient kind. It requires a bit of imagination and patience. It is surprising that with such little cast and not much of a plot, this movie can give you the creeps. "},{"Title":"Oh my gosh","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie used so many examples of great tracking sounds to make the audience understand the texture of a given scene,the mis-en-scene, is naturally a very scary place. A mental hospital is the perfect place to build a scene around,because of the mystery behind it. i am pretty much rambling on now because i have to have a minimum of ten lines for this given film review.only just a couple more lines and we will be there please do not feel obligated to read the nonsense i have composed after the fourth line of this summary. All in all this was a good movie, the most memorable scene was when Jeff was crying trying to outrun the dying electricity in the basement. "},{"Title":"No","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was a great horror film with a weird twist behind the storyline. I really like the location in which they filmed the movie at, it was a great idea. I thought that they could of done a lot better because they had a small budget on the movie. A momorable scene for me was when jeff was running down a narrow hallway screaming and crying because the lights were going off as he was running. This is all i have to say about this movie, so i gave it a 7 out of 10 because it was the best movie our class has watched this semester. now i am just rambling on now because i need at least a minimum of 10 lines and i have to get this done. "},{"Title":"my take ...","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Love Urban Exploration. Thats how i ended up watching this movie. I don't think the workers were aspects of the Guys personality as mentioned elsewhere, but i do agree with the comparisons with 'The Shining' - and that is a good thing. Sadly I didn't feel any sympathy for any of the characters, except for the young chap though, which is where, for me, this movie fell down a little, but it did draw me in nicely.In the first it is explained, that some patients come back, indeed this seems to have been given slightly more emphasis than it may otherwise have warranted if this set-up were not important. I like to think that they all have returned. That some (or all) of the workers are former patients,.. but i'm not sure.I know you'll all probably disagree, but i've only watched it once, and may well watch it again soon. Other movies reminiscent of this are 'Shutter Island' 'Angel Heart' and of course, 'The Shining' - I'm sure there's one or two more i've seen, but their name escapes me at the moment, but the thing is, that out main protagonist ends up being ambiguous, either someone completely different than we have assumed, and it turns the movie on its head, just as you think you've got a handle on it. There's another gloomy 'Urban Exploration' (or UE or Urbex) type movie called 'After' (2006) i enjoyed, similarly creepy and odd.Hmmm.. I've been 'round a disused Psychiatric hospital, whilst it was running at full tilt, and much later, (with permission) when it was closed down. very creepy and full of heartache, and add dreadfully haunting and scary into that, when they are deserted. "},{"Title":"There was a lot of blood,Doc.","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie cops some of its moves from Kubrick's The Shining and maybe a bit from The Changeling(in so far as its use of the wheelchair as a conduit for the supernatural),but its more homage to these films,not ripoff--it's a fine line between the two,but this is a genuinely creepy movie,made for next to nothing,and using high-speed digital cameras,which give it a look I've not seen--maybe David Lynch's Inland Empire,but it's still looks way different.Great movie,good actors,a feeling of dread pervading everything--this film disturbed me,for sure.There's one thing I've wondered about,and it's the guy who's drawn to the session tapes--it must be some predestination that he finds the tapes right off the bat--you could say that that's contrived,but I think it still works. "},{"Title":"Open Session","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Brad Anderson succeeds in creating tension in 'Session 9'. The entire abandoned building that was once a mental institute serves as a character. Decaying, damaged, creepy and dark are only but a few words to describe the interiors. The chilling atmosphere is well maintained. While the characters are initially unaware of the lurking danger, Anderson gradually reveals that not all is right. His use of disturbing themes like trans-orbital lobotomy with the icepick (that was carried out in the 1940s to treat psychological disorders)It is only in the concluding fifteen minutes that the movie goes haywire. Anderson chooses to go the clichéd path that fails to explain some of the earlier events, leaving uncovered plot holes. In this final portion, the performances are also over the top. The execution also left a lot to be desired. The lighting and sound are quite poor. The minimal soundtrack works effectively. Where acting is concerned, Peter Mullan leads the cast while his fellow co-stars do a competent job (notwithstanding the last fifteen minutes). Had Anderson picked a more solid conclusion or left a more suggestive ending, 'Session 9' could have been something great. "},{"Title":"Nyctophobia is a creepy phobia","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" well i watched it last night in general its good low budget horror movie nice script decent actors well directed but the ending well i ve seen this a 1000000000 times but not bad though the best part of the movie when they turn on the recorder to hear the session well thats very scary and the simon part wow well nice Psychological horror movie indeed the set was very great nice story line the princess and silly billy well very scary voices horrific well actually i wanted to see ghosts or something in this movie rather than only voices , the face in the end i don't considere it as a ghost face but if i saw this movie in the cinema i would have been very disappointed i think this movie is made to see it in the dark alone at night genuinely creepy and effective powerful its a very great thriller also well i recommend it to be seen at night alone in the dark .... "}{"Title":"An excellent study of brooding fear","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I finally got around to watching this film last night as I thought it fairly appropriate to watch a psychological horror on Halloween. All in all i was fairly impressed and consider it to be a worthy, thought provoking if flawed effort.The fantastic setting of an abandoned mental institute and the excellent cinematography and score combine to create a wonderful feeling of creeping dread that builds successfully in the first two thirds of the film. The cast is also pretty decent, especially the somewhat troubled Scottish lead who's name escapes me. i have to say I wasn't all that impressed with David Carusos performance. These elements combine to form a true psychological horror that is a credit to the name. Many parts of the abandoned asylum reminded me strongly of Konamis Silent Hill series which were a particular favourite of mine. I think the only truly unsatisfactory part of this film has to be the ending and the subsequent weak denouement. All of the carefully constructed tension and dread is dissipated by a relatively low key ending that somewhat punctures many of the truly terrifying images and theories swirling in the viewers mind. That said, this film does merit further viewings and is thought provoking on a scarcely seen level in modern horror, and for that it must be saluted, if only with a somewhat harsh 6 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Creepy... but not the best...","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on TV last night in my hotel room, and the first thing I will say is that it was very creepy the whole time. The suspense/horror side of the film seems to work great. It made me very uncomfortable more than once. However, there are several keys that make it not the best.This is a movie about a crew of asbestos cleaners whose latest job is to clean out a HUGE old, abandoned insane asylum. As you would have guessed, this turns out to be not the best idea. Slowly, the whole crew starts to uncover secrets that the building, and their partners lives hold. Then, the horror starts when one of them goes missing. Great idea, right? It really should have been. True, the suspense part works well; the movie is very creepy. However, it's the conclusion that really kills it. I still can't figure out half of the plot. The other half, though, is pushed right in your face. Neither idea works well. The other main problem is the script. While it is a very good idea to begin with, there is more than one time when it borders on laughable. That never helps a horror film. And then there's the acting. At times it works quite well. Others, I had to laugh. The kid, Brendan Sexton III, did a good job.It is very creepy, though. In fact, you may indeed have a little trouble sleeping in the dark the next night. It's definitely worth a view at least once, probably more. Just don't expect your new favorite scary movie. 6/10 stars.Jay Addison "},{"Title":"Not bad, frustrating.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is by no means bad. I found it to be extremely intriguing and interesting. The reason that people are giving this such pitiful reviews is because it doesn't follow the simplistic, step-by-step explanation in the end. It causes you to think and you will be confused and have many different ideas floating through your heads. It's a movie that really should be watched numerous times so you can fully comprehend it, though even then it might be difficult. The bottom line is that this movie is not bad at all, it is very psychological and requires deep thought. This, however, tends to cause a lot of frustration and confusion in people, which is why they call it a bad movie. I know because the first time I watched it I felt the same way. After I thought about it and watched it again it showed it's true artistic colors. There was a reason this movie won Best Director and was nominated for Best Film at the Sitges - Catalonian International Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie+ Whats the name of Song on Radio in beginning","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" this was the best movie i have ever seen, every second of it. I think its awesome because it scared you without things jumping in front of the screen and it didn't have nudity in it, like all the other horror movies throw in. Also it left you hanging, it made you assume and i think that scares you more then anything. Also the cameras they used were amazing. I'm into Urban Exploring and miss this place. Great movie, One question about the soundtrack, when Gordon and Phil are tuning the radio in the beginning, what song is playing with the guitars? I like how it sounds and would like to download it! hah thanks and awesome movie! "},{"Title":"Very Underrated Horror Film","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had the pleasure of seeing this film by accident. I was channel surfing one evening and because nothing else was on, I chose to watch this film. I was glad I did.I never even heard of this film and I wonder why. It was an intelligent film. Truly disturbing. In an age where horror is all about being chased by a madman or spirit only to end with blood and guts, I can see why this film was sadly overlooked. I am a huge fan of the type of horror I just described, but I also like a psychological thriller that makes me think and continue thinking long after the movie is over. This it that type of film. It has been a couple of years and I still think about this movie.Although I don't think so, some may consider this movie to be slow, as you don't really know what is going on until the end. It keeps you guessing the entire time, which is what I liked most about this film.I was very impressed with this movie. The acting was good and very convincing. Josh Lucas is in this film. He is a pretty big actor now, but he wasn't at the time. I saw his potential in this film. David Caruso was also good, but Peter Mullan as Gordon was the best.This is not your typical horror film. If you are looking for a gore fest, this film is not for you. If you are looking for an intelligent thriller that stays with you long after viewing the film, rent this movie or consider buying it. You will not be disappointed. I am glad I accidently watched this film. It is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"from session 9 to the machinist","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" walking all the way thru life on the crime street. excellent work by director b. Anderson whom i suspect was chosen to direct the machinist thanks to the skillful manner he handled the split personality, the Blair witch project inspired, session 9 case. nice, flowing camera work, combined with natural harsh lighting (not dogme 95, mind me), and HD. the possession meets personality disorder case is already a sort of cliché (see fight club & co), however it is a good thing the director & screenwriter chose to throw in the mix the idea of perennial evil, the one that lives in the wounded and the weak. another good thing about this feature is the atmosphere it creates (it has something of the cine-verite meets mockumentary camera work of the Blair witch project) by using long shots, steady cams lingering and slow tracking shots. the use of live sound, too. at a first look it looks like a low budget indie, on a second look it has some elements reminding of very atmospheric eerie stuff like fear x. "},{"Title":"Very Good but.... Not Extremely Great.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was recommended this movie by blockbuster online. I read all the great reviews on it and rushed to my local blockbuster to pick up a copy. I will say that this was a very good movie but the best and most scary? Hardly. The creepiest thing in this movie to me was the taped sessions with Mary. They made the hair stand up on the back of my neck. To think there are people out there with that kind of disorder is disturbing. I really enjoyed the cast even David Caruso who I have never liked. I thought he was terrific in this movie. The one complaint that I have about this movie is that it was shot mostly in the daytime with the sun shining bright into the asylum. If this would have been filmed near dark or even with cloud cover I think it would have added to the eeriness of the location. I will admit, I did not figure out who the killer was until the end. I never saw it coming and I was really confused as to what was really going on during the entire film. As for the ending, it was nothing really new. I can think of one other movie that was just like this but I won't spoil it for other viewers who have not seen this. Overall this is worth seeing. 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"An underrated psychological thriller","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 revolves around a man Grodon Fleming (Peter Mullan) and a cleaning crew assigned to decontaminate an old mental institute. Due to strict time constraints and personal tensions among the crew problems arise as the crew struggles to meet the deadlines. However as events unfold it begins to seem that something is not quite right with Gordon, and that maybe some of this can be attributed to the mental institute itself.Session 9 is a disturbing psychological horror that twists and turns leavings the viewer on the edge of his or her seat wanting to know what's going on. The horror behind Session 9 lies not in excessive blood and gore, but behind the implication of violence and the depths of the human psyche. The story ends with an incredible yet tragic twist that will leave the viewer unsure whether to feel sympathetic or angry.Having a very small budget Session 9 is a film that is not as well known as it should be. It is, however, not a film for somebody who expects to see a masked man killing off random teenagers, nor is it for people who expect nostop action and cheap pop-out scares. Expect a rather slow paced yet intelligently immersive film that will keep you thinking throughout.8/10 "},{"Title":"Clever spooky thriller","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had been meaning to get around to seeing this movie for about a year, and having just seen it last night, i really really enjoyed it, it was well paced, without giving you too much, allowing audiences to use there imagination and work out the twisty plot.I kind of believed it to be full of ghosts and things but by the end of the film you become aware of the phsycological meaning of the film, this gives you a creepy feel that it isn't all that you see in a movie that's always scary but what's in the human mind.It's great how your lead to believe all the dark secrets are locked in the old asylum, but is later revealed that hidden secrets are held also with the cast as the renovation workers inside the house. Also you get the eerie feel like the house has a dark possessive influence. There are some moderately creepy moments in it and some kind of, 'what the heck is going on?' parts, in a 'need to know way', the ending was to me quite unpredictable, so it keeps you hanging right on till the end, a definite, must see 'twicer' to realise all those crucial plots.The entire movie was creepy and clever and I'd recommend it to anyone after a cool original, phsycological chiller. Also check out the extra footage on DVD for interesting stuff on the old asylum etc. "},{"Title":"One of the better horror movies i've seen.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" But not the best unfortunately. Being a fan of the survival horror game series Silent Hill and a rabid hater of boring stupid slasher flicks like Jason XI Jason vs. The New York Jets and Santa Claus, i'm always attracted to films that don't dumb down to the BOO! AHH! tactics of most horror films. While I would like to say this is my favorite horror movie, i'm afraid that place is taken by the Excellent horror movie In the Mouth of Madness.**WARNING SPOILERS*** The premise of horror in this movie is based around an abandoned mental asylum and a crew of hard working joes contracted to clean the place of asbestos. Actually its based around the fact that being cooped in this asylum of madness plus the stresses of work and life are leading them to possible insanity. This wasn't done, TOO terribly well in terms of story progression since I got the fact that Gordon was ultimately going to be the one to go bonkers and kill everyone. However, the feel and emotion of pure eeriness really got to me, I really felt the un-easiness of the setting and like many others have stated the whole mood really crawled under my skin. Other than that not too much of a horror factor since the film has the problem of being predictable but instead of being surprised or horrified from the ending, what creeped me was how I felt Gordons emotions at the end after his spree. The wall full of pictures covered in blood, the leaning on the wall weeping talking on a phone with no battery. Thats what got me, and since i've only seen this movie twice I'm still not sure if Gordon killed his family or not, I believe he did since I felt like the whole ending bit was to suggest he did. The whole thing about Simon being the evil in all of us, and if we're of weak constitutions he can take control I think was done fairly well but like one user stated maybe came a little too late. It would've been more interesting to me to see Gordon fight Simon through the whole movie and then lose the fight and regret his weakness to his own inner evil. **SPOILER END**But overall it's a fine horror film that I recommend to anyone who enjoys REAL movies as opposed to 2 hours of a man in a costume running around scaring rappers and playboy bunnies. I mean seriously, even though its a cliché joke used in a lot of cartoons those movies would be just as scary if some 60's pop band was singing while one of these slasher film baddies was chasing the teens around ala Scooby Doo. And please Hollywood don't further cheapen yourselves by trying to add in deep back stories to these baddies. There big, bad and kill everyone, the movie isn't any better if we find out they were nuts as a kid or got picked on, or were thrown in a furnace. But please cheapen it by having The Impossibles provide the chase music. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this a few years ago in a dark room at one of my good friend's house. To put it simply, this is the most terrifying movie I've ever seen in my life. There is something so real and raw about this film that just gets under your skin and sticks with you. The closed-quarters feeling of the mental asylum (where everything takes place) makes you feel like you are there, in the dark, damp, cold, silence of the complex. It reminds me of the recent horror flick Hostel, which is similar in the way it traps the viewer in it's own little twisted world. The plot is terrific, and if you piece everything together, it will all make horrifying sense by the end. I cannot recommend this film enough. Buy, rent, steal, do whatever you need to do to watch this masterpiece of horror. 9/10 "},{"Title":"session 9 thoughts...with das","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" at first i thought this movie was a bit slow, but quickly began to appreciate the work and creativity of the film making. this movie is visually pleasing, and i believe it is one you have to fully understand in order to like it. one must pay attention and not be blinded by their own expectations. if you can do this, then i think you will be walking away thinking about this movie for days after and realizing that it indeed is a good film. now about the story...near the beginning i definitely thought that the place was haunted by it's past and the patients. for example, when hank is taking the coins and belongings i thought that perhaps the patients got angry that he was stealing their things so they began to torment and hunt him down for doing this. (the scene where he was running through the tunnels in the dark and saw the figure was pretty creepy!) now, after i saw phil talking to the two guys, i pretty much figured it was having to do with drugs, but at the same time it made me suspicious of him. especially since hank turned the corner was obviously confronted by something. when it was confirmed that phil was a pothead, it made me think that they are totally setting this up that he is a crazy man. i had the impression that he wanted hank gone so he killed him. (...stealing amy, being a jerk all the time to him, wanting craig on the job instead) it had me distracted from noticing a lot of the little details having to do with gordon. as for him, i figured he was just distraught from the family problems. he had a weirdness about him the whole time and once the family issues came to attention it was automatically figured this was the reason. now when phil found hank, he was so calm about it i confirmed that phil was the bad guy. but when jeff freaked out and ran to gordon's truck and ate his oreos i had a confusion moment because it was obviously gordon by the way jeff was reacting. i didn't know at this point if the people were really getting killed or if the scene cuts with screeching noises were just jump factors. i was completely blind to suspecting gordon. i think part of the reason for this is, they make you like gordon, they make you feel sorry for him. i also thought at some points that he was sick in a physical way from breathing in so much asbestos (seriously)...and i think they wanted you to think it was phil, they were putting blame on him in many ways(drugs, arriving early, the phone call to amy, the anger, going behind gordons back and telling about him hitting his wife, finding hank without much reaction, etc...) this really should have been a big neon sign to me that it was gordon. but it just didn't hit me. i was somewhat disappointed thinking it was phil because it was turning into so many other story plots with a twist...so i was very happy when i realized i was wrong and gordon was the crazy man. i think it was done well, and it makes you want to watch it again to catch all the clues.i liked this movie, i would recommend it to anyone.there were a couple things i am not exactly clear on 1. gordon being so weirded out with finding the coins 2. gordon seeing the blood on his fingernails (blood from killing people? another reason i thought he might be ill) ...well i think that is it. and before i go, i must say that craig was one gnarly lookin dude. "},{"Title":"Very well done, intelligent and realistic horror","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is fully developed, mature, and sensible (if horror can ever be considered as such). It is an intelligent movie, with a twisted, deeper plot than in most horror movies. The story delves deeply into real psychological phenomena, horrific medical procedures, and things that actually manage to confront us all in every day life. All of these things add up to ensure that the movie isn't ridiculously thrown together and entirely unfeasible.The major plus to this movie is the general lack of cut scenes. Most horror movies are compilations of random gory and graphic scenes played extremely quickly tied to a very loose plot- they only make you jump. This movie doesn't use cheap thrill mechanisms like cut scenes. It's layered nicely so that the plot and ideas in the plot delve into your brain and play on base psychological fears.Gore in this movie is INTENSE, but very contained, very tastefully (?) placed with meaning and intention.A few things in the story don't quite fit or make their point, but like any other movie, they do next to nothing damaging to the plot.Don't watch this if you're easily frightened by possession and the like- you'll be utterly petrified. And stay away if you've ever experienced extreme psychotherapy type things. You'd also end up in a mental ward ) "},{"Title":"Under-rated gem for all horror fans!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is a very, very good horror movie that stayed with me weeks after I watched it. The Danvers hospital backdrop was probably the best thing about the movie-- it was so spooky that I would never set foot in it after dark. But not all movies can take advantage of great settings; see the abysmal Boo! for example. Session 9, on the other hand, packs a wallop.The acting is quite good, as well-- none of the giddy idiocy that so often plagues horror movie casts (especially those movies aimed at teen-aged audiences). And the script and direction builds a palpable sense of dread as the movie proceeds.It's not without flaws. See the excellent review here by Bingo_Crepescule; I agree with just about everything he says about the film's failure to draw out the implications of the taped sessions or of Simon's presence. If the writers had fleshed out those elements and given them their due, this could have been an all-time classic along the lines of The Shining. Even so, the film as it stands is so much better and smarter than most entries in this genre, and so genuinely creepy (with imagery that lingers long afterward), that one can forgive its shortcomings.Session 9 is one of the best (and least well known) horror movies that I've seen in the last 5 years. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Darn Good","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was one of those horror flicks that really makes me angry at the state of scary films today. With crap movies like thirteen ghosts, ghost ship, darkness falls and the likes its nice to see a movie that doesn't have to be overly violent and gory to get its scares across.Stephen King once said in an article that writing a horror story is difficult because there is a temptation to show the audience all your cards but its often more fulfilling for the viewers if you leave it up to their imagination. If you show the 10 foot tall monster behind the door the audience is likely to think Oh, a 10 foot tall monster I can handle, but a 30 foot tall one would be too much! Session 9 did a great job of letting your mind take control in the right places and actually showing you in other spots.Overall a pretty damn good film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wanted to see this movie after seeing one trailer for it and then seeing it in the movie store. I picked it up and never regretted it. It was and is by far one of the creepiest movies I have ever seen. Well written, well thought out and even better played. For those who actually believed the Blair Witch existed this movie is actually more realistic than that one. You may have to think about this one to really get it. But after you do get it, it hits you. I thought that all the actors did a fabulous job. And I for one have always been a fan of Caruso since I saw him in Jade. But by far the best in the cast was Peter Mullan. At times you didn't know whether to hate him or feel sorry for him. It's worth checking it out. "},{"Title":"Creepy but not entirely a success","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Due to some strange synchronicity, I ended watching One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest and Session 9, back to back. Corny but true.To say that Session 9 was not good, will not do it justice. It was definitely creepy, but somehow the idea of running two plot lines in the movie didn't quite gel. It was as if they weren't too sure which will finally work in the end. Apparently a separate story involving a female inmate was removed as it was felt to be too confusing for viewers.Where it did well was its ability to disturb, and the suggestion that ultimately, we all have to confront our inner demons, in our own space and time. "},{"Title":"Tense","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" With tension thick enough to carve through, this movie builds up so that you just know something bad is going to happen, and you keep imagining it will be something supernatural. As Hank explains, everybody has an exit strategy, except Gordon. That's worth remembering as you watch.There's not a lot to explain without giving it away. This is a movie for a more thoughtful viewer, far beyond the typical slasher reel. The relationships between the men only highlight their isolation from each other. The brief flashes of camaraderie are strained at best.Favorite quote Who's Yanni? "},{"Title":"Old style thriller!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Loved this movie. I will watch this one again and again over the years to come. It is not a gore fest like the standard slasher films just a good old fashion thriller set in a creepy old insane asylum. It will keep you guessing and wanting more. The character development makes you feel for the good guys and dislike the bad. You will want to hear more and more of the tapes as the movie progresses, you must know how dark the mind can be. If you watch it on DVD do not forget to check out the alternate ending. Who is the antagonist and the protagonist? You will not have disappointed expectations! Do not watch this one in the dark and alone. "},{"Title":"Excellent on many levels.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie! And I am not easy to please. I watched it once, and I thought, Well, that was good. But I guess it was just someone's descent into madness. Then I watched it again and realized, Oh, it is a GHOST story.... So I watched it again and realized it worked on both levels, as well as a few more. It was mysterious, but it was explainable. It was real (as in it could happen), but it was spooky. The ghost story part of the whole thing is sublime. You have to really pay attention to follow it. The madness aspect was convincing, and a bit overwhelming. You end up sitting and trying to put it all together as a whole for some time after you see it and maybe see it again... "}{"Title":"* * * * * * * Out of 10","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I must say I was impressed by this film. It took the brave step of not relying on the tested and true methods of flinging blood and guts all over the place to win ratings. For those who need that brutal stimuli to enjoy a film, Session 9 isn't for you. There is only one scene that stands out in my mind as being gore and even that scene was handled tastefully. This movie relied on true terror to sell it's point as the men hired to renovate an old, abandoned asylum, wander around it's seemingly endless and dark corridors. I admit that, while I was watching this film, I was drumming my fingers, waiting for that ghost to just out at the screen from behind one of those dark corners or one of the previous inmates to be revealed still living there or something. But in the end, this is not a movie about ghosts lurking in dark shadows of a haunted asylum but the ghosts lurking in the dark shadows of our minds. This isn't a ghost story, it's a story about insanity. Having now watched the entire film, I am glad the writers and director stuck to their guns and not thrown in a ghostly happening, it would have dramatically lessoned the climatic ending. I'll be watching this one again. I'm interested to see how it holds up under repeated viewing since the ending is now known. "},{"Title":"Helllllloooo ... Gordon.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Truly creepy film. Uniquely about a group of men sans women who take on a Haz-Mat asbestos removal job in the old Danvers Mental Institution. The story is a creeping cold hand up your spine, and despite what others comment about it here, the ending wraps everything up rather neatly. So much so in fact that I watched it again just so I could study everything, while knowing how it all ends. A beautifully bleak background, an excellent cast, and some truly memorable lines will have many reccomending this film as a smart horror movie. Not in the least reminiscent of The Shining (as there is no supernatural protagonist), viewers have to keep in mind that the slaughter of the family happened before the job was taken. The killer was already insane to begin with, and Danvers sure didn't help. The small sub-plot of Mary and her many personalities keeps you engrossed, as through it's duration it is also explaining pretty much play by play what is going on around them. Just a remarkable film, through and through. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Weird.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i watched this movie last night as part of a horror movie week on television, mostly i was entertained by the fact it had actors in it i recognized (From CSI Miami, and CSI Las Vegas). as i got more into them movie, things just started happening which i can guess were supposed to be eerie, but they pretty much just made me thing 'what the hell?' i can't say it was a disappointing movie, or i wouldn't have watched the whole thing. It was just plain weird, but in some cases that's okay, it worked well in that movie. so rent it if you wanna see something odd, and just a little messed up. it made me laugh but there are some parts with not immense amounts of blood, but a fair share, there could have been many ways of making this movie scary, and many ways it could have been utter crap. personally i liked it "},{"Title":"Effective mystery","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If your in the video store and in the mood for a horror/mystery film that is more about story and style and has practically no blood than you might want to check out this little film. Story takes place at the Danvers Mental Hospital in Massachusetts that has been closed and abandoned since 1985. A crew of asbestos-abatement contractors are hired for the removal and once they get there it doesn't take long for them to hear about the sordid history of the facility. The head of the crew is Gordon Fleming (Peter Mullan) who has just had a baby but is having troubles in his marriage. The rest are Phil (David Caruso), Henry (Josh Lucas), Mike (Stephen Gevedon), and young Jeff (Brendan Sexton III) and they are trying to get their job done in one week in order to each get a big bonus. *****SPOILER ALERT*****Henry discovers some old coins and jewelry and when he sneaks back into the building at night to collect them he suddenly disappears. Mike finds some old tapes of a former patient named Mary so he listens to them and learns that she had multiple personalities. Gordon has started to act differently and this alarms Phil who thinks that he is under too much stress so he decides to talk with Mike about it. Weird things and even weirder behavior start up and when Jeff sees Henry standing in the stairwell this sends everyone searching for the answers in this old hospital.This film is written and directed by Brad Anderson who has shown promising talent in previous efforts and this is another example of that. Anderson does a good job of keeping the mystery hidden until the end but the most effective thing about this film is the use of hand held digital cameras in dark places that gives a Blair Witch style to great effect. A strong mood and creepiness is established very early in the film and it never ceases even in the scenes where the characters are just talking during their lunch break. You keep guessing as to whether a character is speaking for real or is it the possibility that an evil presence is inhabiting them? Some have said that they were disappointed by the ending but I think they are expecting to much because this is not an overly complicated story. Film is well made and the performances are all good especially from Mullan. Solid mystery and a genuinely spooky story make this a film to check out on a rainy night.  "},{"Title":"Feels like a film student's grade A entry","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just finished my second viewing of Session 9...Sometimes this film feels like it has the stamp of professionalism all over it, sometimes you don't really know what you're in for, since none of the actors were familiar to me.I had no idea where the plot was going from the start - hey, a film about asbestos decontamination didn't initially seem to contain much inticement to stay glued to the film.  But then you see the real life abandoned penitentiary (did I spell this right?) centre which I've seen featured on a few haunted house documentaries, then you get the idea of things.Session 9 has clearly taken elements of real life patients in the centre and threads it around the fates of the film's present day characters.  I thought it was generally quite well done, although if you're hardened to ghost stories, it's not immensely chilling.  And the ending I felt was a bit too hastily wrapped up (literally?) for the viewer to feel the full force of events.  Session 9 is an entertaining watch, but not a classic. "},{"Title":"This does not have a happy ending,,,","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've noticed that the horror genre in general,no matter how gross or despicable the films are,usually have to resolve with someup state of mind.Examples are,,,Psycho killer dies in the end,,,the haunting spirits are set free,two idiot teenagers learn life lessons from surviving the ordeal and fall in love,and blah,yada,etc,,,,,,Fortunately,Session 9 was not about making money,because,here comes the spoiler,this blue collar worker Gordan whacks not only all his co-workers,but also his wife,infant daughter,and the pet dog as well.One of the darkest endings to a film in the last 4 years,and it has made a few women I know with quite a disturbing, uneasy feeling at that end,so that they do not even wish to discuss it.The only other films with such a dismal last act of recent years has been The Ring and Jeepers Creepers-1. I recommend this to the blue collar crowd,as a warning.If you had a tough day just watch this film,and remember what happened to poor Gordan.The lesson to be learned is,,,NEVER buy a whimpy little dog that barks too much. "},{"Title":"Scared me","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Alright, its late and I am home alone.  I am flipping through the channels and this little puppy comes on.  I have got to admit that this scared me alot when I was watching it all alone in a dark room.I was really scared actually.  So I just suggest renting this one and watching it alone, in a dark room, at night.  It will freak you out.  Otherwise I really don't think its that great, its really all about the mood.  But oooo did it get me then!  "},{"Title":"Confusing, but all the more disturbing for it...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 often has you wondering when, where, or to whom a certain event is taking place.  It has a wishy-washy chronology that with one exception, does not serve to advance the plot, but rather to mess with the viewer's head.  But by doing this, Session 9 doesn't have to rely on a series of auditory or visual scares.  The most disturbing moments of the film are slow, and paced.  It won't exactly make you jump out of your seat, but it certainly will send chills up your spine.  Another aspect I liked was how well they used fear of the unknown, much in the way that M. Night Shyamalan did in Signs.  Although this movie isn't nearly as classic as a film such as The Shining, it doesn't have to rely on ghosts and creepy little girls standing in hallways.  All of the scares are real or just (audio) thoughts in the characters' heads.It isn't a brilliant movie, but it certainly delivers what it promises. "},{"Title":"If these walls could talk... they'd say Oooooooo","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN A SMALL TRACE OR NUTS AND/OR SPOILERS*Usually my comments are a lot longer than this, but I will keep this short and sweet.Session 9 was a really pleasant surprise. Down here in Oz it never recieved a cinema release, but that doesnt matter... it translates to DVD excellently, probably better off on the small screen actually.This one has a lot of atmosphere and it is genuinely creepy. I wouldnt say it's too scary... but sometimes creepy is just that much better. Anyway, this is a very entertaining little film.... however some people may feel slightly unsatisfied afterwards. Those are the people who have no patience or imagination and shouldn't even be renting this movie anyway.I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film, and genuinely creepy","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow! I just saw this, on a countdown for new years, and I was extremely surprised. Not only does the suspense, not to mention creepiness build up subtly during the film, the characters' interaction is great, and the whole premise of this movie was one that really leaves a spine chilling feeling after watching it, I know I'm still shaking. *possible spoilers* The whole part about Mary Hobbs was really scary. Almost Samara-scary actually. Brilliant movie all in all, I give it 8/10.  "}{"Title":"would be better with deleted scenes","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As it is Session 9 is an interesting and effective movie.  However it could be much better with the addition of the deleted scenes.As a suspense/horror film Session 9 suffers from lack of suspense scenes.  It does have a couple of good ones but could use a few more to keep the pace moving.  As the film progresses the viewer is kept interested by knowing that something is going to happen or be revealed.  Unfortunately not much happens until the climatic ending.  In other words the audience isn't rewarded during the movie for it's patience all the reward is at the end.Session 9 is one of those movies that I believe will become more entertaining upon multiple viewings.  Now that the viewer knows how the movie ends they can pick up hints, about what is actually happening, that went unnoticed the first time.Session 9 is a creepy movie (set in a closed down asylum it's hard for it not to be) with 2 good suspense scenes and an interesting climax.  Had the film makers stuck to their guns and kept the deleted scenes in it could have been better.  As it is Session 9 rates a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, psychological thriller.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is definitely one to watch. If you are a horror or thriller fan, you will appreciate the atmospheric attention to detail and story. This is how horror movies should be made. It proves that there doesn't need to be an onslaught of special effects or an abundance of blood and gore to be disturbing. Why this movie wasn't released in theaters is beyond me. I don't need a movie to be a big studio blockbuster, chock full of special effects, and an insane budget to get me interested. Some of the best movies are like this one, quiet, understated, well written and directed, with good performances. I hope to see more like it in the future. It's nice to see David Caruso do work like this. Peter Mullan is perfectly cast as Gordon, and the rest of the cast works well. I have to mention the location for this movie, Danvers State Hospital in Massachusettes, because it THE element in this movie that brings it to life. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent addition to the horror/chiller genre.  Moreso when put next to its contemporaries.  Not overdone in the gore, suspense or creepy categories.  But a good combination of all three to keep the viewer entertained.  Good acting and quality directing complete this.  I highly recommended this film to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Interesting but sadly not scary.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Glad I watched Session 9, its an interesting movie, but even though I watched it at night, alone, with the lights off and really wanting to be scared, it still didn't manage to frighten me, which, to be honest, normally is not a hard thing to do.I don't understand why it didn't scare me.  Creepy?  Yes, Scary?  No.  It had all the usual elements required to do the business, especially the seriously spooky abandoned asylum but still failed to deliver.I still recommend a viewing if you like something different but could have been a really scary film, which is a shame.  "},{"Title":"subtle, atmospheric horror","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The comtemporary horror film is awash in music video visuals and pop music sountracks.  What Brad Anderson does with this film is create a classic horror movie, the kind of horror created by what you can't see, what you think you hear. Peter Mullan is terrific as Gordon, and David Caruso, even in his lean years in awful movies like Jade, has always been a terrific actor. What a terrific little video store find this movie is. "},{"Title":"9 1/2 out of 10","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The basic plot is exactly that, basic, overused, tired.  A group of people in a creepy location, affected by a supernatural force.  However, Brad Anderson has breathed new life into this cliche'd horror subject.  The film is deliciously scary, but not in a waiting-for-something-to-jump-out-at-you way.  The films atmosphere is drawn mainly from the location it was filmed; Danvers State Mental Hospital, which is an actual location of the same name. Instead of falling into the trap of rushing the plot and racing towards the good stuff, Anderson shows poise and patience and sits on plot lines and allows the four men's stories to unfurl naturally.  All in all, a great psychological film for everyone.  Even those who are not prone to watching scary movies. "},{"Title":"Excellent spooky thriller -----","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Didn't know anything about this movie before renting it and was pleasantly suprised to find how good it is! I've read some of the other reviews here and have to say that there are some pretty harsh criticisms. Sure there are some improbable moments, but nothing more than you usually find in a horror movie. This movie excels in creating a genuinely tense and disturbing atmosphere. The performances are great, the ending holds everything together and gives the viewer just enough info to backtrack and work it all out. "},{"Title":"A solid scary movie, but lacks at the end","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everything leading up to the end is just right- the suspense it creates with the gradual insanity and the Session 9 tapes being played- make you rightfully scared.  Keep an open mind at the end though- B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Shining meets Jason and Blair Witch Holds The Camera","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I haven't decided yet if this film disappointed or delivered or did both.  Wonderful atmosphere and deliciously creepy without special effects (shades of the original Haunting).  No gals in skimpy outfits (a big plus)!  Effective use of darkness and sound and shadow.  (Hank's shedding of his clothing as he staggers through the darkness and the final moment we see him caught in the flashlight are particularly scary bits.)  And (SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER) this has to be the most original case of haunting/possession.  Sure, Jack Nicholson was possessed by the numerous unhappy souls of visitors at the hotel.  But when was the last time you saw someone get possessed, not by the soul of a vengeful demon, but one of a mentally ill woman's multiple personalities?  That was the the most interesting aspect of the film--I kept wondering how the taped sessions of Mary Hobbes were going to tie up with the rest of the plot, but with Simon's final lines, the whole thing is tied up for us.  OUr killer's fears made him vulnerable to the possession--and I suspect that the taped sessions were what called up the spirit to begin. Still...I was disappointed when the last twenty minutes devolved into Someone's killing everyone...quick, let's separate and see how quickly the rest of us can get killed type ending.  But I'll give it props for how it played out until then.  (And--plot point/logic--what on earth were the former administrators of the asylum thinking when they left behind all the tapes and files of various patients?  If Mike had chosen another patient's sessions to listen to, would the results have been the same????) "},{"Title":"Horror for the thinking viewer!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a refreshing change from recent cookie-cutter horror movies!  Session 9 delivers a brooding, dreadful, and insidious psychological experience.I don't think the masses of moviegoers will like this -- there is no hip soundtrack, no bouncing female victims, no adolescents screaming amidst gruesome special effects, no million-dollar budgets here.  Conversely, psuedo-elitist film critics here will simultaneously find flaws in the narrative and plot.  There are many unanswered questions that remain after the film ends, and the narrative is muddled at times.But for that in-between group of film-lovers who have active imaginations, a taste for thinking movies, and a craving for something off the beaten movie path, then Session 9 is an excellent choice.It's creepy.  It's tense. And it's filled with those off-screen and unsaid demons that reach deeper than any corn-syrup special effects ever could. The psychology of both the characters and the viewers will combine nicely if you're made for this film.If you liked The Shining or Signs, then this is a good rental choice for you.8 stars out of 10. I would have given 9 stars if I could have figured out the killer's motivation more clearly. "}{"Title":"Really worthwhile... Better than many blockbusters!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was really surprised how genuinely chilling and well-crafted this story was. I could sense in the first minutes of Session 9 that not only the actors, but the writers and director, knew their stuff. Danvers, the long-closed mental institution in Massachusetts, is the perfect place to film this movie indeed, it had to have inspired it. I see a lot of films, and this story is superior to many bigger-named thrillers. I respect that director Anderson (perhaps out of budget-related necessity) edited the film as well as co-writing it; it keeps a singular direction going. Each actor carries off his character's quirks capably, from Caruso's quiet, close-to-the-surface angst to the actor who plays Mike's (he wrote the screenplay with Anderson) feelings of failure and perverse, consuming interest in the audiotapes of a mental patient's therapy sessions.  "},{"Title":"Frightenly Scary!!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I seen this movie just recently and loved it.  It goes along the same concept as movies such as House on Haunted Hill.  It is frightenly scary!! It's great to see such a good movie that might give you nightmares after watching it and the fact that it was filmed in an actual Mental Hospital is awesome.  You never know whats really going on til the very end so you have to keep on watching until its over.  I was on the edge of my seat the entire time and my heart was beating so hard 'cause of the fear that I got from watching this movie.  There's not alot of movies that can do that but this -THANK GOD- is an exception.  I am tired of seeing wanna-be-horror movies being played over 'n over again tryin' to outdo the others.  Take something as simple as an old abandoned mental hospital and feeding watchers fears with actual things that would scare the hell out of them if they were in he actors shoes and you got a great horror movie.  I would definately recommend this movie to all the horror movie fans out there.  This is a must see!! You wont want to miss this one when I know all you friends will be talking about it for years to come. "},{"Title":"Damn a great film/movie","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would just like to say a few words about this film. Weird in a cool fashion way. Strange in a pshykotic way.And damn its a weird story, but i like it, i like it much, actually very much. i was at home, the clock was 03.10, i was bored, and looked at my computer, and then i saw the film, i was not scared much, a little bit maybe, when the one person is walking around in the sewers alone. damn i was scared actually hehe )Well i decided to give this film 9 points, like it or not, good luck ) "},{"Title":"Very Scary, pulled me in..","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  I love to watch truly scary movies and they are becoming hard to find.  This one had a feeling much like The Shining, which is high praise.   I loved the setting too, very creepy and nice touches of Equipment placed about.  David Caruso's acting was not outstanding, but it was adequate.  I recorded it and then almost not watched it, but when I saw they were going to this huge abandoned Mental Institution, I knew it would get to me.  "},{"Title":"The tension is building... BAM!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie somewhat resembles The Sixth Sense in many ways, the movie is scattered about like a confusing puzzle, after a while i was ready to give up on this, but in the last ten minutes, it all crashes together finally making sense in a graphic and very disturbing yet satisfying climax. Heck, even i turned my face in the ending. My jaw is still hanging down from its hinges. Stick with this one folks, its a good one. "},{"Title":"I almost didn't watch this film ...","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is downright scary. The first few minutes of this film I wasn't paying much attention, but soon I had dimmed the lights and was glued to the set. Everything about this movie rises above today's standard horror movies -- the script, the acting and above all, the location. Danvers Mental Hospital is one place I'd never be caught alone in. It's a fresh twist on the old haunted house plot. Watch this one in the dark, and you won't sleep without a light on!9 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"That's what I call a Horror movie","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I give 10 stars to this movie just because, as a Horror movie, it does what it should do to you Scares the s*** out of you. There's no sign of monsters and freaky creatures. And that's why Session 9 is so terrifying. It represents the real fear. It kept reminding me of  The Blair Witch Project as I was watching it. Although The Blair Witch Project is some kind of a documentary, but Session 9 is much more realistic than The Blair Witch Project.Of course, some puzzles of the story remains unsolved but who cares. The only thing you should know at the end is the identity of the killer.The movie contains much dialogues but it never bores you, and also some breathtaking scenes which are remarkably directed.I'm not a fan of Horror movies but I highly recommend it to Horror film lovers. "},{"Title":"slow but good film","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had a hard time getting through this film at first, but it slowly drew me in, and when it was over I was glad I stuck with it. My biggest complaint was the speed at which it progressed. I found the acting to be so-so. Caruso always seems to play the same tough guy, but fatherly caring role. Gordy was confusing, Mike was the best out of em all.But as I stuck with the movie, then it started to draw me in. Things started making sense and also got more complicated at the same time. The mystery was well done. The atmosphere of the film was excellent. I've spent time in abandoned buildings, and the film makers did a good job at capturing the sense of darkness when stuck in a place with no lights. That one scene with josh was excellent.So rent this movie. Be patient, and let the film draw you in. you'll be glad in the end. PS> the alternate ending scenes on the DVD were an interesting take, and I almost wish they incorporated that line of the story more. But I liked the original ending the best. good job. "},{"Title":"scared the crap out of me","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ok its real simple if you did not like this film take the pepsi chalenge i dare you to watch this movie in a large house all alone at night, i mean i did and i was scared i mean wow, a horror movie staring only men in there 30s how original, i enjoyed it and many of my friends are to scared to watch it, i would say its the scariest movie ever or at least in the top 5!   "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 was quite interesting and haunting.  I could feel Simon's presence in the halls of Danver State Hospital, which was very scary.  This film is not a slasher flick, but just as scary.  Another good film overlooked. "}{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Living only about 10 minutes away from Danvers State. It was good a movie was made up there. I've had an interests in the building for a long time. The movie was something that gave me a good scare. Theres a lot I know about the place and this is added to my list. Brad Anderson did an excellent job. Keep up the good work Mr. Anderson!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Living only about 10 minutes away from Danvers State. It was good a movie was made up there. I've had an interests in the building for a long time. The movie was something that gave me a good scare. Theres a lot I know about the place and this is added to my list. Brad Anderson did an excellent job. Keep up the good work Mr. Anderson!!!! "},{"Title":"does not reach its potential","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie should have been a lot creepier. It's set in a decrepit abandoned asylum, but the somber darkness that implies just did not come through in this flick. Most of the inside shots are well lit, daytime shots; the vast expanse of the place (which it would be easy to get lost in) did not come through. I felt they could have used the location much more effectively.The story is ok, nothing new. As others have suggested, it has a lot in common with Don't Look Now. However, Session 9 is not able to obtain the slow, suffocating dark atmosphere of that classic. If you can, see the deleted scenes and alternate ending on the DVD. They made more sense. Indeed, you have to see the deleted scenes in order to better understand the relevance of the title, Session 9.Overall, the acting was good. The characters were believable and portrayed realistically.You might like this if you like slower, atmospheric suspense movies. For me, the atmosphere just was not there, though. "},{"Title":"Clever and Intriguing","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very neat and solid movie. It fails at every corner to fallinto the common traps of this genre, and in many ways defiescategory. The characters are crafted thoughtfully and this goes along way to make the story stand out.Intense and frightening, I recommend this picture to anyone wholikes character driven, intelligent films. "},{"Title":"A thriller that slowly gets under your skin","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When this film was released in theaters, I wanted to check it out.  I am a fan of the genre, and SESSION 9 looked interesting.   It could easily have been poorly acted/directed trash.   It came and went so fast that I dismissed it entirely.  When I saw it on the rental shelf at Blockbuster, I almost passed it by.  But since the only alternative was NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE, I decided to give SESSION 9 a try.  I know I would be able to tell if it was trash in the first fifteen minutes, in which case I could just shut it off and get to bed early.I didn't get to bed early.This is one of those thrillers that slowly gets under your skin.  It is well acted, directed, edited, and scored.   A perfectly paced chiller that doesn't immediately grab you... it gradually lures you into its web.  As it unfolds you find yourself wanting to know more and more... about the abandoned hospital, a mysterious patient from its dark past, and the 5 workers hired to remove the asbestos from the building.I was surprised when reading some of the other comments on IMDB that some people clearly didn't get it.   Did they shut it off before the last line?  Anyone who thinks this is a supernatural thriller about a haunted building is dead wrong.   This film is about the evil that lurks in the weak and the wounded.  It's not about possession or things that go bump in the night.   It's about seemingly normal people, like you and I (or are we normal?).  How many times have you read in a newspaper about a man who killed his entire family, but everyone in his neighborhood thought he was a friendly guy?  How many times have you seen on the news a bunch of students questioned about a boy who shot his classmates, and heard them say, He was a great guy, I can't believe he did this.   SESSION 9 is about these people.  People who lost their jobs unexpectedly, when they had a family to feed.   People who were dumped without warning by someone they desperately love.  The weak and the wounded... slowly suffering underneath their complacent facade.  Even those closest to these victims can't see the volcano within them about to erupt.  That's right... they are victims, not villains.   People who turn against others because they couldn't find help for themselves in time. What makes this film so genuinely scary is that it opens your eyes to the thought your closest friend... a co-worker... or family member... even your life partner... could be about to explode.   And you won't have a clue... until it's too late.A first rate thriller... engrossing not only because of the taut suspense, but because SESSION 9 has a lot to say about the frailty of the human condition.  Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What do you get when you mix the Shining and Blair Witch Project?  You get Session 9.  This film started slowly but then continually pushed me to the edge of my seat.  Then it did what few films even attempt do, it created an ending that works! "},{"Title":"I need you to wake up now, and take a really good look at Session 9","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It wasnt until 2 years ago that I fully began to show an interest in independent films. I myself am a striving writer and director who really enjoys to watch flicks being made by lesser known (but still very talented) individuals.Session 9 is an amazing example of how great some low budget movies can be. It really is a truly deep and enigmatic film experience. It had a real sense of human psychosis and though the movie itself may only have had a few thrills, the overall structure to the film is where the real scary and disturbing factors lay. It was made in such a way that the story and characters were both introduced in a entwined fashion so that the characters themselves discover the truths of the asylum as they go about their business.I never got the feeling that Session 9 was trying to necessarily impress anybody, but instead tell a story in a smooth and creative way. It was what it was, and nothing more. While some of you may not appreciate that, I found it really made the movie. As in every other psychological thriller, the twisted and unexpected ending was there, but unlike other titles of its genre, Session 9's conclusion felt very natural and unforced. I personally get frustrated when a horror movie keeps a certain pace throughout the film, then all of a sudden out of nowhere the conclusion drops an over the top typical ending that leaves us feeling only moderately entertained. session 9 does not do this, while at some parts the movie seems a little slow, the payoff is so well presented that you'll want to watch the movie again and again and again just to see it masterfully play out.I loved this movie. The story unravelled so impressively that I couldnt help but pay absolute attention to what was happening. Everything said, and everything done, is forshadowing the shocking conclusion. I havent been this entertained with a psychological thriller since The Sixth Sense was released. Dont let the disturbing theme keep you from watching this Session 9, it truly is an incredibly told story. So wake up and take a really good look at this creative film! "},{"Title":"Well-done, creepy, atmospheric horror","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I finally saw Brad Anderson's Session 9 last night. This film was barely released on theaters last year, and that's a shame--it should've been seen by more on the big screen. Shot on hi definition digital camera technology (24p Sony camera to be specific), Anderson has managed to create a well-done, creepy, atmospheric horror film, perhaps the best horror film of 2001. Session 9 stars Peter Mullan as Gordy, a middle-aged man running an asbestos-cleaning crew, and his partner, Phil, David Caruso, in a solid performance. Both men and their crew undertake the job of cleaning out the rundown Danvers Mental Asylum, an imposing facility and a perfectly creepy location for a horror film. As the men set to do their jobs, they begin to uncover long buried disturbing events; one of them in particular finds a series of recorded 'sessions' with a young woman. There are nine sessions in all.. and one of the men listens to them incrementally, therefore the title of the film, Session 9. As the days of the week progress, the men deal with their ongoing issues and start to get on each other's nerves. Their tensions increase in the dark, decayed spaces of the asylum. Anderson skillfully plays with each of the men's damaged psyches to weave a narrative of fear, paranoia and horror; he also plays with the audience through careful editing, keeping them guessing right up to the end as to what actually unfolds. Just when you think you know what's happening.. you're proven wrong.In its feel, the film's comparable to Stanley Kubrick's The Shining. Both films manage to use location as character--The Danvers Mental Asylum is effectively the major character in Session 9. Session 9 very well stands apart from the current trend of MTV-styled horror flicks filled with teenaged casts and pop rock/rap/crap soundtracks. In fact, the film has a very appropriate, unsettling ambient soundtrack. A chilling, mature, psychological horror film for an intelligent, discerning audience.  "},{"Title":"a real contribution to the genre","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Subtle, deliberate, and and chilling - this is the kind of work the horror genre needs now.  The director of Next Stop, Wonderland returns to the Boston area for his filming location and gives new hope to the lovers of scary movies, without a hint of the parody or self-reference that has become so standard nowadays.The influence of The Shining is clear, but this is fresh, original, and highly inventive material.  It deserves the attention of any serious lover of cinema. "},{"Title":"great film, very unsettling","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this film.  I did not see any promotional materials prior to renting the movie.  I guess the advertising budget was relatively small.  The only comment on the video box was a comparison to the Blair Witch Project which almost made me not rent the film.  I did not like BWP, but I thought it was brilliantly marketed. Anyway, I would recommend this film to anyone who likes a dark and creepy ambiance wrapped around a tense but nonlinear plot line.  Enjoy!! "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the creepiest films I've come across in a long time. Just to think that one of the reviewers live close to the hospital!! I can just imagine how scared she was growing up with it.I think not all movies always need a plot. This movies plot is extremely simple. Do the asbestos abatement in 1 week. The plot in this movie is thrown out to us in the first few minutes then proceeds to meander towards it's terrifying ending. An extremely slow moving film but very effective in creating tension and edge of your seat fright. How bout the scene with Jeff in the basement as the light are going out or the untold ending that we all can easily guess. Man!! Freaky!The characters were built up enough as they needed to be. Why do we always need to know the history and background of characters? These were just a bunch of workers (everyday joes) who were just showing up for their daily work to earn their daily pay, just like you and me. I don't think there is much to know about them and I like it that way. They aren't complex/mysterious people, they are just simple folk thrown into a f'ed up situation.The acting was more than adequate I thought. It was nice to see David again! and Peter Mullan acting was just superb.I give this 8 out of 10ps. I never felt led to believe coins are evil.  "},{"Title":"Session 9 A Lesson Before Dying","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Some films can have such an effect on the viewer that as they walk away from the theater they're left speechless. This is usually the effect of a boring and uneventful film. If I'm not talking about the movie or have forgotten its plot and premise within minutes after leaving the theater, then you sir have hustled a dear two hours or so from my life and I don't appreciate it. A few months ago in February, days before my 25th birthday I came across the cinematic jewel called `Session 9'. Again I invested two hours of my time to eventually profit from a further understanding of human frailty, but more so of my own.Director and co-writer Brad Anderson has diverted from his usual life affirming romantic comedies (Next Stop Wonderland, Happy Accidents) and literally decides to show his uglier side. Session 9 is a modern day classic of a horror/suspense film and is the best film I've seen since Memento. The writing talents of actor/co-star Stephen Gevedon accompany the misery created herein Session 9. They together have combined their twisted minds to enter the most creepiest of exteriors, a place called Danvers State Hospital. It stands in real life and in the film as a physical `bat out of hell' disguised as an enormous once former mental institution now vacant outside of Boston, MA. What the hell would bring real people let alone characters in a movie to a place like this? Fate.Gordon and Phil are employer and trusted employee of HazMat Elimination Co., an asbestos removal outfit. After securing a job bid to remove the hazardous environmental elements from the abandoned building for renovation, Gordon takes the frustrations of work and newfound fatherhood home once more ensuing the spark for all the film's events. Still leaving you with immediate questions, work continues on. The first day of work introduces the rest of the crew and the unlocking of the subplot that drives our passengers through their fateful maze.While Gordon (Peter Mullan) seems too disillusioned to work or supervise his crew, others are given more texture to their personality as they interact. Phil and Hank (Josh Lucas) are constantly at odds with each other over what seems to be an ex-girlfriend of Phil's played by the ever-complex David Caruso. Witnessing the entertaining feud is Gordon's young teen nephew Jeff, played by Brendan Sexton III. Working in a place full of dark corners and basements tunnels may seem to be an ironic place of employment for someone with nyctophobia (abnormal fear of the night or darkness) but he copes. Mike (Stephen Gevedon) is `the brains' of the operation. He's content with knowing he's better than the unhealthy job he takes trade in still while humbling himself as a law school drop out. Then there's Mary Hobbes, a more than non-descript woman who needs no introduction whatsoever.By the end of the first day you'll meet them all in addition to a trio extremely close to Mary that Mike discovers. Learning a bit more of our characters each day at work brings you into a world of increasing tension and genuine primal fear of what you the audience are anticipating. Your skin will crawl as you hear things unfold each day. Though your eyes will shutter anticipating what you `think' you're about to see. So now you're in a mood where you don't want hear or see the torture that the filmmakers have set up for you, but why? Are you for once in a long time truly frightened by a movie you're watching? You will. So why end this review without further details? Well because actions speak louder than words and Session 9 is a lesson before dying. "},{"Title":"Not your run-of-the-mill horror movie","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you are looking for the latest teen splatter pick, don't rent this movie. If you enjoy a tense, atmospheric adult thriller,by all means, this is the one.  When watching Session 9 the first time, my husband came home when I had about 30 minutes left.  I couldn't even speak to him till it was over. It was completely engrossing.  As the other reviews said, the human characters were a little under developed.  But the main character is the hospital itself.  And it was magnificent.  Creepiness prevails in this one. Watch it in the dark.  Alone.  You will love it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Flick","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this one and rented based souly on the quick summary on the back of the box. What a good surprise. The movie was really well done, especially for its budget. I'm a horror movie veteran, and me having to use my imagination again was a great feeling. I found myself turning on lights in my room when it was still daylight out. I even had to stop the movie to take a break. Watching it alone...The ending makes complete sense to me. Go rent this one. The whole cast was pretty good. Brendan Sexton (Pecker, Welcome to the Dollhouse) has a mullet, Caruso makes you wonder what happened to his career since he is a damn fine actor.  "},{"Title":"One of the creepiest movies i've seen.....","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  in a long long time... session 9 had me breathing heavy at time along with the characters. I was very creeped out, felt anxious at time and had to shut my eyes at one point. Haven't felt like this since some of Hitchcocks old films. Okay, the acting wasn't spectacular, but the 2 main characters help up the film enough... I gave it a 10 just on the principal that it gave me the creeps, enough to not want to walk around my apartment with the lights off!!!  "},{"Title":"not too shabby","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  well done.  good decisions were made on this movie the way it was shot - which hinted at a more realistic documentary feel, less of a blockbuster cheesy scare flick.  the acting was fine, freakin perfect casting in some cases (the youngest guy on the team for instance).  the most frightening scenes appeared the most stylish, but i wont give any way.  most importantly, (spoiler) the villian is never seen.  only hinted at.  some have problems with the movies ending and how predictable it seems.  but behind the obvious slasher resolution lies the real plot of the movie....the idea that something resides in this old mental institution.  and something that will continue to take residence there.   thank goodness they took out all the scenes with the old lady! "},{"Title":"The best horror movie I've seen in years.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No 'hip, young cast', no music video-style editing, no self-referential humor. Instead, uniformly excellent performances from the small cast, a steadily building sense of dread, and the best setting for a horror movie ever. The awful, true history of the Danvers Mental Hospital permeates the film.I must disagree with previous comments that the characters are underdeveloped. In an era when horror movie characters are the most stereotypical of cliches, even the unlikeable Josh is portrayed as mutlidimensional, even sympathetic. Though David Caruso is the headliner, Peter Mullan is the true star and his performance is astounding. It's unfortunate that this fine actor, like this film, has been largely overlooked. "},{"Title":"very creepy, with a decent ending","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's too bad this movie got over shadowed when The Others came out. They both were great movies. Session Nine was simplistic and haunting. We have some asbestos cleaners fix up an old asylum and one of them   finds some old tapes recounting the counseling Sessions of a female inmate. Once we get going on the tapes the insane break-up of the woman's mind coincides with the break-up (psychologically) of the crew. I don't want to give away some key points in the movie. Don't mistake the footage of this as another Blair Witch rip off. It seems that it was filmed with digital cameras, Hi 8 or another brand. Anyway, the film is slow and don't expect a lot of blood; which gives it its creepy charm. David Caruso does and okay job but as a whole the cast is pretty good. I can't talk much about this film without giving away some things and also it's a film you need to see for yourself. If you like creepy things ( like yours truly ) you might want to try and give this film a chance. All in all, until next time!   "},{"Title":"GOOD HORROR FLICK","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am not a horror movie expert but I have seen enough to tell the good from the bad and this one is way above average. Reviews I have read have compared this movie to The Shining and I agree. The one difference is that by the end of the movie you are not sure who the killer is. To me this is important because I can usually tell who the killer is in the first five minutes. I will not go into details about the movie but from the reviews I have read people seem to have a problem with the character development and a confusing ending. Well in my opinion the shallow character development raises the who done it tension by the end. And as far as the confusing ending pay attention to the opening of the evidence box and what Simon says about where he lives in the end to understand it. When you rent this movie (and you will if you are a horror movie fan) WATCH IT TWICE! 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A dusty old scare...","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is set in the Danvers State Hospital, itself enough to set a nicely sinister mood reminiscent of even such schlock-o popularized shows as MTV's Fear.  Borrowing liberally from such site-specific horror films as The Shining (in terms of plot devices as well) with the volatile, quirky character development of Insomnia, it's an offbeat horror flick with enough character going for it to win over just about any post-Blair Witch cynic.The created tension between characters and location is tangible to the point that you are immersed in the institution itself, jumping at anything that moves.  Despite slow development and lack of outright gore, it is quite a frightening little piece.  Even light glinting off the dust particles seems to give them a mystique.  Sienna-tinted tones, peeling paint, and crumbling aesbestos-infested underground passageways mirror the decay of the characters personalities and interrelationships.Indeed, the characters are a little underdeveloped, but not to the point that it is distracting.  After all, one of the treats is watching the mystery unfold in the context of these personalities, to watch this crew start to simmer under the various pressures and personalized demons they encounter at the institution.  To a degree, I would speculate that what happens in the outside world of these characters isn't nearly as important as their interaction within the spectral context of this special place. Session 9 is nicely trimmed-down, with little excess to be distracting. You are given just enough information to let your mind roam into different scenerios - before long, your mind starts making up a slew of red herrings of its own, in addition to the ones presented by the director, Brad Anderson.  The performances by Caruso and Gevedon are especially of note, and along with the carefully considered plot movement, make this movie anything but dull.  "}{"Title":"Creepy, suspenseful and actually scary.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I won't bother to go over the plot in my comments; why ruin the movie for you?  Half the creepyness comes from slow watching things unfold as the movie progresses toward it's chilling conclusion.  This is one of the scariest movies I have seen in a long time.  Not too much gore, (except for the ending), violence and no sex.  The movie relies on good, old fashioned story telling and it does a great job.  The setting on it's own is enough to creep you out.  Don't mis this one.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Excellent, Unsettling Horror Movie","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  _Session 9_ is truly an overlooked little gem of a film. Just caught the DVD the other night and this is one scary, disturbing movie. The setting, the abandoned Danvers State Mental Hospital, an ACTUAL place, is one of the all-time great settings for a horror film. Just walking around it is enough to send chills up a person's spine. On one of the DVD commentary tracks, star Peter Mullen says it really wasn't very hard to get in character, as the whole place is f***in' creepy.Mullen plays the leader of a group of men employed to remove asbestos and other toxic substances from the building, in preparation for its use as a public administration building. Desperate for the job, he agrees to do it in a weeks' time and he and the four men under him are under a great deal of stress to get the job done. If they're successful, they'll receive a $10,000 bonus. The film follows them through each day of that stressful week as they get progressively more and more stressed out and as one of their number mysteriously disappears.This was an excellent, scary film. It has the same sort of unsettling vibe as _The Blair Witch Project_. There isn't a whole lot happening, until the gruesome conclusion, but just the atmosphere and the tension will keep you riveted to the screen. The DVD includes a bunch of great extras, including a whole deleted subplot, complete with directory commentary, as well as a section of storyboards to screen, and a brief look at the actual hospital where the movie was filmed. It's too bad this didn't get more attention when it was in theaters, but now that it's on video, here's your chance! "},{"Title":"Creepy!!!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes Thrillers or movies that make you think. This movie is the first in a long time that actually gave me the creeps. The atmosphere in this movie is so chilling. Each time you watch this movie you will see something you did not see before. I gave this movie *** stars out of ****. "},{"Title":"mixed feelings","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film did attempt to resist standard Hollywood formula, and there were some genuinely tense moments, but ultimately it engages in what I call irresponsible storytelling where the director can show any mish-mosh of unrelated scenes/dialog (red herrings and all), provided it's all made sense of in the last five minutes. Having seen this device used many times now, I've come to feel that it takes more than a tidy peek at the answer key for me to forgive a director his contrived roller-coaster narrative. Another good example of this was the disappointing Vanilla Sky -- or anything by M. Night Shyamalan (although in his case I do find it somewhat easier to forgive).  "},{"Title":"A true thriller","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I started the movie expecting to be scared and I was. The movie takes on several elements, and despite some plot holes and the last half hour that seems to drag a little, it's one of the best horror films yet. The music really adds the essential touch, and the isolation makes even the tape recordings sound even scarier. There are some unresolved issues concerning the characters, but perhaps that is to be expected and left up to your imagination. The film is very creepy and slows down toward the end, intertwining significant details in the plot to relate the whole story and end on both a mysterious and chilling note. I recommend this to anyone, but be forewarned, it can be quite intense. Very good film. Even makes you look past the faults you noticed while first watching. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I Don't Know Why You Bombed Last Summer","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The voluptuous decrepitude of the 130-year old Danvers State Hospital is a great setting for this study in psychological terror.  It doesn't take long for Session 9 to convince you that, if you had to remove asbestos from this cavernous and sinister place, a Gothic fortress famous for lobotomies, maybe you'd come unhinged, too.Brad Anderson's real success is in dropping compelling characters into his haunted house.  Plausible portraits of working class characters don't fall off the trees in Hollywood, and especially not in today's shallow teen-dominated horror.  Yet here they are, fleshed out with frailties, fears, losses and animosities -- a volatile mix primed to go off in the labyrinthine ruins. Both in atmosphere and narrative cleverness, Session 9 compares nicely with The Others, which also arrived in 2001 (but to much wider distribution and acclaim).  Anderson's film is as accomplished in its claustrophobia as that more expensive picture -- he shot on the new Sony digital video without a Kidman-sized budget -- yet it's much more ambitious and knowing, tendering its chills with sharp social observation and a pressing sense of the vile history of depersonalization that Danvers embodies.  The setting becomes a cage for his characters much as it was for generations of the mentally ill.No complaints from me about this one, which I enjoyed twice.  Three cheers for Anderson and his co-writer Stephen Gevedon; actors David Caruso and Peter Mullan, who give unnerving performances; and cinematographer Uta Briesewitz, whose finesse demonstrates that digital video can compete.  See it. "},{"Title":"Amazing visuals and sound, but broken story","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a nice effort at creating that slower, atmospheric thriller as another reviewer aptly pointed out, but it loses in not linking the story together, failing to throw the viewer right into the midst of the brewing insanity.  The story is very choppy and despite interesting performances by Mullan and Caruso, the characterizations are not as indepth and psychological as they could be.  I was left wondering what really drove any of the characters, but I was left ultimately impressed with the absolutely crisp, colorful and moody photography and delirious, gripping sound. Brilliant technical work on this movie; if only Anderson and Gevedon (as auteurs) would have really considered the story more and connected the missing links.  A notable attempt at breaking the boring current trend of teen schlock horror. "},{"Title":"short of its ambitions, but better than most","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this film is obviously an attempt to craft a slower, more atmospheric, spooky thriller. if you are a fan of cinema, you know how tough an act this is to pull off. tension is always a tough cookie to crack, and when the pace of a film is slow, it is easy to slide right over into boredom.anderson manages to navigate this particular tightrope fairly well. the film moves deliberately, but it always stays in motion. pieces of plot stir constantly, and thus the pacing never becomes tiresome.in the end, however, there are a few failures. particular pieces of the film hold no narrative thread, really, and seem forced after seeing the ending. and about the ending...in the face of what came before,it is a bit of a let down, again, almost cheating, by letting itself out of the tense corner in which it had boxed itself.still, it is an impressive piece of work. it is unfortuntate that this film did not get a wider release and a bigger budget than just about any film made this year. it contains a few moments of genuine all out fear and an excellent tense and creepy tone throughout. anderson and co. aim high, and come up a bit short, but still accomplish more than most films by mere dint of ambition. brad anderson is an excellent director/writer, and if this film, and 2001's fun and enjoyable happy accidents are any indication, he has HUGE things in front of him.i recommend session 9. "},{"Title":"Psychological thriller that demands second viewing","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ambience alone will provide serious thrills and chills for most horror fans upon the first viewing of Session 9. But a second viewing is almost mandatory to catch the subtleties of the storyline and to truly make sense of what's going on. I wasn't frightened at all the second time I viewed this. Rather, I recognized it for the warped character study that it is. There are some terrific performances (particularly by David Caruso and Peter Mullan) along with some pretty sizable red herrings. Biggest criticism the other 3 characters are poorly drawn.Some supposed know-it-alls on this site have erroneously compared this film to the likes of Don't Look Now. No, it isn't in that league. Much closer to Blair Witch or The Shining in feel and Erik Skjoldbjaerg's Insomnia in perspective.Check it out. Movies like this give us horror fans hope that the genre hasn't been completely prostituted by the likes of Scream, etc. My compliments to Brad Anderson for taking chances. Next Stop Wonderland took the romantic comedy to a higher level. Now he's done the same for the horror genre. "},{"Title":"A well crafted thriller in the vein of Kubrick's The Shining","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone interested in seeing a well crafted, creepy, intelligent, suspenseful, psychological thriller should rent or buy Session 9!Fans of Kubrick's The Shining, Amenabar's The Others, The Blair Witch Project or any Hitchcock Film will really enjoy Session 9!  I rented the video (had no DVD version at my Hollywood Video location) and now I can't wait to buy the DVD! Shot entirely on DV, the lighting is expectedly not so great (apart from one stand out scene with a flashlight), washed out in some shots, but the cinematography overall is very good. A wonderful score as well! This one definitely gets onto my personal 2001 top ten, and joins the list of some of my horror favorites!  "}{"Title":"This one was good","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is not for everyone but it is a well structured psychological thriller that will freak you out when you get to the end.  Peter Mullan is great as Gordon, a man losing it quickly.  David Caruso plays his good friend.  They and three other guys go to an asylum to fix it up. What they find there is terror...a slow terror that builds up slowly and eventually annihilates all in its path.  There isn't much action but the film is chilling since the atmosphere in the hospital is so dark and spooky.  The tunnel scenes were pretty creepy.  The ending is very interesting and this movie make take more than one viewing to understand and appreciate.  Gordon in the end is not exactly who or what he appears to be.  Mullan and Caruso do a good job as does the rest of the cast.  Worth a look... an impressive psychological thriller that doesn't let you go till the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Haunted House scarier without story","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 arrives on video this week and surrounds 5 characters that are given the contract to rid the abandoned Danvers State Mental Hospital of asbestos.  But hiding deep within the walls is a story of Mary Hobbes, a mental patient who once resided within the institution who still haunts the hospital.  Or does she?  Tapes are played by a member of the team (called Sessions) which reveal Mary's interviews with the hospital physician while crew members fight personal demons which result in their ultimate demise.  The setting for the movie is as creepy as a haunted house has ever been.  Unlike the large, lavish rooms of Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, here, all rooms are small with chipped paint, missing ceiling tiles and little light. David Caruso (remember him?) plays an admiral role as Phil, the team leader while Peter Mullan (from My Name Is Joe) plays the company owner and Supervisor.  Each member of the team has a story and the movie takes its time to lead us down various plotlines that never seem to pan out.  It leaves you wondering if the intent of director Brad Anderson was to produce a horror, a thriller or as it ultimately becomes, a drama.  Although each back story is somewhat intriguing, you keep hoping the hospital would come to life and use its eerie feel to scare the pants off you.  But this doesn't happen.  A Blair Witch Project type of ending could have been ideal for this film, rather than playing with our 'guess who did it' deductions.  Kudos can be given to the director for keeping most of the violence off screen, but since the film does not reveal any true genius, you wonder if it was more of decision that was financial in nature (it costs to cut people up).In short, rent it on a night when you can stay up late, turn the lights down low and hope that the house provides you with atmosphere.  If you don't buy into it right away, the biggest horror will be the $5.00 you spent on it at the video store.GMO "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start out by saying, guys like Slayer 4 who left a comment earlier, are the reason horror films have gone to Hell.  They are all the same, made for preteens, who have shown by some of the preceeding comments left here, don't even know how to structure a sentence, much less what preceeding means.  On to the review. This was a great movie.  I have not been this freaked out by a movie in a long time.  It wasn't gore that freaked me out, it was atmosphere, dialouge, and acting.  Imagine that kids!  A movie that relies on story.  What a novel idea!  The Sessions in Session 9, where some of the freakiest parts of the movie.  The way Mr. Anderson (director) had the doctor patient sessions on tape to sound many years old was amazing.  Listening to this movie in my living room the other night, it felt like Simon was there with me.  Not often does a movie relay a feeling so well.  If you want to truly be scared by a story, then rent this flick.  If you just want to see blood and gore, then just wait on I Know What Urban Legend you Screamed About Last Valentine's Day, Which Somehow Fell on Friday the !3th in My Small Teenage Mind  I'm sure Freddy Prinze Jr. will be in it for all you who don't like to think out there.  If you don't like this movie, then you probably didn't like the Shining, and, well, to put it bluntly, I think it's time to pull the plug on the life support for you brain-dead individuals out there. WATCH THIS MOVIE! Thanks for your time, and don't take anything I said personally.  These are just the thoughts of one horror fan, who is sick of the same movies over and over again, and hopefully a movie like this, and a movie like The Others, can change that. Spideyy "},{"Title":"Scary, a few problems, but the best in recent years","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film develops slowly and reaches a good, disturbing climax. You are constantly changing your mind to who did it.There are only a couple of scenes where you get scared properly, making you jump. But there is an ominous feel to the film, where nothing seems quite right from the moment that you start watching.The acting is good, the characters developed nicely. You don't really care about anyone, except the owner of the company, Gordon.The music starts getting scary too early, spoiling the nice technique of filming in daylight mainly.A subplot was removed from the film (which, personally, I think would have made it better), and this is noticeable in the editing, explaining seemingly weird behaviour at points. "},{"Title":"a slow-paced, psychological thriller","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A psychological thriller that has its moments, but much of the movie is boring and a bit meandering until the big payoff in horror terms at the end. Up until then, the motivations and reasons behind each of the characters behaviors are really a bit odd, with their tension-filled interactions a bit puzzling and not very revealing about anything, except to create a sense of dread that is uniform with the overall dreadfulness of the place they are working in.The overall tone and spirit of the movie is similar to Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, as one previous commentator has noted,  but without that movie's great character and plot development. Still, it is not a bad movie. For those looking for a diverting horror experience with a creepy and surprise ending, this movie ain't half bad.      "},{"Title":"It's actually really good.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I have heard basically the same thing from everything I read.  Great, but the ending is terrible.  Well, that is not the case. SESSION 9 is a great little piece od suspense, and the ending isn't that bad, in fact, dispite running slightly to long, the ending is great.SPOILERS**********************SPOILERS**************************SPOILERSSESSION 9 dir by Brad Anderson is the story of five guys who have a week to remove all the Aspestos from an insane asylum that has been closed for about 15 years.  The movie begins with an introduction, of sorts, and then goes day by day, starting on Monday and climaxing five days later.The movie lets you know right from the start who the villain is.  But, as the the film progresses, Anderson leads you astray, so by the end you are not quite sure if your original guess was correct.The key to this movie is the characters.  They seem real and each is developed just enough.  But, as some have complained, we never learn much about them.  I think this lends itself to the mystery of the film.  Why did Mike leave Law school?  We never know, but does it really matter.  It just makes Mike more mysterious.  At the core of the film is really two stories.  One of the men, and one that happened years ago.  One of workmen (Mike) stumbles unto a cache of recording of a series of interview sessions between a split personality and a doctor.  (They total nine, get it, Session 9)  Both stories are told simultaniously and not until the end, do we understand what they have to do with each other.The split personality has three identities, the childlike Princess, the protective Billy and Simon.  We do not hear Simon until the end.  But it is Simon who talks to Gordy throughout the film.  And when the chilling final line of the film is spoken my Simon ( Doctor Where do you live, Simon  Simon I live in the weak and the wounded ) We finally understand that madness has a voice.A very suspensful and finely crafted film all around. "},{"Title":"Creepy, disturbing and yet curiously refreshing","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It gave me everything Hollywood does not.  I had no idea how the movie would end.  I had no idea what would happen in the next few moments.  Effects were used sparingly.  Characters were believable.  No stupid side-plots.  No pandering to the cookie cutter demands of the masses.This will definitely become a cult classic.  I hope Brad Anderson continues in this area because I felt he did a masterful job in conveying this story.  The film is laced with details that provide subliminal foreshadowing.  It also has a number of red herrings thrown in.The film is not perfect.  There are some components which didn't quite make sense but these are very few.  The only complaint my friend from Danvers had was that the town historian is a man and not a woman, as was mentioned in the movie. ;-)Funny thing... I heard some people proclaim That was stupid or I don't get it at the end of the film.  Same thing happened when I saw Jacob's Ladder and The Matrix in the theater.  Oh well. ;-)If you like movies like Scream, I know what you did last summer, or Urban Legend don't waste your time watching this movie.  You probably won't get it. "},{"Title":"A lot to like, but...","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My disappointment in this film comes more from lost potential than actual problems with the film.  With the setting and the concept, a real white-knuckler could have been produced.  The scene with Hank digging out his treasure all alone at night was the moment I thought the film would really take off, but it was not to be.  A solid film in all other ways, but when I think of what it could have been.  O boy!   "},{"Title":"An excellent film, good characters, well-acted, with plenty of suspense.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting set of guys, portrayed by some terrific actors, in an abandoned, definitely spooky former State Mental Hospital, find mental tunnels which lead to unnerving ends.  The film has a very every-day, workingman, set of characters, each unique and sort of appealing,who find themselves in unsettling circumstances.  Great performances by Peter Mullen and David Caruso, an original concept, realistic set design, and music which helps without dominating, make for a quality film.  We thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Haunted Insane Asylumns and Possession - A winning combo!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Creepy, bone-chilling, and on-the-edge-of-your-seat suspenseful!I loved this movie. I thought it was very well crafted with just enough mystery woven into a very rich plot. I don't need every nuance spelled out for me (imagination is a wonderful thing!), but for those who do, a few unexplained events may leave them frustrated. Each actor gave a brilliant performance and it was wonderful to see David Caruso - in very fine form - again. Mr. Mullan was also superb and his close-ups reminded me of a movie that I saw as a child that has always stayed with me - A Twisted Nerve.Especially recommended for Catholics (or anyone else that believes that possession is possible) and aficionados of mental hospital architecture! "}{"Title":"A relatively good piece of horror!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is the latest graduate of the Blair Witch School of Horror Filmmaking, which has bred such digital camera films such as Series 7 and The Last Broadcast (which actually preceeded it, but no matter).  Session 9, fortunately, is near the head of the class on this list.  It may be flawed, and may not be very original, but it does not disappoint.The plot centers around five men who are given a job to clear the asbestos out of an abandoned sanitarium.  If they get it done in a week, they each get a $10,000 bonus.  The group really needs this job, so they are all too willing to do it.  Unfortunately, tensions start rising, and...this place...is not...what it seems.This film was shot entirely with digital cameras, but it is not the spew-inducing style that had Blair Witch fans running to the bathrooms.  The film's visuals are very controlled and handled well.  The fact that Session 9 is able to tell its story in a more realistic format WITHOUT sacrificing style singles it out from others in its league.  A big factor is the sanitarium, which is a wonderful location, filled with many dark hallways and drab, vacant rooms.The true assets of this film, though, are the characters.  After seeing The Others, with its cardboard-stock residents, I was pleased to see men that I understood and cared about.  The cast, which includes Peter Mullan, David Caruso, Brendan Sexton III, and co-writer Steven Gevedon, flesh out their characters and make them real.  Believe me, that is the ONLY way that you can ever get scares out of a movie.  When we care for the characters, we get scared with them.Overall, Session 9 is not perfect.  There are a few loose ends, and the ending, while very surprising, did not fully satisfy me.  Still, it was a rousing bit of entertainment.  It felt real, it was effective in providing scares, and I walked into the blistering sunlight, thankful that I am perfectly sane, and do not remove asbestos for a living, for fear of ever having to go to a place like that. "},{"Title":"Creepy and atmospheric","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 doesn't have things jumping out at you like your typical horror films,  but it does manage to generate a great deal of intensity and suspense, thanks in  particular to the creepiest house/building since The Shining. The next time I walk  down a dark corridor I'm sure that images from this film will still haunt me. This  film's in very limited release, but it's worth checking out.My rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I would agree that this is the successor to Blair Witch","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Done in Digital 24p, which looks pretty good by the way, the film packs enough of a thriller/scare quotient to garner a strong thumbs up. Film has a gritty look and a great location. My only complaint is that it actually could have been a bit scarier. I saw S9 the same day as The Others. Session 9 could have used more dynamics in providing greater tension a lesson they could have learned from The Others. But all in all a film worth seeing. "},{"Title":"check out some clips","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, this a creepy film with a unique look. I'd say it's Shining-esque with a little Blair Witch (but with much more craft). I also thought about Nic Roeg's Don't Look Now. For any one looking for an eerie alternative to big-budget dreck this summer, I definitely recommend this along with Takashi Miike's Audition. "},{"Title":"The Real Blair Witch 2","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This wasn't a bad movie.  It wasn't the greatest.  It is reality scary like Silence of the Lambs or Seven.  This should have been Blair Witch 2.  Not as a plot contiues sequel, but as a mood sequel.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"A strong and impressive psychological horror creepfest","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Five men who work for an asbestos abatement team get a job cleaning up the long dormant, abandoned, and deteriorating institution The Danvers State Mental Hospital, which turns out to be harboring several dark and dangerous secrets. Director Brad Anderson, who also co-wrote the compact and intelligent script with Stephen Gevedon, relates the absorbing story at a slow stately pace, takes time to develop the well drawn and distinctive main characters, makes deft use of the splendidly eerie and desolate asylum location, ably creates and maintains a potently spooky atmosphere, astutely nails the tremendous pressure of the waste disposal business, and does a spot-on job of crafting a strong feeling of pervasive and overwhelming dread. Moreover, Anderson warrants further praise for putting a welcome and refreshing emphasis on mood and tension over cheap scares and excessive gore. The excellent acting by the tip-top cast keeps the picture buzzing David Caruso as the pragmatic, no-nonsense Phil, Peter Mullan as the weary, desperate, stressed-out Gordon, Brendan Sexton III as eager young turk Jeff, Gevedon as the studious Mike, and Josh Lucas as smartaleck troublemaker Hank. The climax is genuinely terrifying. Uta Briesewitz's sharp widescreen cinematography gives the picture a nice handsome look. The spare chilling score by the Climax Golden Twins does the spine-tingling trick. A fine and unnerving shocker. "},{"Title":"Expect The Unexpected!","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Taking place in an abandoned early 1900's mental hospital, Session 9 is not your average horror movie. As the characters venture inside, you feel you are among them. The abandoned hospital alone is creepy and it's past horrifying- At one time being the home of many tortured souls. It is a fact that many of the actors had reported hearing and seeing things in the making of the movie. You must expect the unexpected. Session 9 is as unpredictable as it is frightening; a movie that will surely mess with your mind. Just when you think you've got everything figured out, there's a twist that will make your jaw drop. So grab a bowl of popcorn. Turn off the lights. You are in for a long night!! "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" the movie is pretty amazing and has you on the edge of your seat just waiting to see what happens next. Yes, it is a slow movie to get into at first, but then it gets intense. This film is all put together not only as a scary ghost tale, but also set on Gordon's insanity. Gordon & the others are men that dispose of asbestos, and end up having their next job a a scary looking mental hospital. For a low budget film, I would have to say it's one of the best films i have seen. The film set was at a real mental hospital, so what you see throughout most of the film is real. Maybe a few things were added, but yeah most of it is REAL! The movie ends in a twist because you what you might have suspected isn't what really happens. It's just one of those movies that you have to watch, rather than just read a review about it. If you watch it ALONE in the DARK, you actually feel like you're really there. I wouldn't recommend doing that, but if you really wanna feel the chills & a get frightened, be my guest. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming even in the dark by yourself.","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is something missing in this film and it really is hard to pinpoint it. I want to say there is a general lack of tension. Some may completely disagree with this, as I have seen many who felt there was plenty of tension and suspense but I wasn't getting it. I sat through the film feeling like I was watching reality TV, not in a good way though. Common people doing in a realistic way a common thing (as far as their job is concerned). Problem for me was that they were so ordinary they were boring as well as falling into two-dimensional. The acting was by no means an issue here though, I'll admit that. I just didn't feel anything for them as characters. See, this is the problem I ran into. The tension wasn't high enough to keep me on the edge of my seat and so that leads me to pay attention to the characters, but the characters aren't interesting enough to care about which leads me to not caring what happens to them. So when the tension actually does rise I'm meh about it. There is one part in the film that uses a great use of camera work with lighting to create a creepy and back chilling affect. Problem is, this is the only time and it happens middle of the movie. Build up, peak, then plummet into meh. In the end the movie (which I watched alone and in the dark) did not make me even feel a little bit uncomfortable (aside from one event in the middle) and left me underwhelmed. I didn't have trouble dismissing it. It could have used a clue from, can't believe I'm saying this, Paranormal Activity, in how to capitalize on camera angles. Long hallways with corners and lighting or lack of that barely touched the potential to make you freak without a sudden scare tactic. I kept waiting for that shadow or subtle outline, something to make me feel like there was someone, or something there with them.I can't justify more than 5/10 because I walked away feeling like I had found out my friend bought a chocolate bar with almonds when he wanted crunch. "},{"Title":"I'm torn","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading reviews on this being a great psychological thriller, I was excited to give it a shot. I'm not a fan of gore so I thought this would be right up my alley. However, I'm torn as to how I feel about the movie. I found it to be a bit too slow and not really that scary/interesting for over an hour so I was disappointed, but as things are revealed in the last twenty minutes it was honestly pretty effective and I'm creeped out. So all in all if you can't find anything else to watch this isn't a terrible choice, it just isn't scary for most of the movie. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable but nothing outstanding.","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I would first like to quickly say, I'm reviewing this film after recently renting it from the film store and just finished watching it. While it was realised many years from this review, I think this still may help some who are looking to watch old 'classic' films.Not that I find this worthy of the 'classic' title. Session 9 is a atmospheric psychological horror (though I use the term loosely) that takes place in a old Asylum that was abandoned in the 1980s. A group of Haz-Mat (the people who remove toxins from an old building) have taken up the task of clearing the building up in a record 1 week in order to collect a handsome $10,000 bonus at the end of it. However as the story goes on, tensions rise and secrets unfold...I will not spoil the rest of the film but I will however give the rest of my thoughts on it. I would first like to say that I'm no stranger to 'psychological' thrillers and I do understand the story completely (in fact I saw the ending miles away), but I found that with this film, the all important 'twist' was rather mellow and not especially shocking - in fact it was rather predictable. The plot itself has very little substance, other than two mildly interesting back stories (mainly Caruso and Mullan's characters) and the brief main plot, the story had very little going for it. While the whole 'sessions' aspect of the film, which documents the memory resurface of a former patient at the asylum, could of been interesting, it felt rather irrelevant to the plot until the end. The acting itself was not bad with Mullan and Caruso holding up most of the cast to be honest, though Guilfoyle was interesting initially, it was short-lived (literally). All in all, I couldn't say that the acting was bad, if fact it was above par and I did really see the mental torment of some of the characters. However where the film really fails itself is the scare factor. Now, I do not see myself as a 'jump' scare type of watcher, I like atmosphere, I like the entire of something being there but not quite knowing whether it is. But I find, a balance of both works best, not a complete gore feast or 'cheap' scare film but not a film that solely relies on atmosphere. Because (in the case of this film) with the latter, you find a build up at the beginning that you (the viewer) begins to realise doesn't really go anywhere. Many reviewers talk about amazing atmosphere but I honestly didn't feel it, other than the odd scene (the lights one comes to mind) most of the film was shot in daylight and lacked any fear or adrenalin.While I didn't despise the film at the end, I didn't find it astonishing either. A good film if you're not sure what to watch. But if you're looking for more psychological, I would say Shutter Island and if you want more scare then go for a more 'jumpy' esque film. I felt this film didn't find the right balance to make it truly amazing. "},{"Title":"Frustratingly flawed","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film has a ton of stuff going for it. The location is pretty incredible, the only film I can think of that comes close is R-Point in terms of just how much dread a location alone can create, and the photography and direction brings out its full potential, especially given the mostly great music and sound and the films numerous creeping and sudden scares. The acting was great and the characters definitely felt like real people, with no stupid distractions or horribly forced love interests to crap things up. The plot was decent too, if a bit confused at times, and while the ending was a bit anti-climactic in many ways, it *totally* succeeded in leaving me feeling a bit creeped out for the next few days.What's frustrating are the things that really let the film down. The biggest problem for me was 'Simon'; a brilliantly nasty character, but I found his script way too clichéd to take seriously (does he really need to sarcastically say 'doc' all the time? he sounds like a kid's cartoon villain) and the voice they used sounded pretty stupid. I think Simon talking about his terrible deeds in a normal voice would have been a hundred times more creepy.Overall I think it's a brilliant film, but it's definitely not for everyone, and you need to 'want' the film to scare you for it to be effective. "},{"Title":"Unlike anything else really and that makes it good.","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie so easily could had turned into an average and very typical thriller with horror tendencies, set in an abandoned insane asylum. The movie however takes an original and not so typical approach with its premise and story. Not that the movie works out very surprising but it yet manages to work refreshing.Guess you could say that Brad Anderson is a very underrated director, were it not for the fact that he has also done some really bad stuff in his career. He also raised his own bar high with the 2004 movie The Machinist, so every other movie directed by him feels like a sort of a disappointment when it just isn't as good and original as The Machinist. It of course doesn't mean that his other movies are truly that bad. Just take this movie for instance. Even though it got made 3 years prior to The Machinist it definitely shares some similarities with it, in its style and themes. No, it isn't as good and not half as surprising but within its genre this movie still really remains a truly good one, that still feels far more original and creative than the average genre attempt.It's a movie that gets slowly build up. A bit too slow you could say, since there isn't really an awful lot good, tense or freaky happening in its first hour or so, when you really start analyzing it. But a slow buildup isn't always necessarily a bad thing, as long as it has a good payoff. A reason why you remain on your seat and something that keep your eyes glued to the screen. This movie does this all half successfully. On the one hand it does a great job at keeping you interested at all time but on the other the movie still feels like its being filled with missed opportunities and the 'twists' could had all been a bit more surprising and effective.There is no doubt about it that this is a real well directed movie, that however deserved a bit of a better script to work with. It of course remains a mystery why David Caruso got ever cast as the main lead in this but luckily its a sort of movie that also spends lots of time with its other characters and their 'stories'. Peter Mullan especially does a great job with his character and also perhaps is the true main character of the movie.A movie that feels fresh and original within its genre due to its approach, without ever becoming really original or surprising with its story itself.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Has its flaws but succeeds in being very creepy","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A good idea can go far if executed right. Session 9 is a film with a good idea and a good execution that has a few flaws along the way. It's about an asbestos cleaning crew who are working in an abandoned mental hospital. Tension amongst the group rises as it begins to look like the the hospital's disturbing past is coming back to haunt them, driving the group's boss to the brink of insanity. This is a surprisingly smart film for what it's worth and the horror aspect of it is actually pretty chilling. It isn't terrifying but it also is nothing to scoff at because it will easily creep you out.Where this film really succeeds is in its execution of the horror and chills which it possesses. The film isn't particularly scary, but it is undeniably spine tingling. A lot of the chills in this movie are brought about by audio. Disturbing sounds and horrific descriptions of terrible events are what fuel the horror this film brings about. This leaves a lot of the visual aspects to the viewer's imagination and, as is the case most often, what we can muster up in our own minds is much scarier than what the film can accomplish. We aren't allowed the luxury of being able to put a face or an image to the evil of this film, making it a lot creepier and much more unsettling. Not enough films comprehend this method of instilling fear, so I have to give Session 9 for getting it right.Where this film falters is... everywhere else. That was mean. The film has a good story that, when it finally picks up, is quite clever and is of a higher quality than the average horror film. But the film suffers from a weak script, disjointed pacing, and a sub-par cast. I personally see David Caruso as one running joke due to his plethora of awful one liners in CSI, but even in a completely different atmosphere I still didn't care for him all too much. Plus it doesn't help that I felt no compassion or care for the characters. They were all unlikeable and I didn't care much about what happened to them, I only hoped it would be chilling and smart. And it was that, so I guess the film succeeded in a way. Also, something just seemed very off about the pacing and progression of the story. Perhaps it was because the story gets fairly convoluted and is at times difficult to follow because of time jumps, or maybe it was simply a rocky story structure. Either way, the film is far from perfect.Despite these things, it would be unfair for me to knock this film based on the things that don't matter as much. This is a horror film, not a complex character story that demands high quality performances. Session 9 greatly succeeds where it matters. It is chilling and disturbing and it pulls these things off with intelligent integrity that can't go unnoticed. It is far from perfect, but also far from terrible. It is definitely a good watch if you are looking to be creeped out and aren't looking for a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Did you put this movie down?....because it means you are too lazy to think for yourself and you let the movies do it for you!!","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Did you put this movie down?....it means you are too lazy to think for yourself and you are looking for the typical American movie-goer hand me plot, special effects, with up to date music soundtrack....sorry this one isn't for you my friend. I just don't know why people put this movie down...its a pure shame. The only answer i have to give you is that Americans are fed this simplistic crap washed with special effects and every plot and scene is pasted together perfectly to create little or no thought from the viewer at all. Just pure laziness! The movie Session 9 is more of a exciting thriller rather than horror, so let get that out first. Secondly this film has me watching it more than once. There are so many paths and possibilities hidden within this film, that it allows the viewer to create his own thought and opinion of whats happening in the film. Is he crazy? Is he sane and the others are crazy? Or is he possessed? Thats for YOU to decide. I have my own belief on the film, but Im not going to say anything further about my opinion. What I can say is that it was filmed at an abandoned mental institution in Danvers, MA. which is actually where it takes place in the film as well. This place is known about in the paranormal community as a great haunted location, and have actually have heard EVP (Electronic voice Phenomenon or disembodied voices)from this great building which is now being torn down. This to me makes this film even more unique in the sense that they picked a location and story at such a random place as Danvers State. The film is also enhanced and graced with a great and eerie soundtrack with work from Climax Golden Twins and composed and arranged by such movie music legends as Bill Laswell and Philip Glass. I recommend this film to anyone who appreciates a great movie with thought involved, subtle spookiness, and twists and turns. I also recommend you read Mflana 1s comment...This author took the words right from my mouth. "},{"Title":"A Creepy Working-Guys Hitchcock thriller","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I pulled this one out because it had been tagged as a supernatural Thriller in the Netflix listing. That, plus the difference in the character set.First-- as to whether it's supernatural or not is debatable. If you watch this thinking your going to see the normally produced horror shenanigans commonly placed in abandoned mental hospitals-- think again. This movie Won't go down that road. . .instead it inches down a side trail of 'Creepy' And it's groping down that trail at a slower pace than the word 'Thriller' normally implies-- but think about it this way You don't RUN down a forest trail because that's the quickest way to break your ankle. But if it's getting dark, you can't help but look over your shoulder. . .even though you KNOW there's NOTHING there. So you try to HURRY up a little-- except you STILL Can't Run because it's darker now. That's what this movie is like.Second-- I like the notion of a crew of asbestos cleaners Normal Working Guyz. No Ad Execs. No Lawyers. No Top FBI agents. No Scientists. No Military SWAT teams.Normally, horror movies like to tell stories revolving around perfect suburban families moving into the Perfect country Farm House only to find that it's haunted. Or it's a top academic team of scientists investigating reports of supernatural goings-on in aforesaid abandoned hospital. Or replace the academic team with a crack Detective team chasing a madman who just murdered the Senator's Wife or something.Normally, Hollywood insists that one of the lead actors MUST be a Beautiful, Intelligent woman.Normally, Someone. At LEAST ONE person MUST have a Gun.Normally, there's a Cute Kid that must be saved.No-- this is just an asbestos cleaning crew that is just there for a job. And each Guy is a regular guy with regular desires, regular worries and not so dark, but regular secrets. . .except for maybe one.And the Horror here is the pure literary kind Horror is when something you had no reason to expect descends on your back and starts tearing into you. Horror is when you did not expect it and when it happens you have no time to shout warning.The Creepy is the way it builds up from very ordinary things. . .little facts, little observations, a phrase or a statement here or there. Something is wrong and you don't know where it's coming from. And the movie does this in DAYLIGHT.Rent this one and Give it a Watching on a Friday Night. Then go to work and see who's standing off to the side with a worried distracted look. . .and ask yourself Should I watch my Back? "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film burns slowly and frays the nerves, tremendous acting and cinematography. It is claustrophobic and the tension relentless. Caruso is superb as Gordon.An asbestos abatement crew wins the bid for an abandoned insane asylum. What should be a straightforward, if rather rushed, job, is complicated by the personal histories of the crew. In particular, Hank is dating Phil's old girlfriend, and Gordon's new baby seems to be unnerving him more than should be expected. Things get more complicated as would-be lawyer Mike plays the tapes from a former patient with multiple personalities, including the mysterious Simon who does not appear until Session 9, and as Hank disappears after finding some old coins.I was so impressed my band recorded e a song called Session 11 . Check it out. The Ministry Of Misinformation on Myspace "},{"Title":"Mental illness defined","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am of two minds about this low-budget horror film, shot at an abandoned psychiatric hospital in Danvers, Massachusetts. One is that the director was a little too enamored of the old structure, and after watching several scenes shot in poorly;y-lit hallways and tunnels, I've had enough while he clearly hasn't. He's like a teenager who's found his way into an abandoned building and never wants to leave. On the other hand, the building makes for a properly creepy background for what is a study of a person declining into madness. An asbestos remediation crew, run by an old Scot whose business is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy, takes on an old hospital building that is to be be converted into municipal offices. The crew members, including stone-faced David Caruso and bearded troublemaker Josh Lucas, don't get along particularly well, and the aging boss is under a lot of pressure to secure and complete this job within a week. Things start to go awry pretty quickly A crew member (Lucas) abruptly disappears while another crew member discovers old tapes of patient therapy sessions and begins playing them. To say more would ruin the plot, such that it is. Supernatural elements may be at at work, which the director apparently has confirmed. The film is occasionally scary, and one may be tempted to believe spirits or demons are at work, but I firmly believe the movie is really about one individual's mental disintegration. And we know which individual it is early on. It is not mean to be a secret. To view SESSION 9 as a ghost movie may be a stretch and could prove disappointing for those expecting such. "},{"Title":"A Danvers State of Mind","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's a new baby at home for asbestos removal boss Gordon, and he's desperate for a big job. Lucky for him the run-down Danvers State Mental Hospital down the street needs a clean out, and his crew is eventually hired.Once the sleep-deprived Gordon and his foul mouthed crew (including a hammy David Caruso) enter the vast premises, it's quite clear that the hospital has a pretty lousy history.A history that doesn't want to leave. (lightning crashes) A pretty unnerving psychological thriller, Session 9 is carried by the occasional cheese of Caruso and Peter Mullan (nice overacting) and the claustrophobic settings.The film doesn't rely on jump scenes &#150; which is a good thing &#150; but instead through a building tension of long eerie shots, darkness, mind tricks, and a series of old recordings.Above average, but not great.Note I'm pretty familiar with the Danvers State Mental Hospital in Danvers, MA. My friends and I roamed those hallways and tunnels well before Brad Anderson (who did make nice use of the surroundings) came along. It was fun seeing the different rooms, graffiti, and buildings again.The hospital is now a huge apartment complex. Only the center building remains. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films of 2000's and the scariest horror movie ever!","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An asbestos removal team wins the bid to clean an abandoned institute for the mentally insane. The crew chief Gordon is experiencing problems of his own - stressed out because of his newborn daughter and the daily struggles of his tough job - and so does the rest of his colleagues. Through the course of one ill-fated week, awful things dawn on each one of the crew men, at the same time evidences on tape of a girl committed decades ago in the institute, due to the brutal, unexplained murder of her entire family, are found and then listened by one of the members of the team. Director Brad Anderson's masterpiece of psychological horror is one of the finest films ever made. It was criminally underestimated by the time of its release, back in 2001, when it clearly deserved a better fate and a wider recognition. Every detail of Session 9 gets a true ten. Session 9 is skillfully made, with director Brad Anderson paying classy homage to Stanley Kubrick with his interesting, old fashioned camera movements,terrific performances all around, and a tight, human story that avoids the typical clichéd-ridden script,exploring the depth of human mind and the horror that lies in the every day life.It gives so much gravitas to the picture that Session 9 was shot inside Danves Institute, a real, castle-like place that, for decades, represented the snake pit for mentally-disturbed people who suffered a great deal of inhumanity and humiliation and died there,their remains forgotten into anonymous tombs, sprayed over a thousand of graves marked by cold, indifferent numbers. It feels like the real tragedy that took place inside Danvers for years now looms in the dark, bringing a creepy atmosphere and a sense of dread that accompanies the picture from the get go. It's a complete mystery for me how Peter Mullan, giving the film's outstanding performance as the tormented,mentally-weaken Gordon, din't get an acting recognition for his work,when it's crystal clear for me that he deserved an Academy Award for Best Actor. Forget Denzel Washington and his Oscar for Training Day,back in 2001 if the world was a fair place and good things happened to good films, Peter would've got that statue. Nobody can touch his performance. He left me stunned, his scenes carried a present sense of urgency and tragedy that truly made me feel sorry for him. Kudos to Brad Anderson for his approach of the material, he has such class and a taste for elegant settings and camera movements that Session 9 becomes an auteur picture,and not only one hell of a terrific horror movie. Also, the importance he gives to the sound effects, thought the mysterious sessions with May Hobbes and her doctor, is the highlight of Session 9 and also the creepiest part of this masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Now this, is how you do horror.","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is just incredible. And let me just say right off the bat, that Brad Anderson is a genius. Horror movies nowadays suck to the Nth degree, they are not scary to begin with. Also, horror films nowadays are filled with lazy scripts that consist of tired remakes and ripoff's of better movies. I applaud filmmakers like Brad who decide to do something new, creative and beautiful at the same time and don't just solely reside on copying other people's films just to get a few bucks. After seeing Brad Anderson's superb The Machinist, I didn't knew he had made another horror/thriller film beforehand. Much to my surprise, they had a previewed copy in Blockbuster, and I bought it without thinking it twice. You see, there are different types of Horror. There's the supernatural horror, with howling spirits, Satan and his cronies and men under white sheets. The monster Horror movie which basically consists of, well, you guessed it Monsters! And then there's my favorite The Psychological Horror. This is my favorite simply because it is the more effective. Entering the mind of a sadistic serial killer is more eerie and creepy than any movie with vampires or ghouls and goblins. Yes, sometimes you can combine them producing great results (Exorcist, Changeling, Herzog's Nosferatu among others), but they don't always prove a success.Session 9 is basically a whodunit, but done much more interestingly and creepy. An asbestos crew is hired to do a clean up in an old, dusty and exhaustively big abandoned insane asylum. They have about a week to tidy the place up so they can get a 10,000 dollar bonus. What happens between those days, is truly the stuff nightmares are made of. A decent cast is summoned here. David Caruso serves us a good performance and his now infamous line F*ck youuu really cracked me up, but apart from that, he was good. The fantastic Peter Mullen has obviously the best performance, a really great characterization of a calm, lonely and ultimately ____ man. Josh Lucas did a surprise performance, and Stephen Gevedon was also very effective. However, I found Brendan Sexton's acting truly atrocious. Even though the character he portrays is basically a dumbass, he just didn't render him good enough and he delivered his lines like an unexperienced child-actor would; he was really one of the things that I hated about this movie. The sound effects in this one are very good; they constantly reminded of a video game called Silent Hill, especially it's sequel, Silent Hill 2; truly marvelous games that were destroyed by a pisspoor movie adaption. And the wheelchair scene in this film and also on The Changeling, which I guess was this film's inspiration, actually makes an appearance in Silent Hill 3, just to show that the Japanese sometimes gets their ideas from Americans. Some things bothered me in this one, like a certain scene with a naked somebody or some poor camera work, and Sexton, goddamn him.The Bottom Line A truly smart horror film, with a superb script, acting (except Sexton of course), music, ambiance, mostly everything really. Brandon definitely perfected his craft with The Machinist, but this movie could've been something more if it had more refining and more cash to work with. But what we get is something very original and great. An 8/10, one of the best horror movies of the 21 century. "},{"Title":"I fall into the good category","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Having had the benefit of skimming through 5 years of comments and read the vast differences of opinion on the movie, I have to say that I thought it was quite good with some flaws. I'm not a movie critic like some of the folks here think they are, but I react from the gut, and this movie hit me there most of the time. To me, it was very disturbing and creepy, and generally that makes for a good horror film in my book.Yes, there are holes in the plot and red herrings, but David Lynch uses those as well, and they don't bother me. Not everything has to be resolved and tied up for a movie to be worthwhile. I would have liked to see a better tie between the stories of Mary/Simon and Gordon (if there even should be one), as well as why the wannabe lawyer character has such a fascination with the tapes. And, yeah, that JIF jar seemed a little out of place, and it does seem to meander a bit. Perhaps another viewing would tie some of the loose ends together. I would agree that the mental hospital shoot location is the great subtle character of the film and enhances it. It's dirty, ugly and ominous...like the film.I have seen a zillion horror movies in my lifetime, and most suck, particularly the newer ones that rely on CGI to blast the viewer. I'm a fan of the older stuff like The Haunting that rely on acting and atmosphere to create the sense of dread and horror. This one is more old school and appeals to me in that way. It's not the best of the genre, but it's much more towards the top than the bottom.For the horror movie buff, do watch this one. It will get your attention, make you uncomfortable, and force you to figure things out yourself. "},{"Title":"Brilliant piece of work.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm partial to any movie, game, or book that involves an insane asylum (best example 'Sanitarium' by ASC Games/DreamForge), so when I saw the description of this film on my cable movie channel, I immediately switched it on - and now I'm on my way out the door to go buy it.What I loved was the atmosphere, the sky shots of the asylum (reminded me of some of the awesome, creepy above shots of the mansion in Stephen King's 'Rose Red'), and the slowly unraveling story of Mary, Billy, and of course the ominous Simon.I have to admit I was about ten times more interested in Mary's dark past than in Gordon's dark present. I would have loved seeing more development in this area of the plot. However, I think this movie is brilliant because of the subtle terror, and because Simon can really be interpreted several ways perhaps he really was a dark spirit or ghost that can inhabit certain people; or maybe he was just the dark side of all of us. Maybe we all have a Simon lurking deep in our minds... it's just the releasing of him that causes insanity. "},{"Title":"Pure Psych","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie scared the life out of me. I have seen it so many times I can almost quote it line for line. The movie is brilliant, incredibly well written, and creepy. If you're going to get a good thriller movie for a cold, dark night, this would be perfect. The audio is off-putting to a point where you won't be able to get it out of your head. Make no mistake, It will haunt you. You'll never see a more creepy place than Danvers. It DID exist as a mental hospital, and they did use the real location for shooting the film. Peter Gordan Mullan is an amazing actor who not only commits to the part, he is the movie. The casting was perfect, and I would change NOTHING. An absolute must own movie. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard to be different","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film had all the ingredients of a classic, but fell woefully short of the mark in the end.Here we have a bunch of workmen going to work in a disused mental hospital who slowly start to get overcome by bizarre goings on. With a good musical score and a seemingly chilling location the stage was set for a would be classic, but ended up a bit of a damp squib! It tried too hard to go for the psychological edge, when in truth it didn't need to, plus the actors did not have enough clout to pull it off or make the tension believable...The acting is extremely poor, especially the Scottish guy, and I failed to feel any empathy for any one of them. It really needed just ONE A list celeb to lift the overall feel of the film and keep the viewer entertained. The actors failed to make you believe that what was happening was true and at times their conversations were dreadfully boring and didn't make sense.Session 9 does just enough to keep you watching...it has some extremely boring parts, which you struggle to understand, but then switches to a semi decent scene in which you find yourself sucked in, however this is by no means a classic and you wouldn't watch it again.The ending..? Hmm, I wont spoil it for anyone, but its not much to write home about, sort of sums it up really.If you're looking for a DVD to pass away a boring evening, then put Session 9 in the player, but don't be surprised if you, or whoevers with you, loses interest halfway through....! Quite good in parts but on the whole a bit of a turkey.Easily forgettable. "},{"Title":"Tension rising up....","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's a true obsession in modern horror cinema with the Psychiatric Hospitals. I'm not naming names, but I'm sure you all have seen movies set in those kind of places recently. The first Brad Anderson's movie with a proper distribution is about an derelict and a gang of workmen that are there to restore the place. And even though the heart of the matter (of what's going on there) comes out in the last 10 minutes of the movie, Session 9 has attractions enough to keep you engrossed in the screen. The tension rises up at every turn...It isn't very original, and it isn't very terrifying either, but it's quite entertaining, the actors are just OK and it's been elegantly filmed.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Session 9 is in the mold of The Shining","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is one of the most intense psychological and horrific movies since Stanley Kubricks, The Shining. Session 9 is a movie that will (and in any intelligent movie goers mind), has established Brad Anderson as an elite director (see The Machinist). Anderson is clearly influenced by Brian DePalma and makes great use of DePalmas style (more so in, The Machinist, than in Session 9). Session 9 never lets you know exactly what is real or imagined. This adds to the tension and deepens the feeling of twisted reality. Anderson succeeds in transforming the atmosphere of Danvers State Hospital, into a living evil entity. Much as Kubrick did with the Overlook Hotel in, The Shining. The mood, atmosphere and story are far superior to just about any other horror movie in recent memory (and I've seen quite a few of them). Just a great movie. "},{"Title":"a cross between the shining and burnt offerings with a little blair witch thrown in","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Director Brad Anderson, Script Anderson, Stephen Gevedon, Cast David Caruso, Peter Mullan, Stephen Gevedon, Brendon Sexton, Paul Guilfoyle A group of maintenance workers specializing in the removal of asbestos from old buildings is contracted to remove the asbestos from the old Danvers mental institution which closed its doors 20 years ago. They agree to have the building cleaned in one week. As can be expected, this building housed some pretty whacked out individuals. Mike (Stephen Gevedon),one of the employees, comes across a box full of old reel to reel tapes which contain a series of therapy sessions with a patient suffering from some sort of multiple personalty disorder. Thus the title 'Session 9. This movie shows what happens to these men over the course of the week. Is this place haunted? is their someone or something lurking about in the dark corridors? or is it neither. You will know by the end.This is a film the has received a lot of praise by many fans of the genre. No doubt, I got excited when I came across it at our video store. It is unlike most horror movies made today. This is definitely not a teeny bob horror. The cast is an all male bunch reminiscent of Carpenter's The Thing. The cinematography work by Uta Briesewitz is exceptional. Him and director Anderson do a great job of creating an eerie atmosphere. This film has no fancy jump shots or special effects. It is also filmed in a real abandoned institution. The feeling of suspense hits you through the whole movie. However, in spit of all of this, the film was only o.k. to me. Good but not great. I know I am going against a lot of people saying this. The problem for me was the plot and storyline was not as good as the atmosphere against which it was set (if that makes sense!). I guess I will not tell the ending but I thought it to be a disappointment. The film's atmosphere is such that I was given the impression that their was something supernatural about this place, that it was haunted or at least their was some unknown maniac lurking about or something. The way the film ends downplays all this.I guess I have a difficult time seeing the connection between the given clues , the atmosphere, the therapy sessions with Mary and the ending. Many people will disagree with my opinion about the end. If you have not seen this film, watch it and see what you think. You will either like the ending or you wont. A great film otherwise. This film should probably be viewed more than once to pick up the clues that they offer during the coarse of the film. "},{"Title":"Thought it was....","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" too much...they tried to cram too much crap into down our throats.. a lot of it didn't make sense, and what did was hardly worth the thought process...I gave it a 4/10 only because I'm nice I do wish I had liked it, tho.. if the scenes had been a lot more clearly written, it would have been a good movie. I guess we are required for ten lines but I really don't have ten lines to say about this movie... I liked Identity with John Cusack! that one scored 8/10.. only because it was a little slow at times.. does anyone have advice how I can get around this ten line rule? HAHA oh for crying out loud I'm tired of being told I don't have enough lines.. i didn't like Session 9 that's all I wanted to sayyyyyyy!!! "},{"Title":"An excellent movie getting better every time you see it","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first time I saw Session 9 I was left to wonder what happened in the end - did Phil kill Hank and Gordon whacked out the rest of the crew members? Because why would Phil be so outraged that that punk (Gordons nephew) claimed to have seen Hank ? Because he knew that Hank was not alive anymore? And WHY was Phil holding this carpet knife in his hands if he was not going to murder someone? On the other hand - it is very entertaining to see how Phil was talking about Gordon behind Gordon's back (sort of mobbing him)... After I watched the movie for 6 times I began to see trough the story and I have to admit it is one of the best movies I have seen in years. It was good to see David Caruso - not in his role of the ever-avenging brooding cop (H. Caine) - but as a constantly swearing guy from next door with a wounded ego as big as the place around him ... great performance David! "}{"Title":"Haunting doesn't describe it enough.....","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I checked out this film when all the other films I wanted to see were unavailable. Boy am I glad this happened!! Wonderful, brilliant cast Caruso and Lucas are my personal favorites, Peter Mullan and Steve Gevedon are top notch (as for Brandon Sexton - he annoys me) but other than one person this film is spot on in every way, shape and form a thriller should be.Gordon (Peter Mullan) wins the bid for an asbestos removal contract at an old, closed down asylum. He and his crew have only a few days to complete their work so the stakes, and the pressures, are high. With crews' paths crossing too close for comfort both professionally and personally, is it just stress -- or is something at the old Danvers Asylum preying on the already strained minds and hearts of the men? And if so, who or what is it? The setting is disturbing, the performances haunting, the tension is built perfectly. Even if you don't like this film, it will stay with you and haunt you. When the only thing out there are kids films, and boob flicks this is finally a film for mature, intelligent adult tastes (and for some of the very precocious young adults as well). 10 out 10. "},{"Title":"What horror cinema is all about","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie definitively need more exposure than it had. Great great flick. Brad Anderson scores a hit with a very very low budget horror movie. With a creepy building, some intelligent lighting, sound and with some twisted ideas, that guy got me more scared than I've ever been in years.I don't know what Brad Anderson did before and after Session No.9 but I thank him for this powerful horror movie. Everything is about the place. Slowly the characters are discovering the grim history of this place, are trying to cope with it, but they can't something inside this place is just wrong. With white and brown spots, Brad Anderson is recreating a haunting place where tortured souls were ending their days in torment. So what's the deal? What is scary? Then find out, rent it. I'm not giving away spoilers. Just be ready for horror as you never seen it.A true genuine horror flick. "},{"Title":"What horror cinema is all about","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie definitively need more exposure than it had. Great great flick. Brad Anderson scores a hit with a very very low budget horror movie. With a creepy building, some intelligent lighting, sound and with some twisted ideas, that guy got me more scared than I've ever been in years.I don't know what Brad Anderson did before and after Session No.9 but I thank him for this powerful horror movie. Everything is about the place. Slowly the characters are discovering the grim history of this place, are trying to cope with it, but they can't something inside this place is just wrong. With white and brown spots, Brad Anderson is recreating a haunting place where tortured souls were ending their days in torment. So what's the deal? What is scary? Then find out, rent it. I'm not giving away spoilers. Just be ready for horror as you never seen it.A true genuine horror flick. "},{"Title":"A really good attempt at a psycho horror","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I hate the usual teen slasher movies (yawn, another mutilated body) so I was impressed with this movie as the horror is around you and not just on the screen.Though numbers of scenes from the shining appear here, you can forgive the possible theft due to the quality of the film. Though if you were to steal a few scenes and ideas you could do a lot worse than Kubrick and The Shining.There is a 20 minute spell in this that to be honest, is as good as any horror movie. Tense and dark, the atmosphere draws you in to the film in a similar way to the ring.I found the rating a little low, possibly due to the lack of teenagers running around.If you want to be scared rather than see lots of mutilation watch this film. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you watch it to the end","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're into really bloody horror movies this is probably not your movie. But if you like a good thriller you should probably see this one and as a bonus it features David Caruso ;)It kind of looks like a B-Movie or Television series and can be a bit boring now and then if you prefer action over drama. But if you watch it to the end it grabs you by the throat and makes you wonder who was the good guy after all, in fact it makes you wonder what you've really been watching the past 90 minutes or so. Was it all for real or just a dream? That kind of movie. Further more apart from having a lot of drama it also gives you that creepy feeling a good thriller rather often. For exaple there is that scene were one of the characters runs to a tunnel that keeps getting darker because the lights go out, one after another. And a chair that mistyriously keeps moving. In short an excellent thriller and something I would advise to a friend. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie! Reading through the other comments I'm surprised at how many people watched the movie and saw a supernatural or pseudo-supernatural influence on the characters. I was fascinated by the movie because I saw it as a look into the psychology of murder. The sessions we listen to show a person who's had a major psychological break and Gordon's behavior through the entire movie mimics this. I should watch it again because I probably missed the supernatural implications. I had just finished reading a book on Behavioral Science prior to watching the movie and I saw much human desperation than crazy house influence on the characters. I liked the mood, the characters and the way it displays itself and then unfolds in a more chronological order. It gave me chills, not because of ghosties but because of what humans are capable of doing and how the human mind can be.  "},{"Title":"A Really Great Film...","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was at the local blockbuster one day looking for a good horror movie post-1990's. An almost impossible mission, but I was lucky enough to find session 9. The cover reminded me so much of the imagery from Silent Hill and I was hoping it would be as good as it looked and...it was. This movie is one of the best horror/psychological thrillers to be released in a long time. Although I wouldn't say that it is as good as Jacob's Ladder, I would definitely equate it to that film. There are SOME flaws, obviously, but I won't say what they are. Best if you discover this film for yourself. It is well worth discovering, flaws and all. 8/10 from The Outlaw Anger  "},{"Title":"Avoid!!!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wish I had more hands, because I'd give this film four thumbs down!!!I rented this movie a while ago at uni,from the recommendation of my housemate ( you know the type, likes listening to korn and has the buffy box sets) and just remember thinking no no no, all wrong. Its such a pointless film, the payoff at the end is boring and predictable, I don't know why it has such good IMDb reviews.The film is like someone has watched a marilyn manson or nine inch nails video and tried to stretch it out into a full length movie It looks cheap and nasty, and I can't be sure but I think it went straight to video. If you want a scare or just some degree of originality, rent a jap horror, RINGU, JU-ON, DARK WATER. Or if your after real psychological terror combined with stunning deep focus photography try the original HAUNTING. Apologies to all those out there that actually enjoyed this turkey.  "},{"Title":"Sufficiently Creepy","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie until I read an article about Brad Anderson's new movie The Machinist, and the premise of his new film looked interesting enough that I decided to check this out on IFC yesterday evening. I had no expectations going in, since I knew very little about it beforehand, but I was very impressed and very disturbed by this movie.The premise is fairly simple A cleaning crew gets a job at an abandoned mental institution, one of the workers finds tapes of sessions that doctors held with a woman named Mary Hobbes, and strange things start happening. I would explain further, but that would give the entire movie away, and the treat of this movie is figuring it out yourself. While you may know what is going on about halfway through, the way that Anderson lets the events play out keeps you engrossed until the very end, when everything is explained but the answers are decidedly unpretty. David Caruso, who I usually enjoy about as much as a hammer to the face, is very good in his role, as is Josh Lucas, who made this before he became a household name and made it very obvious that he had the makings of a movie star. I was unfamiliar with the other lead actors, but it was better for the movie, as they allow themselves to fit into an ensemble without drawing too much attention onto themselves or the others.Needless to say, I was left with a feeling of dread in my stomach and the promise of an uneasy night's sleep, but I couldn't have enjoyed the feeling more. I give this movie a solid 8 out of 10, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys getting creeped out.  "},{"Title":"one of the best.......","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  session 9 was one of the best and original horror movies i have seen in a long time. i just happened to buy it the other day at media play and i was not let down. mix the blair witch project with the creepiness of the exorcist along with mtv's old show 'fear' and you get session 9. the scene where hank is alone in the tunnels and he sees someone at the end of the tunnel is one of the scariest moments captured on film EVER. anyone that doesn't like this movie must be a fan of the same old teen horror slasher flick. this is definitely NOT that. i highly recommend this movie to anyone that likes a good character driven horror movie. and make sure to watch it alone, in the dark.  "}{"Title":"Creepy and scary","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Again I found myself sifting through movie titles and had looked at the Session 9 cover for weeks and weeks, always passing it by because I was tired of renting no name flicks which sucked. After taking a chance finally, I ended up renting it 2 more times. It was atmospherically creepy, most likely due to the location it was shot in - a closed down mental institution - which seemed to play a hand in character development. I was never really a David Caruso fan before, he bugged me on TV, but, after this, I thought he was perfect for the role he played, and that goes for the entire cast. I was surprised by the way things ended up - I didn't see it coming, which is why I had to see it again. As for the digital moviemaking, I didn't notice until the dark scenes and it convinced me digital video need not get in the way of telling a good, scary story. Perhaps more creepy than scary. I'm so glad the director deleted certain scenes (from the DVD features) as it may have been harder to follow and confusing any other way. Good horror movie. (4/5) "},{"Title":"This movie delivers!","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was flipping through the channels last night and came across this movie. It wasn't exactly an attention grabber, but I like horror movies, I like David Caruso and OK! I was bored.Session 9 is one of those movies that you just can't seem to turn off because you know something is coming, but you're not quite sure what. In most of the other horror movies I've watched, the what is usually predictable and dissappointing, but Session 9 delivers! I was actually scared and surprised, which is rare. So if you're tired and bored of the predictable...I highly recommend this one! "},{"Title":"a really great movie","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a movie that deserves all kinda of awards. I haven't seen anything like this in a long time. I am a big fan of horror movies and it really was an awesome movie. I saw it last night for the first time and I had to go out to the store to buy it today because it was so awesome. I would just like to say thank you for making this movie and please make others.  "},{"Title":"Just what the Doctor Ordered! Wouldn't you agree Simon?","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Forget any references to the Blair Witch Project as the back of the cover dares to suggest, Enjoy for yourself, and become immersed in the dark shadowy thrills and chills and Discover just what Session 9 is all about.Very few movies have the power to hook you right from the start, if however you've seen the likes of The Usual Suspects or even Frailty, you'll know what i mean. As with every movie, you have to have a narrative hook, in this case, Every Stretch of Action takes place within the haunted walls of the Danvers State Mental Hospital, Long since Abandoned, but still shrouded in scandal.With a good cast involved, a really dark and brooding script co-written by Stephen Gevedon, who also appears in the movie, he being the one who finds the Session Tapes. It's a rare treat, Especially more so as the story evolves, and parallels as we watch the characters and listen to Mary and her inner demons converse with her doctor.Just a little curio for you, if you remember the movie Wendigo the director of that Indie Sleeper also shows up towards the tail end of the movie as the character of McManus, i was never really a fan of that movie, but as ever it's always interesting to wear the proverbial Anorak and spot the who's who or play Six Degree's of Kevin Bacon when it comes to watching these genre specific movies.So if you feel like you haven't seen anything good, you find yourself driven to utter distraction by all the really bad movies out there, and yes there are many, just set those inner demons aside, put your feet up and enjoy.It Just what the doctor ordered, wouldn't you agree Simon! "},{"Title":"This is a TRUE horror film","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this DVD completely on a whim, thinking it might be interesting to watch since it was filmed at Danvers Mental Institution, which is not far from where i live.  Im also a horror movie fan, and I thought it might be a cool, hey we're stuck in a mental institution and were gonna die in crazy ways!!!Boy, was I in for a surprise.  This movie, from the opening scene, just had an eerie mood about, that never let up until the end.  It follows the story of asbestos workers, who are contracted to rid an abandoned Mental institute of the dangerous substance, so that it can be made into a town hall.  As the workers go about their business, strange things begin to happen, one man finds a cache of priceless coins, the boss seems to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown, and tensions between the men rise as one by one they dissapear.***SPOILERS***The comparisons to all other corny horror yarns stops there.  The films begins to pick up the pace, going from the taped sessions of a schizophenic patient, to those of the men, one by one getting taken down by the unknown killer.  Like the horror classics of old, you see neither the killer, nor the murders themselves.The director leads the audience in different directions, to make you think you know who the killer is.  Is it an patient, still holed up after all these years?  Is it the ghost of a patient???  But, the conclusion is astounding, and when you see who the killer has been, you will kick yourself for not seeing it before.  And the director lets you know this, via flashbacks a la the sixth sense.** END SPOILERS***This is a true horror film in the fact that it could actually happen.  And it has.  Great directing and editing, to cause some nail biting suspense. Great acting as well.  The movie is slow at times, but I believe that was needed, so that when it becomes frantic at the end, it makes a better impression.9/10 "},{"Title":"A creepy and smart film","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THere have been a lot of negative things said about this film. Screw them. IF you have to see heads exploding or little girls coming out of Tv's to be scared then skip this movie. THis movie builds all its horror on voices and surroundings. The acting is is way above your normal horror film and its much smarter. From what i know this movie was never out in THeaters which is a shame. IT's so good. THe movie gave me the creeps, It kept me guessing and in the end made it me care. I dont really think any movies are scary anymore but movies can creep me out and this movie did. SEE IT!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Tapes were cool","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is okay for horror.  I believe that they had the potential to make a much better film.  One problem was that it took forever before they tried to turn it into a horror film.  At first it was just a couple of guys talking and trying to clean a building.Maybe SPOILERS.The tapes that they listen to are kind of freaky though.  The voices on there changing to the kids and then to Simon were neat. All in all this movie was just alright but was watchable again. "},{"Title":"Gotta make some sense","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Suspension of disbelief is necessary for most films.  The issue is the degree.Too many problems in the script here.  Several other people have noted them1. Cleaning job size versus time constraint was ridiculous.  Laughed at all the breaks they took nonetheless.2. No compelling reason for the bozo listening to the tapes to be doing so at the expense of #1 above.3. Caruso screaming for lead character to quit and take time off made no sense again due to #1 and it wasn't his company anyway.4. What really was the connection between the 2 stories?  Wasn't supernatural so lead wasn't possessed.  Lead never heard tapes so he wasn't affected by the woman.5. The character of the lead may have snapped and killed his family.  That I could believe.  But the character they developed seemed unlikely to go on and slaughter all the others, especially via pick thru brain. "},{"Title":"long and creepy","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  the movie sort of dragged on for me.  I liked the atmosphere, and it gave me something to think about. It did not need to be as long as it was.  The movie would have been just as good if it were only an hour long. Labotomies are scary and so are multiple personalities. Perfect setting for a really scary thriller; just didn't meet the expectations.(5/10) "},{"Title":"Shot on video? Who cares?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what the fuss is, this is a horrible film. I disbelieved every single frame. Ok, first of all, why does one remove asbestos from an abandoned building? Secondly, they propose to remove all the asbestos from this complex, with HUNDREDS of rooms, in ONE WEEK. With a five person crew. And David Caruso wants to fire half of them.Ok, with one week to complete this overwhelming job, they a) appear to be working in the same room for the entire film. b) take leisurely lunches. c) don't think to hire anybody else to help them. d) when one person leaves the job, they don't think to hire anybody to replace him. e) one guy's in the basement the whole time listening to old tapes.The dialog is horrible. I wish I had taken notes so I could post them here and give someone a laugh without having to sit through the film. I do remember the word mealticket and the line something doesn't feel right were used.All the exposition is through dialog. Somebody stole somebody else's girlfriend ,somebody hit their wife, somebody went to Miami.There is all this drama about the asbestos removal business, some sort of garbage. David Caruso wants to fire everybody the whole film, thinks the other main character doesn't have what it takes to be in the asbestos removal business, etc.Shot on video? Who gives a damn?And the twist at the end? Big deal. It can't retroactively make the movie interesting when we find out that things aren't as they seemed.As a friend of mine used to say, Oh, burr.-B "}{"Title":"session 9 deserves much credit","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You cannot watch a movie like this without considering the possibilities of what it could have been like without competent film makers on board. Brad Anderson has created a world through a low budget and created from what he had to work with, a brilliant horror movie for these days at least. After the recent blows like Ghost Ship and Darkness Falls we see Session 9 which makes us think while wathcing a movie and its a good type of thinking. People are so foolish and arrogant to judge a movie by what they wanted it to be and not letting the movie be what the film makers wanted it to be. Session 9 is a horror movie about an abandoned sane asylum being haunted by its former patients including a dilusional Mary Forbes. This movie horrofies without flashy special effects but with creepy voices and letting the audience wonder about what things were like. It wasn't scary as much as it was brilliant and after watching Jason X, the world needs more brilliant horror movies. 3 1/2 out of 4  "},{"Title":"As interesting as you want to make it","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A lot of people have weighed in, I loved the movie, but it has many interpretations, and mine disagrees with many, but so be it.  See this movie and think about it, about what it says (not so much how it says it), it can be VERY disturbing if you do.SPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERJoy-Lyn, who said Gordon had MPD?  I didn't get that impression.  Instead, I thought the point was that many people (everybody?) has that killer personality inside of them, it's all in how it manifests itself. Remember, he was supposed to be the ROCK, but even someone who is outwardly strong can, because of circumstance, lose control to this being.  This movie actually validates your comments about MPD being a primarly female personification of a deep mental disorder.  Gordons (a males) personification was different, he DID NOT exhibit MPD, he was always Gordon, right up until the end. "},{"Title":"yawn/ignore any recommendations for this movie","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 was not scary, creepy, interesting or worth watching in my opinion. it is in the wrong category of horror/thriller. it should be in stupid comedy/ridiculous waste of time. good candidate for MST 3000. SPOILERthey only had one week? they sure took a lot of breaks and wasted time. what was the ending meant to mean? why were those pictures of his family in the room? why was his house dilapidated the last time he saw it? yes, i understand the parallel of the sessions patient and the irish man, but so what??? of couse i'm comparing this to movies that i thought were creepy (which there are very few of these days) examples reagan in the exorcist spidering down the stairs; the hand prints on the wall in blair witch project; the video and the ending of the ring; many others, though most of them were made years ago. there are very few creepy movies --- and gore and blood and guts are not creepy -- just gorey and bloody and gutty. "},{"Title":"Don't expect The Shining 2","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is about a bunch of guys who are employed to reclaim a derelict mental hospital, which, although it appears so, is far from empty.I was hoping for great things from this movie; after all, the premise couldn't provide a better foundation for a suspense-filled and creepy horror flick. Unfortunately, it just doesn't deliver.Obviously made on a shoe-string budget (read no special effects and a cast of 6), this film falls into the same trap as so many other movies all the action takes place in the closing stages of the story - the first hour or so is squandered on pointless dialogue and wasteful cut-scenes. Those hoping for a ghost story will also be sadly disappointed. The story would have been perfect for a supernatural shocker - perhaps a sinister amalgam of the Amityville horror and a nightmare on Elm Street, but what he have instead is a modern-day attempt at 'the shining' which, although ambitious, falls very much short of the mark.What little action there is in the final 30-minutes could have so easily been extended to fill a good hour of cat-and-mouse hide and seek and suspense-building. The story should have taken the viewer inside the mind of a man who is slowly going insane. Are those images and sounds of the tortured souls, trapped within the walls of the asylum, or are they a reflection of the delusional mind of a man losing his grip on reality?All in all, the story succeeds in so far as being quite disturbing and the premise is solid. However, it could have been made with considerably more flair to appeal to both audiences of the traditional shock/horror/slasher mould and the more thoughtful and psychoanalytical viewer alike.My rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"What if YOU had the keys to the asylum?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Your guts are held together with barbed wire and it hurts to even think of turning your face from the screen. It is not the gore nearing the final fade, but it is your brain in the wringer trying to not be afraid of what is right around the corner...the next corner and the next. An asbestos cleaning crew, and quite a motley bunch, win the bid to take out the asbestos of an old abandon hospital that was actually an asylum that practiced questionable therapy. Some of the crew fear their own wretched past and for the others...worry about the haunts revisiting the dank and creepy asylum. Notable cast members; David Caruso, Stephen Gevedon, Peter Mullan, Josh Lucas and the voices of Lonnie Farmer and Jurian Hughes. This is a thriller than begs to scare you. "},{"Title":"If you're really into horror, you're really wasting your time.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen several poor attempts at horror, and I must say that this is one of the worst.  The part that annoys me most is that most of these reviews hail this movie on par with the likes of The Exorcist and The Shining. Please.  My toaster could write a better movie.  From the hapless way the characters' associations were built, to the pointless sessions with Mary and the introductions to her many personalities, I felt this movie was an ATTEMPT at a psychological thriller that failed miserably.  The ending was thrown together so badly, we're left to assume that the budget ran out and all the actors really wanted to go home.  I'd suggest laundry over this movie. "},{"Title":"Nice buildup, but then...?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with many reviewers in that Session 9 is a really creepy movie most of the time. Probably one of the creepiest I've seen. It does a great job building up the tension, although it did feel kind of slow during the first half of it or so. The scenery is very beautiful, the asylum is a great location for a horror movie, the acting is not bad but still not something extra, well, the film does have a lot of good things going for it.But somehow they managed to get you excited and then just cut things short. When the end credits started rolling, I just sat there amazed at what an easy ending they chose. Sure, all things in a movie definitely doesn't need to be explained, but Session 9 just chose to explain nothing. In the last minutes the story changed in a way that you could never see coming, so why have all that buildup in the first place? Session 9 gets 5/10 from me. I guess maybe it will be better the second time I watch it since it really is a beautiful and creepy horror movie, but as a good story, I felt cheated. "},{"Title":"Movie has more style than substance; plot holes were disappointing","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a well-filmed pyschological horror flick that does a good job of creating suspense, but never really delivers on the goods.  Very average movie...worth renting for the creepy atmosphere, but could've been much better. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A cleaning crew removing asbestos from a run down, closed asylum fall prey to some kind of supernatural force. Spooky, creepy, and tense thriller with a good cast is ambitious and complex. It asks a lot of questions and surprisingly answers just about all of them in a neat ending that perfectly wraps up everything. It leaves you thinking afterwards and is very haunting & disturbing. One of the top three horror films of 2001.Rated R; Violence & Profanity. "},{"Title":"Watch the DVD","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!In my first viewing of this film, I was rather disappointed.  I agree with some of the reviews here that the writers didn't make the best use of the story and the location.  The location was pretty cool, especially when one realizes that it was a REAL asylum (sorry, institution) and that real horror did take place there for many decades.  The film has LOTS of red herrings that I won't go into, but it ultimately does keep one's interest and curiosity up.  That's in thanks mainly to Peter Mullan (MY NAME IS JOE, MISS JULIE, THE CLAIM).  He's is one of the best actors working today, and here he is perfectly cast as the bolt that keeps our interest in place.  After watching the film we can recall (or re-watch) the way his mind unraveled throughout the film, and relive a terror of the kind we're not used to seeing in horror films.  We can see first hand the weariness and pressure that sometimes leads up to crossing over into insanity, and the denial that often succeeds it.  In watching the deleted scenes on the DVD, one can really appreciate the film more fully because the elements that could have made the film truly creepy were originally there.  In the deleted scenes we see a subplot of yet another red herring a homeless woman who was living in the asylum and watched the men as they worked and became somewhat possessed by the daunting atmosphere of the place.  Her odd identity and the fact that the men were aware of a living presence with them could have given the film the real edge of menacing terror that it needed.  But as those scenes were deleted, the film lost the elements to make it seem scary from the menacing point of view.  The plot of the schizophrenic woman on tape was a rather unnecessary red herring, because it didn't really lead to anything associated with the men.  She was just one of many stories in that place and not really relevant, despite some of the similarities between her condition and that of Mullan's.  Whatever parallels the filmmakers were trying to achieve by telling her story ultimately detracted from the various complexities of the real madness that was taking place inside Mullan's head.  It was more of a plot contrivance than a key to understanding his madness.Still, after several days I still am haunted by the image of Mullan staring at his wife and baby, and the events after that when he would constantly relive that moment in his mind (especially in the magnificent alternate ending!).  That moment, when one is at the precipice of insanity, has got to be the scariest thing in the world, far scarier than ghosts or the presence of darkness (the darkness engulfing Sexton was one of the coolest effects I've seen in a film though!).  A couple of years ago, there was a remake of House on Haunted Hill, which took advantage of characters haunted by mad doctors and patients from an asylum.  That had the wonderful chills and thrills of a wild amusement park ride.  If that's your cup of tea, this film will disappoint.  But if you stay with this film and allow the more subtle elements of it seep into your brain, it will be a pretty rewarding experience. "}{"Title":"This movie shucks fiber, big time.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie takes place in the period of seven days and begins on a Monday. By Wednesday, we're uncertain why we are still watching this movie.  And, strangely on Friday the movie ends.  The main character is predictably deranged.  Caruso is expendable.  And the other characters seemed to write their own scripts as the movie was filmed.  This movie seemed to edit ALL the wrong parts, mostly the parts we NEEDED in order to understand the PLOT. And yet, there were many parts they could have edited. There were times the movie seemed like an asbestos-removal documentary on The Learning Channel.At one point, we are led to believe that old coins are significant. Quarters are constantly used as symbols of...symbols of evil, we guess.  Yet, they do very little to create any fear or suspense.  Much like anything in, of, or related to this whole fiber-shucking film. (Please also read the review entitled Stupid by asd, because we think it's brilliant.) "},{"Title":"SESSION 9 slaughters BLAIR WITCH PROJECT!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This flick is great. I loved it. It was dark and moody and that Carusso guy and everyone else acts great. Anyone that doesn't get the story was sleeping. I wish I could have seen it in the theaters.  It doesn't move at a action movie speed but it moves at the right speed to build suspense. The ending is phenominal.  My girlfriend was freaked out for a week. "},{"Title":"Engrossing  Should not be missed by any fan of this genre!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 was one of the best films I have seen of this genre.  It was creepy and scary without either insulting my intelligence or showing unnecessary blood and gore.  It's plot and character development built slowly, always keeping my interest.  The climax came as a complete surprise. The descent into madness was engrossing and I will likely see this film again.  I will definatly tell everyone I know, not to miss this film. "},{"Title":"Quite a surprise, excellent","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   Being totally let down the last 5 years with  the lame comedy/90210/horror films that have come out the last 5 years. I was in doubt that a real horror film would ever play again theatrically. Tired of goreless and scareless films like Urban Legend2, Scream, and I know What You Did last Summer, I was about to give up on modern horror. Would we ever see a serious horror movie, with a dark tone and proper horror setting? How many movies had to take place in a movie studio itself?  How many movies about rich models?    Well here it is The perfect setting a real  shut down psychiatric ward, 5 blue collar  workers and a horror film finally light on the laughs. It's dark, makes you think and wonder as to what is going on, and has quite a negative nihilistic no one here get's out alive ending. Just the way I like it! I don't want to give anything away but the film has a lot to do with muliple personalities and mental deterioration.   Overall everything from the sets, acting and story was near perfect. The pacing was a little slow the first 40 minutes but the last half hour more than makes up for the beginning. Sure a 15 year old kid will find it boring , but not every horror movie is made for little kids. This film has a little gore but is not a gore-fest, some might be disapointed with this, still the fact that the film is excellent should make up for the lack of red stuff! Real horror fans GO SEE IT. If you think Scream is the mother of all horror movies, stay home you little brat!! "},{"Title":"Bumpy Ride","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Brad Anderson's last film Next Stop Wonderland, a wonderful comedy full of three-dimensional people. And I knew he had deliberately chosen to go a whole other route with his next film. I understand they found the location FIRST, then decided to try and write a script around it and there lies the problem. That's what the film feels like. Like a director fell in love with a location and then patched together images and a slight story. It IS filmed beautifully. Very effective use of shafts of light, peeling paint, stacked boxes, etc. But after all, that's all there is. Endless shots of warped walls, filthy floors, etc. Reading the descriptions of what this state hospital looked like in an article creeped me out more than what was actually shown. The mental patients' rooms didn't really pack any punch - huge collages of cut-out magazine photosreally didn't add anything and the place I felt the director really failed was with the TAPESSPOILER ******************** spoiler************ SPOILER******Here the movie is even called SESSION 9 (after one of the taped sessions of a mental patient). I was so pysched when the worker found them and put them on the reel to reel. I then was agahst at how bad the voice acting was on the tapes. The actor he chose to play the doctor had one of these fake, phony baritones - like that hack who does all the voice-overs in the Hollywood movie trailers, ya know In a world..... So, it didnt seem real at all and the actress playing Miss Hobbes the crazy woman - her voice was just plain and all the other personalities she had - their voices sounded like they were stock, standard character voices. Nothing authentic, nothing disturbing. The movie is very well acted though by the leads. Caruso gives a nice, realistic performances as does Peter Mullan. Josh Lucas is having a busy summer (he also plays the sleazy nightclub owner in the Deep End currently out in theatres) and he gives another strong performance. And I have no problem with a director taking his time in a thriller. In fact, I'll take Robert Wise's original The Haunting over almost any modern horror film out there, but there's slow and deliberate and then there's slow AND SLOW Now, I felt the writers ALMOST pulled it off in the end. Where the story goes and how they go back and show you what really happened to Gordo is powerful and surprising, but it's almost a little too late. The film DOES pack a punch, but the snail's pace and the self-infatuation with the set and the background ends up taking away from the story, not adding to it. A six out of a ten, folks. Night, night. "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie for me is one of the best movie.If someone ask me for a good movie i surely recommend Session9.It doesn't have demons or devils,not zombies or vampires,not serial killer with scary mask,not car accident,not a couple of horny teenagers with hot girls, not none of this usual things that we used to see on terror movies(movies...some ones aren't even decent to call movie).Session9 is an intelligent movie,it plays with your mind,makes you think. It is just a simple movie with only 7 characters,with a amazing asylum. And what happened to Gordon,can happen to any person,its a realistic movie.The probability is higher then a apocalypse zombie, or be a vampire. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but very tiresome","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Before I start, let me inform you of the fact that I understood the movie, from beginning to end. It never phased me at no point, and I was never lost. I got it. Okay.That over with, I won't spoil it for others by detailing the story and the end. Suffice to say, this was a well acted film. Peter Mullan was particularly interesting. However, there was very little that excited me about this film. It seems it appeals massively to the pretentious folks out there who put themselves up as superior beings. Only they can understand the 'depth'. The 'intelligence' of the film.Get real. This is a mediocre piece of nonsense. It rambles on for a good 1 hour 30 minutes, inviting said pretentious folks into believing it is some how highbrow. Above' the 'standard horror movie like Jeepers Creepers'. And what's wrong with Jeepers Creepers, if you like that sort of stuff?NOTHING! So stop being so pretentious! Session 9 is one movie I could take or leave. Preferably leave. "},{"Title":"I find myself agreeing with the flattering reviews","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is an excellent film. From beginning to end I was impressed. As with others, I do not become unnerved by films easily but this has easily jumped into my personal pantheon of favorite films. Considering the mind-numbingly redundant trash that passes for horror today I am pleased to say that 9 is what my sister would call a finder. I would recommend this to anyone who is tired of the made-for-idiots remakes of 70's horror films like The Fog and The Hills Have Eyes. Well made, well-acted and don't let the anti-Caruso crowd affect viewing this film. The star of this film is not Caruso but the genuinely scary atmosphere of this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent premise, great atmosphere, decent execution","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed this movie primarily because the premise for HOW some workaday blokes got into such a creepy place actually was completely plausible for a very welcome change. But, while the facility is undeniably creepy, it was not the SOURCE of the real horror portrayed in the movie. The acting is very mixed, the main character Gordon does a generally solid job but the rest is mixed-to-only fair (okay, some is bad). As for the deleted subplot, it made sense to drop it as it would have been confusing. Despite the great premise, there are glaring holes in the story and some obviously contrived dialogue to set up future events in a very obvious way. The implied horror is great but the Session 9 tapes, while well voice acted and certainly very spooky, ultimately don't figure into the plot enough to make full and appropriate use of their potential contribution to the movie. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A surprisingly very good and very well made atmospheric mystery.The story starts when five contractors are given the task to clean up an old building which happens to be a former insane asylum. Right then and there you can tell that something terrible is bound to happen. It only gets worse when the head contractor hears a mysterious voice welcoming him back to the asylum and one of the workers becomes obsessed with a series of taped sessions that were recorded sometime ago by a doctor with patient. These two tales run parallel throughout the movie, along with conflicts and tensions that the men have amongst themselves, and eventually collide in a kicker of an ending worthy of writers like Poe and King.The focus here is on a spooky atmosphere, rather than gore, and it is pulled of very well. The feeling conjured up almost echoes 'The Shining' in creating unease and terror in a seemingly harmless place and empty place. Obviously made on a low-budget and limitations, though one relatively well known actor, David Caruso, plays one of the contractors, the film moves right along and doesn't seem to have been made less than it could have been due to production constraints. In the end, it is definitely a recommended viewing. 8/10 Rated R profanity and some grisly violence "}{"Title":"Just plain creepy","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film does will not make you jump out of your seat every five minutes, but it may be the creepiest film you will ever see. With this one you just have to sit back, pay attention, and let it all sink in. This film will just give you jitters and make you think about it for the rest of the day.I will also say that I was overall pleased by the quality of acting done by the cast. Finally I must say that the element of this film that added the most to the creepy factor was the building itself and the atmosphere created by the set design.Disclaimer If you are looking for a slasher flick, or do not plan to devote much attention to this movie, then don't bother. You just will not get the full effect. "},{"Title":"damn good","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  pretty damn good flick is a thinking man's horror film with excellent acting plenty of blood but thats not really what this flick is aboutyou have to pay very good attention to get what is going on in this movie it is very stylish and some stunning flashbacks however i was confused i some spots it is a really weird but engaging movie that is tons better then the crap being produced right now this kicked my butt and i kinda needed it but it ended so abruptly the characters are fairly amiable and they handle there emotion scenes pretty well s overall this is a great little flick ***1/2 out of 5 oh and David Caruso rules i love him he did a fantastic job in this so be prepared to put your brain mode on  "},{"Title":"Truly Disturbing, a horror masterpiece","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I came across Session 9 on cable late one night. I had no idea what it was, but it quickly drew me in. This movie masterfully maintains an incredible amount of suspense with the barest minimum of action (and almost no gore or onscreen violence). It will truly send chills down your spine.Some have compared this film to the Blair Witch Project. But about the only thing they share is a low budget and the fact that they're both horror films. A more apt comparison is to Stanley Kubrick's The Shining (which was clearly a strong influence on the filmmakers who did Session 9). If you liked The Shining, you'll probably like Session 9. If The Shining left you scratching your head, this is probably not the film for you.I should add that this movie is selling for only about $10 on DVD. I HIGHLY recommend it. It's definitely a must see for horror fans.I also recommend watching it late at night. Alone.  "},{"Title":"Good Horror in the original sense of the word","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie does not have a monster.  There is almost no gore.  There are hardly any scare moments that make you jump out of your seat. In fact, the most effective scare moment is a sudden black screen coupled with a horrible scream. What you have is a movie that is true horror in the original sense of the word.  It creates a growing feeling of unease, which ends up leaving one horrified at the conclusion.  It is creepy and disturbing.  But if you're looking for a Hollywood slasher movie where impossibly beautiful kids get offed one by one in full frame, then look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"I've seen every horror movie ever made (it seems). This is one of a mere handful that has ever scared the #&*@!# out of me.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Entertainment Weekly gave this movie an 'A' when it was released in theaters. For some reason, the studio that produced 'Session 9' didn't believe in it much (it's too bad, too, when garbage like 'Jeepers Creepers 2' and 'Fear.com' gets wide release and publicity). I watched this movie by myself, at night, with the lights off... big mistake! Great movie, spooky setting, good casting, well-written (how often can you say THAT about a scary movie?). Excellent all-around. One of my most favorites, horror or otherwise. "},{"Title":"A Thinking Man's Horror Film","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone who likes a film to stimulate their brain would be well advised to watch this.  Session 9 serves as inspiration for any aspiring filmmakers on how to produce a high-class film, on a comparatively low budget.  The film avoids many horror conventions, but delivers in areas that most horror films don't.  I wouldn't say that Session 9 scared me, but it certainly captivated me and I didn't have to suspend my disbelief to achieve this.  A clever script, nicely shot...and an unfeasible amount of daylight!I'm still thinking now...  "},{"Title":"Creepiest horror film in years...","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is the creepiest horror film I've seen in years.  Brad Anderson has made a movie that is subtle, and features actors playing everyday people who not only act and talk like real people (which means none of the usual horror atrocities of going off in the dark alone, etc), but also aren't killed off one by one according to their billing in the credits.  The tension builds slowly, without a cheap shock scene in sight, until it is almost unbearable.  Towards the end, the plot runs out of steam and the twists are a bit anti-climatic.  However, everything is so well-crafted and executed in this picture, from the writing, cinematography and acting to the use of sound and digital film, that it's a moot point.  Anyone with an ounce of interest in the horror genre should rent this little known gem. "},{"Title":"Watch this Film","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 is one of the best horror films that I've ever seen and I've been watching horror films for more than forty years. As I read the comments, I was dismayed to discover that many people found the film difficult to follow. I didn't.By leaving a lot to the reader or viewer's imagination, a good storyteller involves them in the plot and gives them something to ponder after the story ends. If nothing else, the number and variety of comments regarding Session 9 establishes that the film engaged the attention and imagination of its audience. Unlike many of you who criticized the film as unrealistic (a five-man crew taking too many breaks while attempting to remove asbestos from a huge building in a week), I didn't have a problem with that scenario because (1) this is fiction with a two-hour time limit, (2) I liked the characters and the actors who portrayed them, (3) I had to engage my brain to figure out what was going on, and (4) the film creeped me out, which is one of the big reasons why I like horror films. As a long since passed-away sports columnist (Roundy) for the Wisconsin Journal in Madison, WI used to say, What more could be better?If you have a brain, like to use it, and don't need car chases, exploding cars, and naked nymphs slashed and diced to bits to entertain you, watch this movie. You'll discover a real gem.  "},{"Title":"This film might be easier understood by a wacka-doo.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film had everything and could of been a sleeper but someone should of told the writer and director that you need to show the complete story in order for the viewer to understand it unless you are in an asylum.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly tense!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best horror/suspense films I have ever seen. On my scale it ranks right up there with The Shining (which always scares the crap outta me). I have always been incredibly creeped out by this type of movie, basically the empty place with strange history and weird things happening genre.I saw this at a horror movie event here in Austin, shown on the grounds of the abandoned Travis State Hospital (mental institution). For those in the know (or who were there), you could not come up with a better setting for this screening. Before the movies would start and during intermissions, we would explore the old (and very creepy) hospital buildings. After this movie I was creeped out enough to not go anywhere NEAR any of the buildings for a good hour or two. I think one of the things that really gave that great feeling was the LACK of sound during the movie. Music never intruded on the scenes inside the building, and you would just hear and focus on the small sounds made as someone moves around or works on the walls. All acting was great, everyone had a great strong performance and everyone was BELIEVABLE as just a normal guy. I think my favorite character was the young man Jeff, who as we all know was also Warren in Empire records. That a really strange link that took at least an hour to figure out where I knew this guy from.Simply put, this is an intellectual horror film. If you are the type whose imagination can supply enough material for you to scare the hell out of yourself, you will love this movie.  "}{"Title":"not for those afraid of the dark","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is probably the scariest movie I have ever seen. Erie, full of suspense and the score adds to the uneasiness this movie brings across.Beautifully pays homage to Stanley Kubric's style throughout and is almost similar to The Shining, I would've loved to see Brad Anderson's take on The Shining. "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  session 9 is a very interesting film, that also happens to be seriously scary. a true psychological horror film, it follows a group of hazmat workers decontaminating an abandoned state psychiatric hospital. well, to be honest, this film scared the hell out of me. when it was over, i was not ready to go to bed yet as i wouldve laid in the dark for hours thinking things which are best not to think while attempting to sleep. the final words of the film are so truly haunting and leave one thinking about the nature of insanity. with excellent acting and director, this one will leave you thinking about it for days. "},{"Title":"I've seen just about every scary movie, and this is the best.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have no idea how schlock like 13 Ghosts and The House on Haunted Hill can be made, promoted, find audiences and make money. Yet Session 9 -- a smart, taut, and genuinely frightening film -- fails to earn any attention.I've seen just about every horror movie ever made. This movie is my favorite. I highly recommend it. If I could, I would take my copy and go door-to-door with it until everyone has seen it.The story is a simple one a crew of five men are hired to remove asbestos at Danvers Asylum, a massive and abandoned mental institution.Within its decrepit walls, they find many things treasure, ghosts, madness, evil.I watched this movie, by myself, in the dark. I kept whipping around to see what hid in the shadows behind me... If this movie doesn't give you the creeps, you must be dead.Hello... Gordon... "},{"Title":"A hell of a scare.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a sucker for a good scare.  If you are too, this is a movie for you. If you don't like horror movies or movies that make you think, you should avoid this movie at all costs.  The direction is tight.  The actors are well cast and give realistic performances.  The movie builds tension at a steady pace until a climatic payoff, which becomes even creepier after you've had time to think about it.  Put this on your must see list if you want to make a horror film which scares people rather than wastes money with cheesy special effects.  "},{"Title":"The scariest film a thinking man will ever see","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *WARNING! ANYONE LOOKING FOR THRILLS, JUMPS, OR NO-BRAIN MOVIES (nothing wrong with them, I need them sometimes too), WILL NOT LIKE THIS MOVIE!I love horror. I hate Hollywood horror. For example, I hate Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer, and all other horror films that are similar to those. Why? Because they're all the same. They revolve around surprise. The big man in the corner with the machete! BOO! The disemboweled friend on the floor! BOO! *sigh* I find it sad. I don't think that something like THAT is horror. Horror is a sense of dread and fear that comes slowly, not instantly, and stays with you, it doesn't leave the moment the scene is done. On that note, we have Session 9.Session 9 has a simple enough outset. An asbestos-cleaning crew is hired to clean out an old, abandoned insane asylum. If they can do it in one week, they get a $10,000 bonus. And I know what you're thinking. It sounds so cliché. Believe me, I thought so too. In fact, I almost stopped it because it sounded so cliché, but in the end, it was much more than that.The camera angle, the background music, and the foreground sound effects all work in unison to create an unbelievable sense of dread and true, pure horror that never, and I mean never, completely goes away. But the whole beauty of it, is that the feeling of dread in Hollywood movies almost always leads to a surprise or a comic relief. Think of the tension of Scream when someone hears a noise and goes in the dark to check it out, now multiply that by ten, and that's the feeling that Session 9 will give you, WITHOUT someone hearing a noise, and going to check it out alone in the dark. This feeling is there until the end, through the credits, and afterwords.But there is a catch to all of this. Session 9 will not disturb or frighten anyone who isn't willing to get into the film. All true horror is like that. Session 9, Jacob's Ladder and the Silent Hill series are true horror, but they all need the viewer to get into them. If you are with your friends, and throw this on at a party, you will hate it, absolutely hate it. You'll be chatting, and you'll miss a bit, and the atmosphere will be lost, it's as simple as that. You have to sit and watch and think. If you are not the type to do that, and want nothing but entertainment, I respect that, I need it too, and you should stay away from this one.In summary, this film is a masterpiece of suspense and horror, and something that, if you are willing to truly get into it, will thoroughly disturb and frighten you, for hours after the credits begin to roll. "},{"Title":"big disappointment","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having heard that this flick was an earnest entry in the field of serious horror flicks, I rented it with great expectations, which proved to be fruitless.Obviously inspired by The Shining, a genuine classic, this movie has a great horror premise - unearthly secrets hidden in a gloriously spooky abandoned asylum - but turns out to be a confused mess. The actors - who by and large do a good job - cannot rescue a script that is illogical, confusing and erratic and that leaves the viewer in constant confusion as to who is where and doing what to whom at any given point. Misleading the viewer is a venerable film tradition, but getting him hopelessly confused is another matter. The film too often abandons story line and coherence to fall back on sheer effect. The film should have ended with the shot of Gordon staring out of the rain-lashed window of his house, containing horrors known to us but unseen (and therefore more horrible). The subsequent footage is anticlimactic.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Boring begins to sum it up...","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" To the previous reviewer who compared this film to a Nine Inch Nails video stretched to an hour and a half, if you've ever seen the NIN video for 'happiness in slavery' that, even stretched to an hour would kick this films a**! If they had brought in Trent Reznor as a creative consultant I'm sure it may have actually been somewhat disturbing and interesting.Anyone who thought that Blair Witch Project was just too intense and scary (LOL) will most likely find this movie to be their cup of tea. It is boring, there is no payoff, for the fist hour I kept thinking there has to be a point if i keep watching another 10 mins something HAS to happen. I was wrong. I found the attempts at building atmosphere novice. And atmosphere alone does not a good film make. I don't understand the films high rating on IMDb. Any episode of the T.v. show 'Millenium' blows away this entire movie (this is directed at all the reviews praising the psychological aspects of this film)In summary I found it boring, Not in the least scary, a crude practice in building atmosphere that leads NOWHERE. "},{"Title":"I really can't understand the hype","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I went through some What's the creepiest film you've ever seen? thread on IMDb, and a lot of people mentioned Session 9, so I was very curious about it. The plot seemed interesting enough and the movie poster looked creepy, so I had rather high expectations on this one. And I have to say I don't agree with all the positive reviews at all, except for one thing Most horror flicks nowadays only have a lot of blood and jump scares (which I also like, to be honest) and there are only few movies that scare you on a subtle, psychological level. And, according to the reviews, Session 9 should be one of those films. But it is not, in my opinion. Not at all.There is hardly any build up of tension during the first hour of the film, only a few moments. And don't get me wrong, I AM a fan of movies with a slow build up, but this one was just boring. The characters were not very believable, although the makers tried to make them deep, but failed in my opinion. There are quite a few things going on, so you have to keep attention and get curious how everything will solve in the end. So it is kinda interesting for about half an hour. But then, the story becomes extremely predictable. It is a very cookie-cutter type of horror/thriller story and has no interesting or fresh aspects. I also didn't like the fact that the whole action went on in the last 10 minutes. It seemed very hesitated. Too much dialogue that could have been left out since it didn't make the characters any more credible, and too many different things going on that could also haven been left out since they didn't really tie together in the end (or at least didn't ad much to the story).Last but not least, the film lacked of atmosphere. If I watch a horror film without the typical jump scare stuff, I expect it to have dense atmosphere that chills you to the bone, and Session 9 failed to deliver such atmosphere. The only thing I thought was creepy was the old wheel chair from the movie poster. "},{"Title":"Asbestos is scary, not the movie","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Flat, derivative, unimaginative, and absolutely predictable. Spend your time at your own risk. Everything is marginally OK from the acting to the set design to the photography. But nothing stands out, nothing breaks new ground and the end of the movie comes and goes with a '&#x85; oh, its over. OK, lets leave feeling. Thats it. Except for the casual and unbelievable way these idiots treat asbestos exposure. And the utterly unbelievable estimate of the time required to clean up the facility. I couldn't clean up my garage in a week, far less a facility the size of Buckingham Palace.In fact, I wouldn't hire these morons to clean my garage either. "},{"Title":"An Average Psychological Thriller","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Gordon (Peter Mullen) and his work crew specialise in asbestos removal and their next job is at an abandoned insane asylum. Things start off well, but as the week goes on, tension between some of the crew members increase, especially with Gordon who is feeling the pressures of his personal life & getting the work completed on time. Things start getting a bit more sinister when Mike (Stephen Gevedon) discovers old therapy session recordings of an ex-patient, Mary Hobbes, who suffered from multiple personalities. Then, when one of the crew members disappears, things start boiling over more until the final truths are revealed on what has been happening.Session 9 isn't too bad, but it is a very slow going thinker of a movie and if you don't like those types of films then you'll hate this. I personally don't mind slower-paced movies if I can get into them, but with this movie it is quite tricky to get in to and stay interested. It's also very much a psychological thriller as well and if you are after a bit of gore then, again, this movie isn't for you.I love a great psychological thriller also, however this movie is far from a great psychological thriller. Don't get me wrong as it definitely has it's moments and some of those moments include some very eerie scenes when the different crew members go through the hallways and tunnels of the hospital. The filming & setting of these scenes were impressive but unfortunately these are really the best bits of the movie.The story itself gets very confusing as it goes on and it's a bit of a struggle not to get lost somewhat as it jumps about, especially in the last 20 minutes or so. The acting isn't too bad either and it was finally a relief in seeing a role where David Caruso didn't over-act as much as he usually does.Overall, this isn't too bad of a movie but it is more disappointing than entertaining. "}{"Title":"The Insane Asylum","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Brad Anderson directed this thriller that stars David Caruso as Phil, the leader of an asbestos removal crew that has been hired to do a speedy job in an abandoned insane asylum with a horrific past. The crew are mostly young and goofy, especially Hank(played by Josh Lucas) who is dating Phil's ex-wife, which causes tension on the job. When Hank later turns up missing, Phil is suspect, but with no body, and the possibility that he just took off, tensions abate, but eerie events(including the discovery of tapes from a disturbed patient claiming demonic possession by a an entity called Simon) and strange behavior from the company owner Gordon about his family lead to devastating consequences for all... Despite some genuinely eerie atmosphere and direction, the characters are unappealing and story ultimately unsatisfying, despite an effective final scene. "},{"Title":"Session 9 was alright, but could have been better","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I liked most of this movie, the setting and story line was solid, but the characters were under-developed and exaggerated. Although the movie was slow to get into, there was still no time to relate to a specific character. Also, Gordon's nephew was exaggeratedly stupid to the point where it took away from the movie, and hank was such a stereotypical white-trash scumbag that i found myself wondering how Gordon could put up with him when he was so clearly going to try to pull something. Yet despite the characters' short-comings I still thought this movie was alright in that it had a solid story and the setting was in a real, unaltered abandoned insane asylum. That paired with the scary yet somewhat ambient soundtrack and excellent camera-work made this movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"session 9","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 was a alright movie it wasn't my favorite. I gave this movie a 6 because its an alright movie but it reminded me of a low budget movie you buy at the dollar store ha. The movie is kind of slow in the beginning and gets a little more creepier as the movie progresses. I thought the ending was kind of stupid and for a so called scary movie there wasn't much blood at all. The actors did good but the way it was shot just wasn't very good. The colors they used were good because they made the red colors stick out way more. there was some hidden messages but they weren't really hidden because i saw them and could kind of predict what was happening next so that is why i gave the movie a 6. "},{"Title":"Watchable,just about..","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When i read some of the reviews on this film,i must admit i was looking forward to seeing it,but that is where my anticipation got the better of me.The film is a TV movie AT BEST,watchable but no where near the reviews it had.The acting in it was OK(even Mancuso wasn't bad)The plot of a Mental hospital with a nasty history has been used before.There are some spooky scenes that get you on the edge of your seat,but not enough to make it a good horror.It's a bit of a let down,good start but mediocre finish.It needed something to spice it up a little,perhaps a bit more blood and guts,after all even a psychological horror is supposed to be a....horror??...sorry all you session9 fans out there..it was all a bit of a let down. ( "},{"Title":"Too much cinematography, not enough story.","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Film making is a craft and an art form. Fans of that art form come to expect different things from what they would consider a good movie. For me, I expect a plot that is well constructed; all the nice lighting and good acting pretty much is invalidated if the story itself is too flimsy to be engaging.That, I'm afraid, is exactly the problem with this movie. The atmosphere is great and moody, the setting is gritty and textured, the acting is suitably dire but holy crap the story is lame. As some one mentioned in another review, the pay off at the end is so obvious and boring that the entire movie is spent trying to throw you off the trail even stooping to dream sequences and non-linear chronology. ****SPOILER* The sanitarium drives a guy crazy...maybe, point is he kills everybody *SPOILER****There are clues throughout the movie but to me, an din hindsight, it really comes across as a ploy to make the movie seem 'deeper' than it really is. Too little is left unexplained or unconfirmed, and what little that explained doesn't seem sufficient to draw any worth while conclusions. The climax really seems to be happening for no good reason.You'll be discussing it with friends and forming theories, but not in a good way. You'll be doing so because the movie failed to tell a coherent narrative, not because it was a multifaceted experience.I still recommend it for the cinematography, but don't expect to be impressed by the story itself. "},{"Title":"I have no idea...","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't like admitting this, but I really don't get this movie at all. The acting is great, and there's plenty of potential for horror, with a wonderful setting and attention to detail, but...the plot...the script...The plot/script is questionably quite bad.The plot excels at misdirection, meaning you have little idea what the hell is going on until the end, which is novel, but it's just not enough. There's nothing else but confusion. There's not even much mood, really, at least nothing that persists beyond a single scene. We get mildly thrilled but then it's back to being confused. Not scared. Just puzzled at What, Why, and Who.And at the end, it's not even something that really blows your mind...it's just sort of...okay...now I get it. Huh. And to add to this, some of the scary stuff is a bit too forced. Mainly the sound effects/recordings. They were a bit amateurish - with the exception of the final sound clip...which is admittedly one of the creepiest bits of spoken dialogue ever. All in all, it was a movie that was moderately absorbing (from the strength of the actors, all of whom did well), confusing up until the end, and lacking the vital ingredient of good horror - a sense of overwhelming dread.I think the producers/director can and will do better in the future, hopefully. "},{"Title":"Good not Great","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie got my interest when I read the description on direct TV. I wound up recording it so I could watch it later. I see a lot of people say this is just a great movie&#x85;although I agree its worth seeing, it's definitely not great. It's very suspenseful but at the same time very predictable and rather slow moving. I understand that they don't want to spoon feed you everything in order to build suspense and keep you guessing. But without any back-story on most of the characters you really don't care about them so when one gets killed your left not really giving a crap. I think this movie could have been better if they would have added another half hour or so and maybe done a bit more in the beginning to hook you into the story. They did get the creepiness in the voice recordings right though, that did send some chills through me, almost like the exorcist movies. If I saw it in the 5 dollar bin at Wal-Mart I might pick it up but otherwise once through is good for me. "},{"Title":"Filmed too well to be scary","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Five men are hired to remove asbestos from an old asylum. Weird things start happening, eventually culminating in violence reminiscent of things that have happened to former patients.I might change my mind about this movie if I were to ever watch it a second time, but upon the first viewing, I didn't really get into it. What initially drew me in was the two main characters. Having a horror movie feature middle aged adults with realistic problems was a nice change. Not a whole lot happened for the first two thirds. The atmosphere was mostly built with a creepy voice over that comes from a recording of a mental patient being interviewed. Then, one member of the crew disappears. The leader of the team starts to show signs of stress. The men start to argue amongst themselves, and it seems like something about the setting is causing them all to act strangely. However, in the last section of the movie, we see that it is the character of the Scottish man who's perspective has been unreliable, and he finally snaps and kills everyone. It was somewhat unexpected, because even though he had been behaving like he was very stressed, he seemed to be the most no-nonsense of the crew. It seems to be open to interpretation as to what drove him to murder--some of the dialog on the taped session suggests he may have been possessed or had multiple personalities. Either way, I didn't care that much. I think this movie would have been scarier if it didn't look so glossy. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Who is the killer?","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really expected this to be pretty scary. If you look at the cover, you get a little frightened just by the picture. Unfortunately it is not that scary at all. But it is a little scary in your own mind. The thing that scares you is making you think, what if I was in that situation. That in itself is pretty scary. The movie is more of a thriller mystery type. Who is the killer? The story line is pretty interesting and you do want to sit until the end of the movie to see who the killer is. The cast for the most part was OK. Peter Mullan was really good and had pure emotion on his face every time you saw him in the picture. A weird surprise was David Caruso. He was good in the film, but after seeing him on CSI, it is hard to take him seriously. There are two others I don't need to talk much about. It is Stephen Gevedon and Josh Lucas. They were just OK, but didn't have too big of a part. They were more sides characters. Then you have Brendan Sexton III who was pretty bad in this film. He was on the verge of annoying. I did not like how he played his character at all. There could of been some better decisions. But for the most part, the film was interesting and it worth a watch at least once. "},{"Title":"All was VERY GOOD, EXCEPT that ^%$%^ ENDING!","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Superb location, great dialogues between the characters, and the acting is very good, along with the direction. As one watches, the possibilities of how it would end are countless! I love thrillers/horror, but this one, with all that goodness and all those possibilities, kind of let me down at the end. The ending's rather weak...it left me wanting MORE! And regardless of all these reviews about what some call a thinking man's movie,I feel they wasted this one by wrapping it up loosely at the end. My rating was 6 out of 10...a bit generous for me, even by my usually tough 'standards'. There was more goodness for me throughout the movie ~ it was just that quick ending that sucked! "}{"Title":"a horror movie without any direct horror elements","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a rare piece of work. the story is very deep which takes the centre characters in it even deeper. You will not find any direct horror elements in this movie, but the atmosphere is itself is very horrifying, you will never know what is going to happened next. The soundtrack is also very good, totally matches with the environment. Every character in it has its purpose in the story.But i should warn you that this movie is kinda slow, and there many unrelated events in it which you might not understand until the end of the movie. It is also very remarkable that the whole story revolves around few characters in it. If you want to see a movie without goofy monsters bad script then this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"suspenseful buildup, anticlimactic ending","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" this movie seems like an exercise in buildup with little or no substance. you're constantly scared, but nothing's really happening. that may be a praise-worthy achievement on the director's/FX part, but makes for a frustrating aftertaste. the gory ending was a complete anticlimax. turns out the dude just went crazy and killed his co-workers for no reason. they weren't even annoying him. and why did he kill his wife? did he have a mental illness history or simply went crazy out of thin air for nothing? a reference to alleged satanic ritual abuses and a shot with an inverted pentagram graffiti in the background makes you take a misleading hint that the denouement might be something more, but it isn't. it's easy to over-praise this movie in an era of mindless buckets-of-blood/jump-scare teen slashers, but while it does contain more substance, it still basically relies solely on style. and while the style IS scary and subtle and blah-blah, a second viewing will reveal a substantial void underneath. i've got so many gripes with it. the titular character, the dead 9-session patient marry - are we to believe she developed a multiple personality disorder (one of the persons is a killer, simon) and went on a killing spree simply from falling on a doll and getting wounded? oh, sorry, i forgot simon (the killer in us all/devil?) lives in the weak and the wounded. see? wounded. and why did mike go crazy? the scene's creepy, but makes no sense. the spookiest part are the recordings of the nine sessions with marry. yet it all starts crumbling at the end to reveal nothing underneath. or at least something infinitely more mundane that it had us believe during the buildup. could've been SO good. "},{"Title":"They'd soak the nut-jobs in ice water, or they'd give 'em a lobotomy.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I felt that this film really took a long time to develop into a horror film.It seemed like all anyone was doing was talking and arguing with each other. I don't know what that had to do with the horror.A lot of the first part of the movie also took place in an atmosphere that was too bloody dark to know what was going on.But, it seemed, after Phil (David Caruso) was smoking a doobie that things picked up. I know that doesn't have anything to do with the plot, but I wonder how his fellow workers on CSI Miami would react. -) Things starting getting creepy and terrible towards the end of the movie. No cute coeds, no breasts, no bloody decapitations, just tight tension as Gordon (Peter Mullan) does the bidding of the residents.The film also features Josh Lucas (American Psycho, Glory Road), and CSI's Paul Guilfoyle. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" For such a low budget, and the sets really bear the brunt of that deficiency, this little flick does generate some mega tension! The performances here are adequate, only venturing occasionally into good, but there seems to be enough good to keep the viewer in touch with the story, as it was over almost as soon as it had begun. The flow of the plot and story are what earn the credit for that situation, however.If you've got a couple of hours to kill, you could do worse than Session 9 for an afternoon/evening, but you could do better.It rates a 5.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Truly defines Psychological Thriller","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is not for the faint of heart. I would also not recommend this film for anyone with anxiety issues or for people who have panic attacks. The plot is softly paced and slowly reveals the characters personal demons and the sense of paranoia that exudes throughout the film. Unlike most films that use the haunted asylum formula, this film uses the psychological perceptions of the central characters to fuel the plot. Filmed in and around the infamous Danvers State(Psychiatric) Hospital in Massachusetts which was demolished in 2006. Very well acted and scripted, and has a Hitchcock-ian feel to it. I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"eh","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not one of the best horror movies I've seen. It left a lot out and left a lot of questions hanging in the air. The cast ( for being a movie I've never heard of) was a decent cast. I think maybe under a different director it could have been so much more. The plot also could use a little work. This is one that I would see again if it were done over. The trailer totally threw you off. They should definitely go in deeper about Mary and her past that would set the plot a little better and then when Gordon goes off the deep end and such before he does that, it should show him being possessed by Mary or  Simon. That would make it that much better and so much less confusing! "},{"Title":"Good atmosphere, spooky, but a little muddled","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film spreads itself so thin that it's difficult to give a helpful review. I had fairly low expectations for the film though, and, in the end I was somewhat impressed by the style of the film. While there is nothing extremely innovative in the script or filming, the director (Brad Anderson), provided a great deal of restraint in slowly building up the atmosphere.The film stars David Caruso as Phil, and Peter Mullan as Gordon. In my opinion, while Caruso is considered by many to be a stronger actor, Mullan provided a deal more realism in his presence. Ripping toxic material out of decaying buildings for a living can't be the best job in the world, and watching Gordon and his crew of workers certainly won't inspire many to take it up as their career.Gordon's workers are supposed to be good guys, but for the most part they seem to be humorless and constantly bickering amongst themselves. And unlike most work crews I've worked with, they don't seem to do much actual work. Instead, they seem to spend a lot of time wandering around the building and vast grounds on the property oblivious to the fact that they're supposed to be working at least three times faster than usual.However, slowly the pressure increases. The atmosphere amongst the workers becomes heated and claustrophobic, like a hothouse. And while nothing of import really happens, I found myself slowly drawn to watching the details carefully, hoping to discover the clues that would solve the mystery, much as the characters are slowly drawn to their own private obsessions.There's no reason to discuss or spoil the ending, because it's actually completely irrelevant to the rest of the movie. Well, not completely irrelevant, but enough so that I felt that the script writers ran out of time and decided to cobble together a sloppy ending. "},{"Title":"Excellent psychological nightmare","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Welcome to Danver's Lunatic Asylum - until the '80s home to many a poor soul and a fair amount of controversy. Fast-forward to the present, and the place is condemned. It stands rotting and neglected, a relic of a more ignorant age. Its walls are crumbling, the paint peeling, the whole structure decaying under the burden of time - God knows what dwells that within its poisoned halls. Asbestos for one, which is why Gordo's team has been hired. An asbestos abatement crew, they're pros, but not exactly fit for purpose right now.The team is riddled with anger and antagonism. Phil and Hank glare at each other, Hank having spitefully run off with Phil's girl. Mike is miffed in general, somehow having flunked out of law school, despite coming from illustrious legal family. Brought on at short notice is Jeff, Gordo's nephew, and despite being a pretty good natured, is also a mulleted ingénue, unused to dealing with hazardous material, and also afraid of the dark&#133; Gordo isn't doing great either, since he's reacted to his new baby and oddly, and is showing the strain of a fraught home life. Despite the myriad issues, he accepts the job, and imposes an ambitious, possibly irresponsible, timetable they have one week to decontaminate the hospital, a scheme crazy enough to land him among Danver's by-gone patient list, because the facility is huge, a vast winding labyrinth of corridors, tunnels, passages, kitchens, morgues, basements, patient 'treatment' rooms and hidden cubby-holes, the perfect setting for a horror film, in other words.Sadly, this excellent, intelligent film was deprived of a cinema release in the UK, but that by no means proves it unworthy. It is, in fact, one of the best horror/ghost stories of recent times, belying a low-budget with elements often neglected now i.e. a good script, good performances, good control of mood, good characterisation. Far, far too many horror films rely upon gore and flashy camera-work to terrify, but Session 9 succeeds by virtue of good drama. Is Danver's really haunted? It would certainly seem that way, with the overly curious Mike rummaging through the asylums records and uncovering a batch of taped interviews with a distressed victim of multiple personality disorders, whose shrink is slowly digging deeper into her psyche. While the tapes (sessions 1 through 9) are secretly played and more facts emerge, the strained relationship between the men grows more and more volatile, and each man slowly making discoveries and forming suspicions, about the menacing building (which is both paying and possibly poisoning them), and about each other. Has a spirit been released by the men's violation of the asylum, or is it just basic pressure? How long they all cracks? Session 9 was apparently written about the asylum, with filming in there always an intention. Certainly, the building is a character in itself; with its decrepit structure and mysterious, deadly past, it is a convincing visual metaphor for a deranged mind &#150; you could easily imagine someone going mad within it. Perhaps this is what Session 9 shows best, and why it works so well it demonstrates that the human mind can conjure up horror without any help from the supernatural - ghosts and demons are all in our heads, but sometimes they can burst out if we let them. Technically, the film is excellent. I read some rather snooty reviews that claimed the digital camera-work was a bit scrappy, and that there were still serious limitations to the format at this early juncture. But the film-makers certainly had me fooled, because overall, the film is very polished (admittedly, I saw it on DVD). In fact, the 24p camera lends the film an atmosphere and lustre all its own, the immediacy, occasional (slight) blurring, and available light giving it the impression of really being shot on super-high quality home video, or through someone's own eyes. I think this film demonstrates much better than Sin City or Star Wars how cinema (particularly low-budget cinema) might benefit from the digital medium.The performances are also excellent. Peter Mullan conveys real desperation and madness as the increasingly disorientated Gordo (though he occasionally goes slightly OTT), while David Caruso, as Phil flailing against the tide as he tries to keep the imploding gang together, is especially good, communicating the working-man's tragedy on show here. On a basic wage, he has hitherto been sustained by camaraderie and beer, but both are in short supply at Danver's. If the film goes slightly off the rails, it's in the ending, which while it felt like a logical and effective conclusion to me, was unnecessarily complicated by the editing and tried too hard to come across as a 'twist', pandering to genre expectations. That aside though, this is intelligent and confident, proof that assured style, quality acting and mature direction can be far more haunting than any Saw or Hostel style wobbly-cams, blood-letting or shock effects. "},{"Title":"Good? Really? (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I think people have overrated this film. There is a good build up and the motif of the tape sessions plays well for the plot. But the ending was predictable and weak. There is no need to think about an explanation for the film as many seem to want to do - it's all there in full moving colour.I found the editing amateurish at times; too old hat with the cross-cuts wrapping a build-up scene - this didn't play well for the film in my opinion and could have been executed with more precision rather than obviously buying time for the build-up.The acting was good as was the direction but the story overall (and especially the ending) seriously lets down what could have been a really great film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is every bit as good as the good reviews here indicate and absolutely not for you if toy have ADD or need your horror spoon fed to you.What I love about this movie most is the unflinching reveal of the final line of the movie. This is not a movie about insanity. It's a movie about.... well, you'll have to watch it to learn that, but like another movie with a similar subject, Frailty, it's about exactly what you would never believe exists... but it does. And that prospect in itself is horrifying in it's implications. Special effects are not needed although I must say the setting and sound effects to me are worth a billion dollars of ILM special effects.I'd love to sit and have a discussion of this movie with intelligent horror fans. It's that darn good and original that you when the final knife twists you want to turn and ask someone did that really happen? And the answer is, That's exactly what happened. "}{"Title":"Effective Little, Macho Spook-Fest","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 is unusual for an indie, little movie, a spooky-fest in the Stephen King tradition. Even more surprising it's written and directed by Brad Andersen, the writer/director of one of my all-time favorite little romantic comedies Next Stop Wonderland.If he wasn't inspired by having seen the dominant setting that's practically the lead character in the movie, then he was darned lucky to find it -- one of those hulking brick 19th century insane asylums, common to upstate New York and to New England, abandoned by modern mental health bureaucracies. (I grew up with one in my home town in NJ.)I had little idea what the movie was about in advance, as I went to follow Brendan Sexton III's career, who has made very interesting choices for a young 'un, including Welcome to the Dollhouse, Desert Blue, and Boys Don't Cry and because my husband used to work with his dad, who used to be in charge of asbestos removal for the City of New York so we appreciated the irony as asbestos removal is a plot point.The line was so long and theater so packed that we missed the first minute and I hope we didn't miss a key clue.The movie is grounded in the David Mamet-ian dialog and macho atmosphere of construction workers, including testosterone-seeping performances by Peter Mullan and David Caruso, that ground the suspense in characterizations. The movie is manipulative for red herrings, particularly in the directing and editing, of what you see and how you see it, to lead you first this way and that, but the uses of sounds, voices, lights on and off are very effective.In a world where indie films could strike it big, this would be The Sixth Sense of the summer. (originally written 8/12/2001) "},{"Title":"I agree completely with mflana1","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a great slow burner of a film. As mentioned by mflana1, it is not a CG fest or a cast of disposable teens getting offed in varying ways. It is a dark, claustrophobic film that builds tension from start to finish. The choice of cast is spot on and the photography superb. The shots of the ominous asylum brought back memories of Kubrik's The Shining. You see the place from the outside and almost dread venturing indoors! The fact that the cast were there to deal with a potentially deadly task, clearing asbestos and were trying to get the job done in record time added to the tension. A modern classic. Excellent! "},{"Title":"Brad Anderson Brings Back the Slow Zoom &#x96; 8 (the fumes make you crazy)","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" My two favorite things about SESSION 9 are (1) the scenes shot in broad daylight, and (2) the slow zoom. What exactly is the horror centerpiece we're looking for? Is it a ghost, a psychopath, or some kind of supernatural astral projection? Well, figuring that question out is the main driving force of the movie, so I won't give anything away.SESSION 9 is a relaxing kind of freaky. Fortunately there's no noisy soundtrack blaring in your face, as the film draws its suspense more from silence than in your face shock. The most memorable scenes are the slow zooms over some tall grass onto the hospital walls against blue sky. While you might catch a slow zoom from a sixties or seventies movie, it is severely underused these days, which is really too bad. It's a subtle camera technique that heightens a guttural curiosity, and it stands in stark contrast to the obtuse and fit-inducing material blasted in your face by major US production companies.To an innocent passer-by, SESSION 9 might not even appear as a horror movie at first. Some good-spirited guys get together to renovate a hospital in Danvers. It's nice weather outside, and all of the conventional horror movie clichés are no where in sight. Soon enough, though, the slow zooms, uneasy facial expressions, and the awkward silence betray a creepiness that has been hidden underneath.All in all, Brad Anderson makes an outstanding film with limited resources and a five-man cast. It just goes to show that when you creep style into a movie, you don't have to rely on car chases and explosions.JYJimboduck-dot-com "},{"Title":"comparable to Blair Witch","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've seen this movie three times now (I have it on DVD) and I'm still confused. The first time I watched it, nah, did not get it at all. Liked many elements of it, particularly character interaction, and liked the mystery and intellectual challenge aspect, but could not get any sense out of the ending. Ditto with second viewing. Following third viewing I decided it's very much like Blair Witch (first film) - atmospheric, weird, creepy, and, to me at least, unintelligible. The best I've been able to come up with is that Gordon becomes possessed by Simon (whoever he is when he's at home), but as to who really kills whom, I don't know. And what exactly did Gordon do to Wendy? I'm not clear on that, either. Great film, if you don't mind not knowing what's going on. "},{"Title":"Simon says....","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a very atmospheric movie that keeps ya guessing the whole way through. Even if you think you know what's happening, you don't know why its happening until the very end.The strong all male cast (David Caruso, Stephen Gevedon,Paul Guilfoyle, Josh Lucas,Peter Mullan, Brendan Sexton III) each give fine performances as their characters slip further and further into the creepy madness of the Danvers Mental Hospital.A little slow throughout- but necessary to build suspense- (as with almost all thrillers) Session 9 delivers a nice 1-2 punch during it's final 30 minutes.An effective and creepy thriller.....Recommended! "},{"Title":"A devil of a horror movie!","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I watched Session 9 for the first time I immediately wanted another dose of fright! It has a creepy plot minus the gore that buries most horror films and it keeps the mood dark enough that it leaves you with nightmares for weeks to come. The director's ability to scare the viewer without actually showing the bad guy is certainly rare in this day of big budget horror disasters! The director tells us a story from several points of view all of which are battling the menacing Simon who turns out to be one of greatest villains in horror history. Less is more and Session 9 achieves greatness by doing just that. Its simple recipe for terror should be a guideline for anyone who is trying to create the next great masterpiece in horror. "},{"Title":"Sweet movie","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was grand! It was great! And did I mention it was fantastic! As per the request of the one who calls herself Rivethead (spelling?), I thought that I would give this movie a big fat 10! Of course, not just because of someone's request, but because this movie was...well...creepy! The setting for the movie was creepy, every single actor contributed greatly, and their performances were creepy (in a good way, of course), and the director knew how to make a creepy movie. I love creepy movies, and this one was fantastic. I hope this helps the rating score for all you Session 9 fans out there, and I'm glad to be in such fine company.-SutterCaneFan "},{"Title":"there's a chair in there...","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading several reviews of this film I was amazed that I am the only person who seems to like it (other than the fanatics). It was a slow burning psychological drama, that like Brad Anderson's other film, The Machinist, has many clues towards a completely shocking ending. This is not a horror movie for people who were brought up on blood and gore, this was a movie that the horror was always around one more corner. Not rushing at you with a kitchen knife. The cinematography was exceptional, which may have something to do with this being one of the first movies to be shot completely on digital cameras. This gave the director more time to set up elaborate shots, and as this set really was a freaky looking place, he had plenty to use. I thought the dialogue was as real as it gets in a movie, and that and the digital cameras gave this an eerie this is actually happening feel (just like 28 days later). This movie is not mindless entertainment, it's a gripping internal horror movie that is as much about your horror as it is about the characters. I thought the end was a little too quick (as it was in the machinist) I wanted to see just a little bit more, but what it lacked it subtly it certainly gave in emotional power. And if you watch really closely you can see the end coming. I still haven't worked out what the wheelchair meant, but its etched in my memory. "},{"Title":"A Horrific Spooky Horror Film is a Gem.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Group of Five Men (Peter Mullan, David Caruso, Stephen Gevedon, Brendon Sexton the Third & Josh Lucas), which one of these men owns a Hazmat Elimination Company. They have been hired to clean up the Grand, Imposing, Abandoned and DeteriratingThe Denvens State Mental Hospital. Which is been closed down for Fifteen Years is about to receive five new visitors. These five men are surprised and disturbed, day by day working in the place but each of them discover things of Rampant Patient Abuse, Medieval Medical Procedure and Rumors of Demonic Possession. But some of these dark secrets the abandoned hospital has but one of these men also has a dark secret.Directed by Brad Anderson (The Machinist, The Crazies-2006, Next Stop Wonderland) made an effective, deeply disturbing film that works as a Psychological Thriller and a Horror Film, it works in Both Ways. This film receive mixed reviews and it was briefly released in theaters but it has a Cult Following on Video. Strong Performances (Especially by Mullen).DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an terrific-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. Although for some reason, this film would have been better in Dolby 5.1 but the Canadian DVD has the Dolby 5.1 in the French Language Track! DVD has an good commentary by the co-writer/director and co-writer/actorGevedon. DVD also has Deleted Scenes/Alternative Ending with/without Commentary by the filmmakers, featurette and more. This is One of the Strongest Horror Films in recent years but Chaustrophobics beware! This film is beautifully filmed in HD 24P Widescreen. (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"you MUST see this movie","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Awesome, awesome movie. I've seen it a bunch of times and it STILL creeps me out. Even watching the movie with the commentary over top (one of the few movies i ever listen to commentary) its still creepy!! Everyone in the movie does an amazing job and its beautifully shot. If you have a Hi-Def TV, you are in luck..Session 9 looks so much more awesome, menacing in high definition...too bad they had to cut out the sub plot going on. I don't know why people would be confused, but oh well. You can still see it all on the extras.I HIGHLY recommend you see this movie if you are a horror fan!!! "}{"Title":"This is my personal take on the movie","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" So this is what I think the deal is Mary, a regular kid, gets possessed by Simon, an evil demon, and kills her brother. This sends Mary to Danvers State Hospital (even though she wasn't psychotic). In the hospital Mary creates her personalities, Princess and Billy, to help her deal with the reality of her brother's death. Princess represents Mary's innocence and Billy represents Mary's pain and regret. Mary dies in the hospital and is deceased #444.Gordon, for some reason, was committed to the hospital and Simon transplanted himself into Gordon after he lost Mary as a host. Gordon lived in the hospital until 1985 when the building closed and has since been trying to get back into the hospital because Simon is driving him to do so.I don't believe that Mary and Gordon are connected by anything besides the hospital and Simon.The part that I haven't figured out yet is why Phil seems to be a member of Gordon's conscience how he keeps saying, You're not awake Gordy...wake up! Is Phil there to help him? These are my personal takes. What do you think? "},{"Title":"Voices","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I think there are parallels between the tape recording and Gordon's psychosis. The part of the tape plays with the psychiatrist talking to Princess. While you are hearing this, the one guy calls Jeff Princess. To me, this linked the tape to Gordon. When you hear Billy, he says he is the eyes and it goes to Hank and focuses on his glasses.Another link between Gordon and Mary is her case number and him talking to his dead wife in the graveyard. Under the tree he is sitting on is her broken grave marker with the number 444. I think this is when Simon might have come in (not sure) but to me, I thought it meant Simon got into Gordon, hence the broken grave marker signaling his escape.The part I didn't get was the very beginning with Phil and Gordon in the car. I know Phil is saying something as the radio changes, but I cannot make it out. Did anyone hear the conversation? "},{"Title":"Even better the 2nd time","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie for the 2nd time over the weekend with a friend that had not seen it. As is usually the case, I enjoyed it even more and got quite a bit more out of it. I love watching a movie like this with someone that has never seen it, especially someone that truly appreciates being scared. To see their reaction at pivotal points is almost like watching a movie during the movie. Films like this are truly rare. No cheesy special effects, no stupid teenagers, no boobs, no gratuitous gore, just a story that completely draws you in and leaves you feeling like you were just put through a wringer.If anyone knows of a similar movie, i.e. low budget, limited release, similar genre, etc, I would appreciate a heads up. "},{"Title":"What horror cinema is all about","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie definitively need more exposure than it had. Great great flick. Brad Anderson scores a hit with a very very low budget horror movie. With a creepy building, some intelligent lighting, sound and with some twisted ideas, that guy got me more scared than I've ever been in years.I don't know what Brad Anderson did before and after Session No.9 but I thank him for this powerful horror movie. Everything is about the place. Slowly the characters are discovering the grim history of this place, are trying to cope with it, but they can't something inside this place is just wrong. With white and brown spots, Brad Anderson is recreating a haunting place where tortured souls were ending their days in torment. So what's the deal? What is scary? Then find out, rent it. I'm not giving away spoilers. Just be ready for horror as you never seen it.A true genuine horror flick. "},{"Title":"Where are the accents??","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First off, this wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen, so I'm not going to slam it. I borrowed it, so not having to spend money on it made it that much better. My friends and I joke a lot about David Caruso's one-dimensional dramatic acting, and having seen him most on NYPD Blue and CSIMiami, I was eager to hear him toss around some swear words in that dead-serious style of his.All that aside, I want to know where the accents were in this film? I spent many years in New Hampshire and know for a fact that you don't have five guys on a work crew in Massachusetts and not have a New England accent in there somewhere. At least have SOMEONE who pronounces the town name as Dan-vahs. That was the only disappointment for me with this film. "},{"Title":"Super Scary!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie gave me nightmares for days! Talk about scary. The story takes place mostly in an abandoned Insane asylum. Now that in itself is a messed up. Wouldn't want to go anywhere near that place. The plot is a little confusing, but the atmosphere is amazing. It's not super violent, but I wouldn't recommend letting the kiddies watch this one. It's a little intense for the young ones, believe me I found out...the hard way. At least we all got to stay up together the last few days. I can't believe this movie didn't become more popular. It's at least as good as something like The Ring or Seventh Sense. Caruso is great in it and so is the rest of the cast. Completely recommended. "},{"Title":"about f%@*ing time","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Finally a proper horror film!This film scares you while you watch it and most importantly continues to bug you after you've seen it. For all those people who thought this film was boring, you obviously don't understand fear as much as you say or think you do. This film is aimed at a deeper level then all those other horror films like SCREAM 1 2 and 3, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and it's sequel and to an extent BLAIR WITCH PROJECT (I haven't seen BOOK OF SHADOWS so I cant comment), the films that give you a cheap thrill when the killer jumps out from behind the door with some sort of mask and a knife, fish hook or whatever, it's a quick 30 second OH MY GOD! moment and it's all over by the time you leave the cinema and by the next day you've practically forgotten it. BLAIR WITCH PROJECT is more along the lines of real fear as it lets the imagination do most of it. The point I'm trying to make is that real fear isn't about seeing some guy in a mask chasing people with a knife followed by gallons of fake blood, no, it's what you don't know or see that will really freak you. Add the element of not knowing to an atmospheric setting and some mood music and you end up with the tools to make a good horror film.Session 9 really prays on the active imagination, it teases you with a quick glimpse here and there until the tension is at it's hight when it all comes screaming out of the gloomy world of uncertainty. Session 9 is good but it isn't the be all and end all of the horror genra, if future writers use the right tools in the right way we could be in for some REAL FEAR non of that cheap 30 second s%$t. The bottom line is that you should watch what you enjoy, everyone enjoys a cheap thrill at some point. "},{"Title":"A craptacular crapfest of mediocrity","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, there's an hour and a half of my life I'm never getting back.  This is a bad movie.  It's not even the good kind of bad movie, where you can watch it and make fun of it and still have a good time.  This is the kind of bad movie that you watch, and then you have to struggle to remember what happened in it because it is so horribly bland that you can't remember. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Reading the back of the video cover this sounded as if it could be an excellent movie, but it was slow and really didn't have the eerieness I expected. The acting was mediocre and much of the film didn't make sense...as I said it had potential (the story line) but the filmakers didn't utilize it well. "},{"Title":"An Effective Thriller","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent film, with an extraordinarily atmospheric location.  The script could have used a little tightening, but maintains enough interest, and builds in intensity to a satisfactory conclusion. This is an effective thriller, with truly creepy moments.  The location of filming and the excellent editing, create a coherent vision that holds you to the end.This film puts any of the 'Jason' or other slasher perennials to shame, both in terms of quality of script, and execution.  It is by far superior to most films in the 'slasher' genre. 'Session 9' is more in the tradition of De Palma and Hitchcock's psychological thrillers, than the Italian giallo slaughter-fests.That doesn't mean 'bloody murder' doesn't occur here, it most definitely does, but the film does not rely on simple shock, but character and plot development, to convey it's chills.Special kudos to Peter Mullan, in the role of 'Gordie.'  This could not have been an easy part to play, and he pulls it off magnificently. (7 on a scale of 10) "}{"Title":"All about the atmosphere!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Man, I'm sick of reading reviews that basically boil down to I didn't understand it, so it sucks. This movie is all about subltety and atmosphere. If you're looking for a clearly laid out thriller, this might not be for you. The acting ranges from fine to good and the script is a bit muddled here and there, but this movie is more of an excercise mood creation than clever writing. The camera work is nice and the sound design is great. Overall, it's a well put-together package "},{"Title":"Pretty sketchy...","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the growing number of films to stray away from the post-Scream genre, Session 9 is a greatly appreciated effort to steer suspense films away from that pop-culture category.But what you get, nonetheless, is a bag of mixed goodies. Some are good, some are bad, and neither really taste just right.The plot is the classic haunted house story, with a cleaning crew hired to extract asbestos from a run-down mental hospital. And like Kubrick's The Shining, the location favors a big part in the movie. But Kubrick didn't let the location do all the work for him, something this film needed to take notes on.As people disappear and the accusations fly, we're constantly guessing what it is we're dealing with here a psychotic killer or a supernatural force? Neither is fully explained.Some scenes show great attention to character development and detail while others exist simply to further the confusing plot and fast forward to the ending, which is pretty abrasive.As a horror film, it works in that it creates suspense and genuine creepiness by use of camerawork, lighting, and location, of course.But for anyone not initiated in the horror fan club, the movie can be quite bad. While certainly nowhere near a classic, Session 9 at least gets the genre heading in the right direction.Grade C "},{"Title":"Session Took Too Long....","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A well crafted psychological horror thriller that unfortunately just misses the mark. I liked this film as it did not have a huge budget, and took the time to build the characters and story - something that you do not see too much in today's MTV movie culture. However, it took too long to get the story going and I started to get bored about half-way through. I usually forgive any glaring holes or errors in the plot, as I like to feel that belief should be suspended for movies - but it really bugged me that these four men are on a tight weeks' deadline to remove asbestos from an old Mental Asylum, and then spend all their time messing about with boxes, tapes and coins in the basements! From then on I lost interest in the characters.Perhaps I have seen a movie with a similar plot-line, but I guessed the killer from early on. There's also a huge clue if you listen to the back-ground soundtrack, and this scene is repeated several times. So the usual surprise ending did not happen for me.I read another review that thought that the Asylum had been found first, and then a movie shot around it - I tend to agree with this, but it would have been better to explore the straight real horror of these type of institutions, rather than this murderer within our midst fodder. But this would have been a different type of movie, and not the film that Brad Anderson wanted to make.Griping aside, this film did have some fine moments, good acting, intriguing images and a moody atmosphere - but it reminded me of those low-budget horror movie from the 70's, and I guess I was not in the mood for this type of flick - but credit is due to the makers for producing quality work on a budget.  "},{"Title":"Excellent spooky thriller -----","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Didn't know anything about this movie before renting it and was pleasantly suprised to find how good it is! I've read some of the other reviews here and have to say that they are some pretty harsh criticisms. Sure there are some improbable moments, but nothing more than you usually find in a horror movie. This movie excells in creating a genuinely tense and disturbing atmosphere. The performances are great, the ending holds everything together and gives the viewer just enough info to backtrack and work it all out. "},{"Title":"Chilling Psychological Thriller","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would consider this the thinking man's horror film; a twisted tale that reveals more creepy detail with every viewing.  Session 9 might leave fans of the jump & scream slasher genre feeling as if they have been robbed. For those of us who believe that what we imagine is far more terrifying than what we actually see, however, this film is hard to top.  I know I'll be thinking about it for awhile.  (Note Game fans could easily view Session 9 as a sort of Silent Hill II The Movie) "},{"Title":"Don't Justify This!!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am an intelligent being. I rented this movie with the understanding that it was supposed to scare me. It was described as a psychological thriller. It was not a thriller, and it was only marginally psychological. Ooooh Hollywood kinda knows what Multiple Personality Disorder is!! But according to them, anyone and everyone can have it. They make it seem like this disorder is both infectious and contagious like a disease. In fact, this disorder happens mostly to women (and by mostly I mean 97 out of 100 cases are women). It always takes continuous severe physical and sexual abuse throughout childhood to produce the disorder, and even then it doesn't happen to everyone. So for me, ANY movie that features MPD is highly suspect. So far, the only thing I've noticed among my friends who have seen this film is a bad case of cognitive dissonance. Just because you hear something is good, doesn't mean it is. And there is no sense pretending this movie is great when it's not. This movie plods along with a lethargic cast and no real purpose to the plot. It goes from being haunting, to tedious pretty fast. There is only ONE outstanding feature of this movie, and it is this It was filmed on location inside a real asylum about to be torn down. The place was the scariest part of this whole movie. But I can't imagine who can maintain suspense over the scenery for the full 100 minutes of this movie. I thought I did well to feel creeped out for 15 minutes. If all you expect from a thriller is a spooky set, then you will like this movie. Just try to ignore the wooden actors walking through it. And if you are reading these comments to decide if you want to rent this movie....RUN! SAVE YOURSELF! RENT SOMETHING ELSE! THIS MOVIE IS BORING! "},{"Title":"Watch this!!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As I looked on the shelves for the 5th time looking for anything to grab me I came across a film called session 9.  It was not a blockbuster film, there was only one copy, I read the back and desided to give it ago.I am very glad I did.  I have seen many films and most of them horror of some type, and I thought I could have this film sussed within the opening credits......how wrong could I be.I am not going to say what happens in the film that really gets on my nerves, but what I will say is that this film took me somewhere I was not expecting to go, I thought I knew where the film was going and what the outcome would be but I was wrong.If you like a good mind game horror, which is unpredicatble.  Watch this!!! "},{"Title":"a very good surprise","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect this movie would be so exciting, so well builded.Until the end, the spectator wonders what happen to these poor guys.I really enjoy this film, which distils a horrific and poisoned atmosphere (very frightened).Movies don't need a lot of money in order to become a great entertainment and a good one. "},{"Title":"what do you guys want????","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can´t believe the low scores here. here you have an intelligent, creepy well-acted independent horror movie, with great plot twists & character development ( most horror films lack the latter ) and all you can do is rant and complain. I really enjoyed this one, it was a brilliant antidote to the mindless wanna-be horror romps like SCREAM et al. and please, don´t give me this  I knew it from the very beginning- bulls**t for I don´t believe you one second. If you´re that smart, you guys must really be geniuses & I seriously doubt that. for all the others out there who are afraid of the dark ( like myself ) check this out. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Don't have to high expectations on special effects, and don't expect cheap hollywood standards (like a hero, a romance, a perfect moralist, a heapy ending etc.). Just watch the movie with no expectations, follow the characters as they develop, and you will love the ending in which it all unfoldes.Watch it with high expectations and try to guess the ending and live on top of the story instead of inside it and you'll hate the ending ;)Maybe that's what's wrong with a lot of grades in here, the expectation of a movie is mostly what makes you love or hate it at the ending. I watched this movie with no expectation at all, and loved the creepy ending and end quote, as it could be applyed to the real world or a real person. "}{"Title":"I am in need of therapy from the low scores on here","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am really shocked at the low scores.  I found this movie very interesting and scored it a rare 9 for Session 9. I found the movie to be well thought out and different. It did not try to win you over by the blood and guts methods, the steamy sex scene methods, or the heartthrob super hero that wins against all odds tactic.The method that reached me was a build up of an intriguing story and suspense encapsulated in the setting of an old mental hospital. Just the thought of an old, abandoned, secluded mental hospital would give people the heeby-jeebies. As I reclined back in the therapeutic foam of my own couch session, confined within padded walls of my own living room cell, I repeatedly put myself in the steel toe boots of the asbestos workers and thought, what if these walls could talk. The history of the old psychological concentration camp would have enslaved my every thought. My eyes would have investigated every architectural curve as if Freud had designed it himself.I would have read those old case files and think most of us out there would have too. I say watch it especially if you like movies such as......well I am not going to tell you, but I will give you a hint. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy "},{"Title":"Sweet Jesus Above This Film Is Scary","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, to all the people who watched Session 9 and either didn't get it or didn't think it was scary, I think you are all living in denial.  To deny this film of its powerful and disturbing effect is a travesty.  From beginning to end, the story unravels to reveal an end result more horrifying than anything I have ever witnessed on screen. Maybe this is being a little overdramatic, but it really had that much of an impact on me.  First of all, the sounds of this film are more disturbing than the overall content.  The music is eerily constructed and placed in scenes that need to reflect a feeling of insanity, and it works wonderfully.  The scene where Gordon stabs his co-worker with the ice pick has a riff of a crazy circus anthem that chills my blood every time I watch it.  And I can't believe that none of these reviews have included anything about Simon's voice.  I was literally scared to walk anywhere in the dark for MONTHS because of that damn voice. DO IT GORDON!!! AAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHH.  How the hell could anyone not think that this film is frightening? The overall premise of the movie is goddamned terrifying.  Five guys renuvating an old mental asylum?  You couldn't get me on that job with promises of naked teen pop stars!  I also have no clue how all the naysayers think this movie made no sense and was too slow at getting to the point. Why has our society come to a point where a film like this gets trashed because it doesn't have a camera cut every 5 seconds?  I hate horror movies that are churned out like Scream, those movies suck balls and rely on shock value.  Session 9 is about psychology, and what happens to the human mind when all reality is taken away.  Gordon broke under the pressure of losing his company, having a new baby, and trying to make good in a foreign country.  He loses his mind when a small incident (pot of boiling water on the leg, anyone?) triggers his undeniable psychosis and insanity.  Again, I ask how can anyone not be frightened by this?  It hits home like you wouldn't believe.  The reason this movie is so scary lies in the fact that it could happen to any one of us at any time.  What if your mind couldn't take anymore and broke from the outside world to cause you to do harm to others?  Normal guys murder their families in real life too. There were no supernatural forces working in Session 9, but I can see how some people got confused with the Mary tapes paralleling Gordon's murders. Did that woman's spirit cause Gordon to go bat s*** insane? Is her ghost walking the halls of Danvers State?  I think that Brad Anderson was merely trying to tie those two stories together because they were so similar.  A seemingly normal person driven to the depths of insanity by their own personal demons.  And those voices!!  YOU KNOW WHO I AM... it gives me chills even as I write this. Again, I will suggest to those who didn't enjoy this movie to give it another chance.  Sometimes things sink in deeper in retrospect.  I own the movie and watch it all the time to see if I can fully grasp it, and it never ceases to scare the crap out of me.  Trust me, within 3 or 4 viewings, every single thing becomes crystal clear and even more terrifying.  So to those who were scared or even as disturbed and scarred like I was, I applaud you for taking in a movie that denies to fall to horror movie cliches and standards, a truly original and truly frightening piece of art.  And to those who thought it sucked...I'll be right over to kill your wife, dog, and baby.  After all, Simon told me to...DO IT NOW!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Creepy. Creepier. Creepiest.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In this day and age, it is difficult to truly define what makes a horror movie. For some, it is perhaps gore. For others, maybe suspense. But one thing should remain a constant, atmosphere. If a horror film has that key element, that is half the battle. And look no further for one of the most atmospheric, and down right creepy films to hit the screen in quite some time... Session 9.The premise is simple A group of hazardous waste remover's current job is cleaning asbestose from an abandon insane asylum. They have a week to rid the building of the contaminent, or the boss will more than likely loss his business and a fat bonus the town has in store for them. However, the building itself has something in store for them as well, and it is not good to say the least.As the days go by, we learn a bit about each charcter and learn they all have skeletons in thier respective closets, with one in particular hiding a nasty little secret that has grave consequences. One by one the crew is picked off, until we discover what the secret is, and how it is connected to one of the patients the asylum housed some thirty years ago.To call Session 9 original would not be entirely true, but to call it better than average would be more than fair. The cast is superb, and make us hope for thier survival; the setting is a character in and of itself; and the back story is enough to raise the hair on your neck. But what makes this premise work so well is unlike most horror/ slasher flicks, the audience is never quite sure if what they are viewing is just that, or a psychological mind-trip picture. In the end we find out, and boy the ending pulls no punches. One of the more disturbing wrap-ups in recent memory.Session 9 has elements of classics of the past such as, The Shining, and The Haunting, but instead of ripping them off (as so many other cheap excuses for horror films do) it pays an homage to them while creating something fresh and inventive. Fans of haunted house films and whodunits alike, should enjoy this moody little monster, so for those we have not yet seen it, check into the asylum, before it checks into you... "},{"Title":"A very good psychological horror, spooky and unnerving.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An effective psychological horror, using more on foreign influence than traditional Hollywood styles. Gevedon and Carusso play well together and build up an excellent tension between the two characters, not hard for such an excellent actor as Carusso, and showing unmistakeable talent in Gevedon. The film plays out well, and provides for some shocks and a nice surprise, however, I felt that the creepiness and the impending doom scenes just weren't played quite right. There were some excellent setups, two that stand out in particular, that could have been fantastically scary. However, something in their treatment just makes them fall short of the mark, and although you can recognise their potential, and begin to expect the fear, you end up just watching them play out and miss out on the scares. Still there is plenty in this film to spook and unnerve, with a great story, and an equally good ending, it's an above average film and a great attempt at loosing the traditional Hollywood treatments. "},{"Title":"A truly great haunted house film","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A team of hazardous waste specialists take on the job of cleaning out an abandoned asylum.  David Caruso makes a great come back in this film, leading a very talented group of actors as the men that have to clean out the building.  While the crew is cleaning out the asylum, we get to see some background of the members of the clean-up team. They all are flawed in their own way.  But, some are more flawed than others, and that will be shown at the end of the movie.  The movie itself is very well directed.  The atmosphere is just downright creepy!  The voices of former inmates of the asylum add to the horror of what is going on in there.  There are so many twists and turns going on in this movie, I was guessing till the end.  I wasn't disappointed.  A great cast that made a great horror film.  "},{"Title":"Holy ----, I almost wet myself.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like going to scary movies. I enjoy the adrenaline rush. It's fun. This movie was fun until the last five minutes. Then it scared the ---- out of me. I don't think I can find the words to describe how this movie scared me mind blowing, blood freezing, rectum clenching, etc... I don't know what it was that scared me so much. But honestly, I didn't even get an hour of sleep that night. Too afraid to roll over, to afraid to open my eyes, too afraid to close my eyes. I wouldn't even let my wife sleep near me. I was afraid she'd lobotomize me. These characters were too real. The story is too plausible. My mind is still reeling from the movie. As the credits were rolling, I tried to stand up. I was light headed and dizzy. My heart was beating like it had never done before. I tried to tell my wife about it, but I couldn't. It was too freakin' scary.I was completely sucked in by this movie. I can't say I loved it, but that's because I don't love seeing the things that I saw. It scared me more than I wanted to be. I do recommend this movie to people who have lost faith in the horror genre. No cheap thrills. Nobody jumping out from behind doors. No horror movie rules. This is completely original. The Shining? Rosemary's Baby? The Exorcist? The equivalent of Saturday morning cartoons. If you want to be scared, watch Session 9.  "},{"Title":"Good premise, not so great movie","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I kept waiting and waiting for this film to deliver...it didn't.  Yes, it is definitely influenced by The Shining.  But it never builds any real tension or true fright like Kubrick's film.Bad acting (yeah, some of it was Caruso's), highly contrived/unnatural dialogue, and scenes that go nowhere adds up to a frustrating and often comical film.  I found it to be just pretentious.I am really surprised that some people actually loved this movie.  It's a mistake to compare this film to bad films in order to make it more palatable.  House on Haunted Hill?  Scream?  Come on, people, these are teenager date films, hardly in the same genre. "},{"Title":"an horror, at least!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Since 1997, the year that Scream came out in Italt, I've never been afraid by a movie. Session 9 scared the s*** out of me. It's poor, superbly acted, with an obsessive kind of music that makes you anxious and a suggestive place, an enourmous castle-bedlam. Also if the ending is like many other psycho-horror movie, this one is above the average for its particular atmosphere that creates. Genuine and at least, really creepy! "},{"Title":"DON'T compare it with the Blair Witch super-crap!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 was a REAL HORROR movie, one of the creepiest I've ever seen. I guess all the people who didn't like it just don't like slow movies in general (I also don't like too slow, but this one was superior), or need more tension. There really wasn't much tension, but there was an ATMOSPHERE for sure! Only the beginning not too interesting, because the actors don't attract you, and the plot seems to go nowhere, BUT you really SHOULDN'T get nervous and disqualify it on the spot. Continue watching, let it draw you, it will attach you to the screen! It's truly PSYCHEDELIC... and the ending keeps you trying to get it completely for the first moments, it was really strong! I don't know why people were disappointed from this movie. I think it has an EXCELLENT IDEA and very good producing, characters developing and everything. I didn't feel like there's something inefficient or unnecessary in it, but that's my opinion... I liked it very much.P.S you better watch it alone, so no one would disturb your mind. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A for atmosphere, F for everything else","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know what the people behind this movie had in mind when they were writing and directing it- an asylum where BAD stuff happened and the trés creepy session tapes of a dissociative personality that also happened to be homicidal.  How do I know this?  Because those are the parts of this film that really shine- the visuals and especially the sound effects in several places in the film are really quite scary in a subtle way.BUT . . .Those scenes only make up about 3 minutes of a 100 minute film.  The crime of this movie is that it mixes in those superb ingredients with sub par acting (once and for all, DOES GORDON HAVE A SCOTTISH ACCENT OR NOT?!?!??!?) and an even worse script.  We have no explanation for anything in the film; not only are the supernatural (or not) elements left unexplained (and contrary to popular belief, SOME explanation is always good and adds to terror), but even worse and more unforgivably, the characters' motivations are never explained!  I was never given an opportunity to get behind any one in this film, which made it rather ineffectual when the killing started.Oh, and incidentally, one scene even made me chuckle.  He can't (go down to the basement to check the breaker) . . . he's got nitcophobia!  Shakespearean wit if I've ever heard it.So aside from the visuals and sounds, this really comes across as a retarded version of _The Shining_.  "}{"Title":"My very reasonable view...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Do you like lots of blood and gore to raise those hairs on your neck? How about tons of SFX to chill you to the core? Or maybe you want demonic forces taking people's bodies over...Too bad, and too good. Session 9 is filmed beautifully, and doesn't need SFX to scare you. The little bit of blood just accents the turbulent understories in the movie.  And what is more scarier than realizing that the demon inside a killer could be in YOU?!?!   Session 9 is VERY good and worth every minute of bone rattling horror.  It slowly builds up and wmakes you go Hmmmmm... inside.  Watching it over and over and closer and closer only brings out MORE questions. DEFINITELY a movie to check out!!! "},{"Title":"one of the best horror films in decades","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  session 9 is undoubtedly the creepiest, most atmospheric haunted house/psychological horror film since the haunting (the original, of course, not the remake hollywood recently churned out). it far surpasses the shining in every aspect, including acting and pacing of the film, no matter what diehard fans of that overpraised film may claim.peter mullan probably gives the best performance next to caruso as gordon, a more than slightly stressed and quite bossy scotsman who leads the crew of five sanitizers (ie 'fiber shuckers' as phil, caruso's character puts it) to get an unpleasant job done in the danvers state hospital, a dilapidated mental asylum in massachusetts that i would not go near if held at gunpoint. all five are blue collar working men with the language, attitude and rough lives to prove it, and seem to have an active animosity towards one another upon entering the hospital. the soundtrack is appropriately deranged and disturbing, and the minimalistic approach of the director simply works--it all falls into place like some kind of macabre symphony.  and, contrary to what most would say, i did not find the ending weak or unsatisfying in the least.  in fact, it exceeded all my expectations in terms of how utterly horrifying and unbelievably demented it was. this is nothing less than classic horror.     "},{"Title":"Solid cast, good story.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 100 minA low budget horror with a solid cast rooted firmly in the physical location of an abandoned mental hospital is a treat to watch. The director builds the story like a jigsaw - never showing us too much at any one time which is great for building the thriller aspect of the story. The final scenes are a little rushed but the movie is well ahead on points.One I'd watch again and there ain't too many of those.7/10 worth watching again. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Thriller","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I won't ramble on and on about this-- suffice it to say that I see a LOT of thriller/horror movies, and this is the best new one I have seen in a LONG time. It builds suspense masterfully and leaves you hanging until the very end, when it is skillfully and cleanly wrapped up. There is no Hollywood Ending, and all in all I found this to be a chilling and well-done movie. "},{"Title":"Exorcist meets Sixth Sense","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A good horror film requires the audience to A.) fear the villain, or B.) fear that the threat could be real.  B does not negate the supernatural, because the possibilities of the supernatural can reside in our imagination (Could I be abducted by aliens in my sleep?  Might malevolent ghosts exist? What about evil witches? Does the devil exist?). Session 9 is a good solid horror movie, yet I don't believe it's one that sticks with you the same way The Blair Witch Project would.  BWP helps you create a villain that can torment you if you're like me, and you're forced to think about supernatural forces beyond your control. Session 9 lacks that, because the villain is inferior to previous incarnations on screen. There IS a supernatural force in the movie, but it isn't a ghost or any other external force. Which is fine, but does that SCARE you relative to what you've seen in previous movies?  (If you've seen the movie, you know what I'm talking about). Session 9 is similair in this way to the Others, because all the scary and tense scenes are undermined by only a moderately threatening villain (or in the case of The Others, thoroughly unthreatening...I mean once you've seen The Others, how in the heck can the piano playing and door slamming scare you when you know what's going on?).  The villain is an intriguing and universal villain, somewhat creepy, but I don't know...just lacks some terror.  That's not to say the revelations at the end of Session 9 are ineffective conceptually or storywise, but they are ineffective if you want a sense of lingering horror of personal threat that craves on your imagination. For those that find the movie confusing, I think the movie makes perfect sense on one viewing.  It's a smart film and a thinking man's horror film, but once you've thought about it, what's so horrifying?  I still give it 7 out of 10 overall. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and unsettling film.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of those movies that chills you to the bone. It starts off slow and builds it all to a horrifying climax. SESSION 9 follows a five man asbestos cleaning crew, trying to clean out the insides of an abandoned insane asylum to make their deadline. But the asylum's history catches up with them and soon their is a feeling of actual eerieness all around. It starts out slow with drama thrown in and slowly developing the characters. And this makes us feel for them. And some of us might be able to even relate to them in some ways. After about three or four days, the horror starts, and the crew is drawn into a nightmare realm of murder and madness. I really enjoyed this movie. It scared me. And that rarely happens. This was a movie that really should have had a chance out in theaters. Its a shame that it didn't have a run on the giant screen. If I find this film anywhere for sale, I'll buy it- no matter how much it costs. Its that good. 5/5. "},{"Title":"Skip this, watch Asylum","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was shot on 24p High definition, which is supposed to look just like film. It doesn't look that different from The Anniversary Party. It still looks like video transferred to film to me.As for the content of the movie, it's been done before in the short film Asylum. Save time and money, and check out Asylum on the internet. It's basically the same outcome except done a whole lot quicker. "},{"Title":"At least I was able to get through the whole thing","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not being able to sleep last night, I found this movie on Netflix around 1am. I had never heard of it before but, after reading the description &#x96; psychological horror movie and abandoned 1800s insane asylum usually a can't miss combo &#x96; I watched it. I have never written a review for IMDb but after reading the first four or five reviews posted here I felt compelled. The plot involves an asbestos removal team which is hired to clean up an old insane asylum and during the job strange things occur perhaps of a supernatural nature. The exterior of the asylum is gorgeously photographed from the sky in its architectural splendor. The interior is convincingly portrayed as a genuinely decaying place. The story is not very original &#x96; except for the asbestos part which I found interesting &#x96; but, all and all, simple and promising and the setting was magnificent.This was not a very good film.To make a long story short, there are two distinct elements going on throughout the roughly 90 minute running time.The first is the relationships between the work crew which is shown and the relationships with the workers and their families/significant others which is implied. Each character has something going on at home The Boss is on the outs with the Mrs. and his newborn because I accidentally hit my wife. The second in command (David Caruso) lost his girlfriend to the devil may care worker character (Josh Lucas) with all the contrived tension that would entail. The too smart for this job character is a law school dropout whose father is the state district attorney who, coincidently, prosecuted a case 15 years earlier that led to the closing of the asylum. And there is the slacker nephew of the boss whose primary function is to be the sounding board/audience for the various meaning of life soliloquies of the other characters.The second are the tapes of old therapy sessions with patient 444 that the law school dropout finds in the basement. There are nine of them (hence the title) and are played in voice over. The patient was a multiple personality that the doctor is trying to make remember something terrible that happened in her past. The conversations between the doctor and the patient are actually not very good but the sequences of the playback are effectively creepy because of the dismembered voice feel they have. Quite frankly, it is hard to mess up such a scenario in editing because it is inherently eerie combining an unfolding conversation which, we are to believe, is leading to some important revelation and shots of men in hazmat suits scraping pipes, walls and floors of ancient materials. But the end result of these sequences is less than mediocre due to the weakness and meandering of the dialog.What I just described is the entire movie with the main plot point being Josh Lucas finding an old hiding spot which contains a cache of seemingly valuable coins. He comes back that night to take them home and, disappointedly, disappears after he is attacked by an unseen enemy in possibly the most cliché cinematic shot of the thriller genre. The one where the character is looking directly at the camera and says with a relieved facial, What are YOU doing here? and then contorts as he is attacked then cut away to the others wondering where he is. There are a couple other red herrings thrown in but anyone who has ever seen a movie before will know what is what.Spoiler Alert!Everyone but the boss ends up killed by&#x85;the boss. He didn't just accidentally hit his wife but killed her and his infant child at the beginning of the job. All of this is revealed in the OTHER most cliché cinematic shot of the thriller genre where the character comes to the realization in a series of flashbacks where supposedly unrelated throw away earlier behavior now has significant meaning. The movie ends with the killer standing in a cell where, it is implied, he has been staying throughout the entire job staring out the window. While he stares one of the personalities of patient 444, I take it the dominant controlling one named Simon, says something that is supposed to be either profound or at least conclusive&#x85;I think. In fact, that is the reason why I came to these reviews in the first place to find out exactly what I missed. The dialog from the voice over isDoctor Where do you live, Simon? Simon I live in the weak and the wounded.OK, so now I understand. Simon was in control of the boss the whole time, possessing him and making him commit murder. Was the boss an actual patient in this institution back in the day? Several times dumping the patients on the street is mentioned when the closing of the institution is referenced. Did Simon do this to anybody else who passed through the abandoned asylum? It is also mentioned several times that junkies squatters and teenagers periodically need to be chased off by an armed guard. Caruso in one scene is seen suspiciously conversing with two of them which is one of the red herrings I mentioned earlier. I really don't know.There is a fine line between an open interpretative ending and flat out lazy inconclusive writing. This movie crosses it. The makers of this movie had two 40 minute ideas and a spectacular location. Simply put, it feels half-baked and was a thoroughly dissatisfying experience.It feels like a short story I would have written when I was fourteen. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am thoroughly confused by the praise this movie has received- to the point of being suspicious of some of the rave reviews.It is well acted for the most part, and that's what gives it an edge over its obviously low budget, lifting it above made for TV quality, but the story is seriously lacking. I am normally fine with a few unanswered questions, some ambiguity, and I know that insanity doesn't need to make sense, but this movie makes no sense. It does have some good atmospheric scenes. I vowed to stop watching it at the first cheap jump-out-and-grab-you scene and I was able to finish the movie without one. There are several good elements. They just should have been gathered to make a different movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad but overshadowed by the real star","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Machinist was excellent so I wanted to check out some of Anderson's other films. Despite some creepy scenes Session 9 is severely overshadowed by its true star - the Danvers Lunatic Hospital where it was filmed. After reading up on its history it is painfully obvious that an opportunity wasn't fully taken advantage of, and that a so-so story was placed inside of a historical structure with a deeply fascinating background. Now that I know what a national treasure with a rich and disturbing past Danvers was, I wish Anderson would have at least based the plot a little closer to reality, or made the building more of the central character much like Kubrick did with the Overlook Hotel. As it is I'm left, after a few decent chills, with a disappointing so what? "}{"Title":"Unsettling journey into darkness FEAR IS A PLACE","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *SPOILERS 9* The Hazmat Elimination Co is risking bankrupt, and the boss of it, Gordon (Peter Mullan) has also problems adjusting to his new role of father; but it seems there is a light at the end of the tunnel, when he manages to land a lucrative job; the removal of asbestos from the old Danvers State Mental Hospital, which he agrees he and his crew - the hot-headed Hank (Josh Lucas), the uptight Phil (David Caruso), the level-headed Mike (Stephen Gevedon, also co-writer) and the new addition to the crew, Jeff (Brendan Sexton III), Gordon's nephew - can do in a week, tops.But weird things begin to happen in that week, and as one of the men goes missing and discontent and mistrust begin to spread, Gordon doesn't seem to understand what's going on anymore, or who to trust.Can the truth be in one of the patient's 9th session? The first movie from the director of 'El Maquinista', this very effective chiller manages to send shivers up your spine all along until the surprising and terrifying denouement, with a use of music and suggestion that brings some movies like 'Shining', 'Don't Look Now' and 'Suspiria' to mind.The actors are all in part (yes, even Caruso - I liked him in this one, go figure), and the script comes definitely from the good old school.For today's ADD audiences, more interested in blood and guts being spewed on the floor, music-video-glossiness, improbable chicks kicking ass (while if there was just an inch of realism their ass would be bleeding to death ten ways to Sunday) and actually CHEER at death scenes (That's not the point if death scenes, kids, not the point at all!) it may be slow and stupid, but more mature audiences know better.Bottom line Interested in an exercise in suspense, creepiness and disturbance? 'Saw' (first one) fan? Check it out! 'Hitcher' remake, 'TCM' remake, 'Black X-Mas' Fan? Avoid (and avoid horror altogether).Session 9 10/10. "},{"Title":"A fine psychological horror film where the 'building' is the star","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Session 9 genre horror, sub-genre haunted house, psychopathic murder. This is one scary movie that should, over time, achieve cult status. My 11 year old watched it without our knowledge and was so troubled he slept on the floor in our room for a week.Session 9 is the story of an asbestos removal crew working in the very real but abandoned Danvers State mental hospital in Mass. (since demolished). The hospital and surrounding grounds are very imposing, sort of Gothic looking. Like a few other great films such as The Haunting of Hill House the location is the real star of the movie. Like Let's Scare Jessica To Death (another under-rated classic) it is minimalist horror, more psychological than explicit. There is very little violence until the very end. Because there is so little violence, the ending is very effective.The Danvers hospital is old, run down, moody, and an overall scary place. But this is more than a 'haunted house' movie. Its the story of the asbestos removal crew's interaction with the Danvers hospital and its ghosts (maybe not real ghosts but maybe left over negative energy or something). Each of the crew members have their own demons which seem to be exacerbated by the location itself.All the main actors are very effective and I thought David Caruso and Josh Lucas did particularly good work.The movie is not for younger children as it is very psychologically intense throughout. My son who was 11 when he saw it (he's 15 now) still avoids it like the plague when it is on cable. "},{"Title":"Genuinely creepy and somewhat original horror movie","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Since it's nearly impossible to talk about a horror movie without giving something away, I am invoking the spoiler alert on this comment, whether I'm actually giving anything away or not.Film is well shot, acted and directed, and is of the naturalistic, could really happen school of horror, despite supernatural occurrences. Peter Mullen is especially good -- as is David Caruso (in a non-overacting appearance).Best thing I can say about this film is it can be viewed a number of times -- with each subsequent viewing revealing more of the underpinnings. This one doesn't wrap everything up in a neat explanation; the viewer has to do some work to fit it all together. Different people may take different meanings -- particularly by the ending, but if something like this really were to happen, would the explanation be clear to all at the outcome? Probably not. Worth a couple of looks, anyway. "},{"Title":"visited the insane asylum","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The insane asylum depicted in the movie is a real place. It has been closed for many years, but the building is still there in Danvers, Massachusetts. One summer day shortly after the movie came out, my bf and I decided to pay it a visit. The roads leading up toward it were blocked with do not enter signs, so we parked the car and walked up. There is something about that building! It is wicked scary! We were there in broad daylight, and it still gave us the willies. I remember in the movie they showed the structure as viewed from above, and it looks like a big ugly bat with outstretched wings. Very appropriate! We didn't stay long before a police officer showed up and suggested that we quit trespassing. Anyway, I loved this movie, and wanted to stop by and contribute my review and story. If you live in MA and feel daring, sneak up there at night, you will get the creepout of your life! "},{"Title":"So close, but so far...","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie had real potential, but I kept getting the impression that they found this cool place to film, and then tried to write a story to match it. Without going into spoilers, I'll just say that there is a sort of question at the core of this movie, and I'd be stunned if at least 50% of the audience doesn't know the answer from 1/2 way into the movie. Woefully, if you already know the answer, the rest of the movie isn't very much worth watching. Many, many sub-plots were left dangling. Early in the film, many questions are outright asked several times (why did the lawyer drop out of school, etc.) and never answered. That's just not playing fair with the audience. Good bits great outdoor shots of the hospital; solid acting; excellent score. 4 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is such a mindf*ck and I think it's brilliant. I really love it because it's not like most of the rest of horror movies we see nowadays with screaming big breasted teenagers getting their heads cut off. If you watch Session 9 and you are a big movie buff like me, you will pick up on some of the most brilliant little things. Such as, the way the tape automatically picks back up when the power goes back on, and we hear the story while everyone is killed. And how Hank is wearing the sunglasses when Jeff finds him. I remembered the lobotomy commercial as soon as I saw the shades, and you just know. Also such things as the repetition of the wheelchair in scenes. And I also think that the fact that this is not a high-budget film adds so much character to it. All of the camera angles and movements, and the lighting in each scene adds so much. If you really watch and put the pieces together, if you really notice all of the little details, I guarantee that when it's over,you'll think you see shadows on the walls and hear noises coming from upstairs or the room next door. The first time I watched it, my living room door SLAMMED shut as soon as the credits rolled. (  "},{"Title":"Eerie psychological horror.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Gordon Fleming is a new father,who is struggling to keep his asbestos removal company afloat.Desperate to bring in some money,the normally deliberate and careful Gordon gets the contract by promising that his company can clear out the creepy deserted building in a week's time. Assisted by his right-hand man,Phil(David Caruso),Gordon hires a crew and,pressed by the nearly impossible deadline,gets the hazardous work underway.But each man on the crew harbors a dangerous secret,and it's only a short time before the haunted atmosphere of the asylum-where cruel and primitive means were used to control unstable patients-begins to work its dark spell on them.Session 9 is a truly eerie psychological horror that stays with you for a while after it's over.It creeps under you skin and makes you feel very uncomfortable.Director Brad Anderson relies on psychological fear instead of cheap jump scares or gore.The characters are well-developed,the acting is great and the cinematography is excellent.The location sets(Danvers State Mental Hospital)are creepy as hellthe huge abandoned mental hospital is filled with dusty dark rooms and eerie corridors.Watch this gem as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"Actually not very scary at all.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've read numerous times that this is a horrifying movie. Actually, since reading that a few months ago I have been avoiding watching Session 9... thinking that it would be too intense for me. Last night I watched it. Big deal. It's really not scary at all when it comes down to it.The movie lures into thinking it will be scary by using the typical horror movie music and sound effects, but it never delivers. To be honest I was actually thankful for this. It's a pretty good movie overall with an extremely Blair Witch Project feel throughout. You can almost think of this as a much better Blair Witch Project.And maybe I'm just jaded by today's ultra-violent society, but the payoff when we learn what happened to Mary Hobbes and also to our main character aren't really that shocking. You get a lot worse on the news every night. "},{"Title":"Long, Drawn Out Story With Very Little Payoff In The End.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Horrifying does not describe this film. Very few films are horrifying to me but this one less than others. If it weren't for the last 15 minutes of this movie, I would not even classify it as a horror movie but it did try to deliver in the end. It was clever and I really did not see it coming, but I still feel it left something to be desired.Session 9 is a story about a group of workers hired to remove asbestos from an old insane asylum. Due to the fact that the owner needs the job, he agrees to finish in a ridiculous amount of time with a large bonus for incentive. The scene is certainly set for a nice horror flick, but given the circumstances, this movie just fails to deliver.There are those that will tell you you just don't get it or some people will even try to make themselves feel better by belittling those who do not like this movie. I can honestly say that I understood this film and I did not like it. I felt it took too long to get to the point and when it finally does pay off, it is not very big.Let me break it down. If you like horror movies like The Ring or Saw, then this movie is not for you. If you like movies like Re-Animator or Castle Freak, then this movie is not for you. If you liked Abandon, then maybe this movie is for you. I did not like The Grudge either, but I would watch it ten times before watching this one again. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Underated...","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After looking at the score for this film I must say it certainly doesn't deserve it.. It deserves something far better.Session 9 has been for me one of, if not the best Horror/Thriller movie of the millennium, if not for the last 10 years.This movie doesn't conform to the regular rules of horror however, but sets out to achieve something completely different than your average slasher flick, it sets out to leave you with that feeling under the skin, even after you've finished watching it.To begin with, this movie contains no monsters, no ghosts occupying the deepest recesses of the asylum, No mysterious things that go bump in the night. On the contrary the only monsters and ghosts in this movie are in the human mind. This monster can be called many things and we never really find out exactly what it is, whether it's insanity brought on by the building, or stress by events outside of the building. This monster is given the name of Simon in this movie but whether Simon is an actually demon driving people to insanity or just a figment of the imagination isn't explained.This movie combines creepy images of dark decaying corridors with excellent lighting, specifically on the restraint chair shown on the cover. It really gives an ominous feel. The directing is excellent with wide angled shots conveying the size of the asylum and how small the cleaning crew is. There are a few heart pounding moments , for example when Henry is being chased but apart from that dread is a bigger element in this movie. The voices in Gordon's mind and the Session tapes all add to this.The movies slow pace is vital to the effect it has on you after you have finished watching it, as when it all comes to a head towards the end of the movie it's like a sudden release on tension.One of the most original and inspired horror movies in a long while, I guess people aren't finished with Freddy Kruger and Jason to move away from hammer horror and onto an intelligent movie such as this.  "}{"Title":"I FEEL LIKE I'M TAKING CRAZY PILLS!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *SPOILERS WITHIN-IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, SKIP TO THE LAST PARAGRAPH FOR MY OPINION*Seriously. Am I the only one who connected Gordon's (and Mary's) actions to that of someone with Dissociative Identity/Multiple Personality Disorder??? I thought it was pretty obvious that both suffered from this and that while Simon was the name of Mary's evil personality, the name is never really used when referenced to Gordon.  The voice is however, but that is one of the brilliant ways that the two cases are deliberately connected.  To give the viewer solidification of a theory... Maybe it's me.This will remain a favorite of mine, and is one of the very few films to have actually scared me enough as an adult to have to sleep with the light on...oh man, that voice...*shudder* "},{"Title":"Just terrible, not sure what film the other reviewer's watched.","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not sure what film everyone else has watched but in my opinion this film was beyond awful.CONTAINS SPOILERS!! A just plain terrible script coupled with some of the worst acting I've seen in a long time. I was very aware I was watching a film instead of getting lost in the story. I actually turned it off halfway through and put it in the bin I was so bored. The trivial arguments and chats between the characters was just painful to watch. The only creepy bit was the tape or the dark figure when the first guy goes missing. Not enough scares or creepiness to make up for the awful dialog and shoddy feel of the film.Should have been great but was left with a bitter disappointment. For the record I would like to think I have good horror film taste and am not the sort of person who only likes mainstream horror's. I'm all for a low budget horror if it still ticks the boxes. This fell short of the mark. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"Going nowhere","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Man. I saw it coming from a mile away. The bad ending, everyone who's seen a couple of surprise endings can figure this one out after about 40 minutes. But it got a 6.8 on IMDb, it must be good, right? So I stuck with it. Maybe it would surprise me after all. Well, it didn't.This film has 2 scare scenes (in words two) and everyone raves about them when they're just about as mediocre as it gets. Around these two scenes a whole lot of nothing is created. We learn way too much about the workday of some dudes and everything is underscored by some creepy music while nothing actually happens. But this seems to be the new trend. Horror films without Horror. It's like Paranormal Activity. A bunch of what I can only imagine are Catholic Schoolgirls are spooked by a dark hallway and a sound effect and then come on to IMDb and uprate this as the greatest experience ever. And the rest are Anti-Mainstream people who pretend like every movie that is slow paced must be good. Because it's slow paced.Well I'm not up for this non-sense. If you like your Horror scary, or gory or even slow but well done like The 6th Sense then stay away from this one.If you like you Horror to be not scary, not gory and predictable like porn, just go for it, 'cause this one's a bona fide 2/10. "},{"Title":"Wha-Wha-What?","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've been on this site because I expected at least one person to agree with me that this movie was in fact not scary, but laughably bad. While I suppose it has a decent enough premise, I mean, lobotomies are usually one of the coolest things you can make a movie about, this was just poor. First of all, that story about the family orgy and baby sacrifice, did that have any point other than comedic relief? Or maybe I just missed how that somehow furthered the plot in any way, shape or form. I also know that the scariest thing I can think of would be...an empty jar of peanut butter. I know this is supposed to be some sort of clue that the guy who throughout the movie rotates a Scottish, Bostonian and regular American accent was the killer, but come on. You're building towards a major-turning point that is supposed to be frightening, and you just see this random jar of JIF. I don't know, but I find JIF far too delicious to be the least bit frightening. I also fully believe that whoever wrote the score for this movie should be thrown through a wood-chipper. Whenever something significant happens loud shrieking sound effects or some stupid chime or something else retarded would kick in. Music is essential in building a horror movie, and this just sucked a major d. I must say my favorite exchange in the movie comes as the whole crew is on the stairwell. The whole argument about the cell phone is dumb, but pales into comparison to what happened next. When that quick zoom in on David Caruso's face happens and he just shouts Fuck You with the acting skills and emotion of Keanu Reeves, that might be my favorite clip in all of cinema. All in all, this was just a movie that left the watcher with countless unanswered questions, poorly developed characters, and a general disdain for humanity. I agree that movies should leave some things to the imagination, but this flaming heap of feces left everything to the imagination. If I wanted to infer an entire subplot, I'd just write a story. All in all, this movie gets one out of a possible nine thumbs up just because of the comedy of it. I have just one thing to say to all off you...IT'S HANK!!!! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A good friend of mine recommended Session 9 as possibly 'the best horror movie' he'd ever seen, so I was surprised when the movie had almost no effect on me. After talking to him about it at length and spending much time browsing the favorable reviews here on IMDb, I am still at a loss as to what so many people see in this movie.I agree that the 'horror' in this movie is dealt with in cleverly subtle ways that are unique and refreshing to the genre, but the 'horror' itself - that which is subtly hinted at - is not actually horrifying, or anything new.DID, perhaps the most abused and clichéd psychological disorder in movies of this type, is not portrayed originally. We're presented with the same archetypes representing the same human qualities &#150; including the 'inner demon' character, which protects the weak parent personality in violent and disturbing ways. That the movie's cast parallels these same archetypes is interesting, but narratively unsurprising.Certain story elements are overlooked or carried out ineffectively as well. The asbestos removal team's one-week deadline is not apparent in their actions. In fact, I found myself musing on how lazy and inefficient these workers must normally be when not under time constraints if this is a rush job for them. The deadline is a symptom of leader Gordon's currently stressful situation and serves the plot and film style in other minor ways as well, but the same effect could and should have been reached without the seven days gimmick if it wasn't going to be implemented consistently.***Warning Possible SPOILER*** Also, Gordon's psychological breakdown is not adequately supported by causal evidence in my opinion. Though the events of his breakdown are technically sufficient from an 'it could happen' perspective, the extreme nature of his actions beg for a more interesting catalyst than boiling water and the stress of his responsibilities. Of course, blaming it all on the asylum and the paranormal influence of Simon works just fine too, but I don't see how that explanation is thought provoking or original either.***End of Possible SPOILER*** Session 9 had a few creepy moments, but two of them involve someone running frantically away from something (original?), and the others are the credit of an ethereal evil-sounding voice (original?). The implications and circumstances of the movie's end, I agree, are also somewhat unnerving, but it's nothing new or even particularly creative for my money. I didn't dislike Session 9, but I was only left with a vague impression of why it came so heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"not scary, poor story.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading the comments on this and other sites this movie looked like it would be a nice little psychological thriller. Maybe it was over-hyped? I'm not sure, but I wasn't scared a single time and I haven't seen a horror genre film in years.The story felt incomplete when the movie was over. I know some people like a lot of questions left unanswered. I don't mind unanswered questions, if done right, but this left me wondering why they didn't come up with a more satisfying ending for the viewers.Maybe some people are more easily scared than I am. I wasn't interested by the story, I wasn't entertained and I wasn't scared. What else is there for a movie to do? "},{"Title":"Boring drama","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As one of the IMDb members said on the Session 9 message board, this movie is not horror. It is not thriller either. It is a tedious, boring drama about azbestos workers.There are no scary moments in the movie, just endless talking. The characters are boring, their conversations are more or less irrelevant for the plot (if there is supposed to be one). As a matter of fact, you can watch the entire movie without sound and you will not miss anything in the plot (not many directors can do that, I agree).The most scary moment for me was about mid-movie, when I realised what a waste of time this movie would be if (horrible) events did not start happening soon. The fear soon turned to anger when nothing happened until the very end of the movie (and they did not need to bother with the ending, it is royally bad). "},{"Title":"Crap Crap Crap!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My understanding is that the director stumbled upon the asylum and decided to make a film there...The film then is essentially an attempt to tie together some really cool images from this abandoned asylum.  However, the plot is crappy and trite...there are some cool images, but for the most part its visually reminiscent of a made-for-tv movie...and the music is horrible.  "},{"Title":"Decent imitation","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Regular guy turns murderously insane under the malign influence of an evil spirit in a deserted institutional building with a history of nasty happenings.A minor version of The Shining. There's even a saviour who arrives near the end and gets whacked.This is well done, but with some plot problems. There's a red herring casting doubt on the second in command - he's accused of lying over a phone call saying the first victim had gone to Miami. Someone was lying, but this is never cleared up. The position of the lawyer's son is bizarre - why is he a long established member of this crew, why is he investigating? I think he's just there for exposition, so the character is false.These guys are meant to be working really hard, but most of the time they're wandering around or having lunch. Maybe a MacGyver-style montage to show frenetic activity? The acting could have been better too. The insane guy looks constipated or shocked all the time. And the dude from CSI Miami does his ... CSI Miami thing.Otherwise, the mystery is nicely revealed and the soundtrack helps the mounting creepiness. "},{"Title":"Womp Womp Womp","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I would venture to say that there aren't many horror fans out there that love the genre quite the way that I do. Not to say that there aren't true fans - i'm aware that there are. I, however, do not cozy up into any one little niche-like corner of horror. I like the slashers, I like the psychological thrillers, I like the supernatural. Hell, I even like the gratuitous gore candy.All of that being said, this movie lacks it all. Everything that makes a horror movie good is not found here. This movie was not suspenseful. This movie was not eerie. This film was not disturbing in any sense of the word. This movie was an hour and a half of monotonous, boring, poorly-written, uninventive garbage.If you are into movies where nothing provokes a thought, nothing leaves you with questions, nothing catches you the slightest bit off guard, nothing makes you jump, nothing makes you feel any shade of any emotion except regret then this movie is for you.No, it's not David Caruso's fault. He didn't help but it isn't his fault. "}{"Title":"Okay but left way to many questions...","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading the reviews for this film I went on a hunt to find a copy to watch. I just watch it and it wasn't all bad, but way to much of the story is left to question for me. Was Simon just an evil entity or a demon that took possession of who ever enter the room after Mary died? Why did we see Hank in the stairway only to see him a few senses later in a dark tunnel... Way to much was left open and not explained very well. And the haunted asylum bit is getting a little old. But what the story was lacking the acting made up for, and the cast in this feature was actually great. I don't believe the movie was a waste of time, just a little to open for my tastes. "},{"Title":"RapidReview~10","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Had high hopes after reading a few reviews but they were dashed~ Nothing happens for the first hour and then nothing much happens after that~I would have preferred the plot to have been based on painters rather than asbestos removers because i think watching paint dry would have been more interesting~ At least i had a large bottle of cider to help me through as i doubt that i would have managed otherwise~I hated the musical bits too~Acting was fine as well as the production but just soOoOOoOo dull~ "},{"Title":"Sessions too many","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie starts with some promise... creepy old insane asylum-- an old 19th century child's wheel chair at the faaaar end of a hall-- that is not ever quite accessible).Sprinkle with characters there to clean out the asbestos in the building-- characters that continue to change personalities(including Peter Mullan who just can't quite maintain his Scottish/Irish/English accent or his American Accent-- whichever it should have been) and David Caruso (CSI Miami) who fortunately does not do a Lieutenant Horatio Caine (YOOOOOWWW!)Take every horror cliché and put them into a barrel of monkeys, shake thoroughly, and spill them on the table.That is the plot of Session 9. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is not without merit but in the end fails to deliver enough bang for the buck. This is a slow moving movie which I enjoy, as it lends itself to higher creep factor and more psychological thrills, however that setup only works if you get a good reward at the end. Things to note - this movie def has a decent creepy factor, a believable cast with good acting, great sound effects, decent dialogue, and a healthy dose of what I will call unknowns. Unknown being factors you aren't sure about (altho for this movie I think things got a little too confusing at one point as it was trying to lead you in too many directions at once so you wouldn't realize what this movie is really about). I will say that visual of the chair is pretty damn cool tho. In any case, the end result turns out to be the type of thriller that's been done by others and done well by others. This didn't really offer up anything new to me and the ending was a bit of a let down considering the wait you put in for something to happen. If you are looking for a thriller, go watch something like Identity, or if you want something more towards horror inside an asylum, go watch Grave Encounters. "},{"Title":"Meh.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *May contain spoilers* While this movie had a lot potential (sheerly because of the style and artistry of the shots), I feel like it fell flat in a number of areas.For starters, it mostly felt like a low-budget team ripped off styles and the plot of The Shinning in a scarier setting and with less character development. The characters didn't carry the suspense or tone of the movie because they were all fairly confused or unconcerned with the action of the plot and didn't really express fear until the moment they were actually murdered. If the characters don't care about their own reality, why should I? (If Danny or Mrs. Torrence simply didn't give a damn about the haunting or Jack's strange behavior and went about their business until he attempted to kill them, you'd have this movie.) While the movie is indeed creepy,they also introduced a number of plot points and symbolism (the gang rape story which had absolutely nothing to do with any of the session recordings, coins, the torture chair...etc.) and completely failed to address their significance, which leads a lot of the suspense to fizzle out, sadly. With minimal effort or backstory, most of the creepiest scenes could have been united to work towards some sort of over-arching plot. No such luck.At the end of the movie, I didn't much care that any of the characters died... Because all of them were fairly undeveloped or unlikable. (I guess they didn't get their $10,000 bonus after all. Sadface.) The explanation of Simon was also pretty weak and uncompelling.This movie should have been awesome, but doesn't really offer the audience anything but atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Don't watch this movie.","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I will not sugar coat or lie to anyone reading this, THE BIGGEST WASTE OF TIME EVER. I'm not even trying to pick on any of the actors, this was just one long drawn out movie. Too many times I found myself checking the time marker to see how much time was left, hoping something was going to happen soon, and it did. The movie ended!?! I want my hour and a half back. I began watching this movie thinking it was a horror movie, and I sat patiently throughout the length of it, thinking at some point it would pick up. But it never did, and the plot was so bleak, I'm surprised I didn't fall asleep. I don't recommend anyone ever watch this movie. There are many more drama-horror type movies out there, and this one shouldn't ever even be considered any type of horror. More like a boring soap opera with an all-male cast. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch but don't expect your mind to be blown.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was OK. It didn't frighten me or make me think at all. It's one of those movies, like Shutter Island, that if you are paying any attention at all, you will have figured out in the first quarter of the movie. Unlike Shutter Island though, with it's fairly effective red herrings, this one tries to throw you off the track so ham fistedly, that you have to believe the makers were struggling just to get someone to stay interested to the end. The conclusion is neither original or frightening. Some of my friends enjoyed it and apparently didn't see it coming but they don't have the attention span to pay attention to the details as they are happening in the movie. I was left thinking... WELL DUH!! "},{"Title":"Session 9 is the genesis of the new American Horror Film!","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes u go for a movie and wonder why the hell didn't i go for an evening walk instead or why i didn't go to bed early today... Session 9 will make you wonder why do i bother to go to movies. Its one of those movies which makes you laugh..... on yourself. The movie has a basic storyline of revenge with unlimited flaws which we can ignore. But can we ignore the below average acting or the poor direction and editing of the movie? Apart from the background music i don't think the film makers have paid a lot of attention to what exactly they want to make. The movie was neither a thriller nor an emotional outburst. In the end it made me wonder was it a spoof of some Bollywood movie.GOD knows what inspires director for such an atrocious drivel..WOW superb...awe inspiring...i and only i know how i frittered away my money on such an odd sickening flick..how a ghost with multiple personalities takes charge has been shown trillion and trillion times on silver screen but yet if someone really wanna do something similar again Arrey Yaar then do that with absolute sole and heart.The screenplay at some frame of time becomes sloppy and one thinks so sorry for the director and for an audience its very aggravating.The MPD Psycho series,etc had the same leitmotiv but to every frame was better than this flick. If a good discussion requires some positive point then the positive point about the movie lies in the fact that all the female cast were eye popping.wow...OK David Caruso was dandy,fine..ya Charley Broderick looks good in his big cameo..and few laughs from our Peter Mullan was digested well..what good things could i speak of..Haan the climax is well knitted and how the whole chaos aggravate their plans is too hilarious...rest every thing same old.old wine in an old bottle only... "},{"Title":"Intense, creepy, scary, without the hokey humor.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely love this movie, for a number of reasons. First, and most importantly, it is simply a great psychological horror movie. Scary, intense, eerie, disorienting, disturbing, nightmarish, and above all else, original.Secondly, I really dig that it never resorts to the witty, hip and self-referential humor that has been an unfortunate staple of horror movies since SCREAM. Another reason I love it is it's unrelenting nastiness, and its refusal to pull punches. It is, at its core, the story of a mind disintegrating, and destroying the lives surrounding it. I don't think there's much of any allegory going on here, I think it's a straightforward story, with very little subtext. I don't mind movies being about something other than what they seem to be about, but it's also refreshing to watch a movie that is what it is. I think the parallel stories of the present day nightmare and the tape recording of the disturbed female patient is a brilliant structure, and adds so many more layers to the movie than it would have otherwise had.**POSSIBLE SPOILER COMING UP** I can understand someone finding this movie hard to follow, because it is quite complex and multi-layered. But a second viewing will clear everything up (and add to the scariness). A few hints first of all, there is NO supernatural element to this movie; what happens has nothing to do with ghosts or malevolent spirits.Second, the last line of the movie pretty much sums it all up. It is only a method of storytelling that the woman on the tape speaks in the same voice that Gordon hears in his head the point is that the two people are suffering from the same delusions, and are hearing the same voices and have the same capacity for brutality. This is a great movie, one of the best horror movies I've ever seen. Highly, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"BIG Disappointment!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with the posting of Average Viewer that the previous postings were totally misleading regarding the brilliant artistry of the movie, when, in actuality, this movie was a huge disappointment.  The only good thing about it was Peter Mullan, who is one of the best actors of our time (and thank God he used his natural accent in this piece!).The previous postings reported that the mystery of the movie was tied up in the end  -  it was not.  I have watched horror, thrillers, mysteries, and twist-ending movies all of my life, and have always had a proclivity to figure out the premise.  In this movie, however, I am sitting here immediately after watching it and am distressed because I have no idea exactly what the plot was supposed to be about.  It was an enormous build-up to an end that made no sense at all, and those who PRETEND to get it are pretentious idiots who are affecting cinematic knowledge when, in fact, that have no idea what they are posting about!  This movie has no explanation at all regarding what was going on during the entire length of it.The actual movie, itself, seemed to be exciting and well-done, until you got to the end,which was a huge disappointment because of the let-down.  One feels vacant after watching it, and I suggest not doing so.  The acting was good, and the progression as well, but if you don't like to be left hanging after watching a movie  -  don't watch it. "}{"Title":"Script Wasted","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well, till now, I have just reviewed positively on IMDb. Or perhaps i have reviewed only good movies. For the first time i am coming up with a negative one. Ask me why? The rating is 6+. Obviously it does not deserve these many stars. To start off, movie is toooo slow to be a mystery, yes there are a few high moments. But they come off too late. Mystery is good, but the way it is summed up is a waste. The script, plot and storyline were amazing, its only that they were not showcased in the right manner. Could have been a great film, if there were a few good lines and a little better camera work done. The performances are weak in fact there are scenes where the actors are just crawling on there knees. The only thing that kept me in this movie was the mystery factor. The UNPREDICTABILITY steels the show and that's why i rate it 4 on a scale of 10. The background score(was there any score at all??) I don't recall it. Yes and that is how the film turns out to be as well Very very very forgettable! Don't watch it because of the stars you see next to the movie name. Watch if you are really a personality disorder movies freak and have seen almost all and are now willing to see anything an everything! "},{"Title":"You're all joking, right?","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just want to make sure we all watched the same movie and my deepest, most sincere fear is that we all did and some of you actually gave this a high rating.This movie is completely dull and horrendous. There is nothing over my head or some point I'm missing; this movie is truly a total waste of time and a waste of space in the horror genre. Whatever some of you categorize as psychological horror is equivalent to people thinking Catcher in the Rye is quality literature. Get off of my internet.I once watched a gerbil shove an entire stick of celery into his mouth, chipmunk cheek it and run on his wheel while he finished swallowing. That was good. This was bad.2 stars for making me laugh, but in my heart of hearts; it's a solid 1. "},{"Title":"Waste of time...","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I fail to find anything remotely interesting about any part of this movie. If you are looking for a scare and thrill, you won't find it. Interesting story line, in the beginning it did seem like it had potential . Once you get to the point in the movie where the characters have been established, and you are starting to get into the scary location, which it is, i mean an abandoned mental institution with a fairly descent bit of thrilling music, thats it. From there on its a complete let down. The only thing that keeps you watching is that you are clueless of what all this seemingly useless random bits of past, present issues have in common and how its going to unfold. You really want all of it to come to something interesting and have a drop of 'oh my god, i see now'. In the end, really really disappointed, as i see a poor attempt at making a 'clever' movie. "},{"Title":"At least in this movie, David Caruso isn't taking his sunglasses off, oh, so dramatically in every scene.","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This one has everything dangerous misrepresentations of the more violent forms of schizophrenia, the subtle nuances of the asbestos removal trade, the pain in the ass barroom-intellectual that won't bring his long winded topical anecdotes to an end without a twang or up beat in the films score character, and, of coarse, a lot of mullet jokes (we all saw that coming from the film's cover, didn't we?). From reading this, I don't want you to get the sense that I completely hated this one. It's not that at all. I'm simply saying that the Barney Miller marathon that's likely running on TV Land on any given weekend would be a pleasant alternative to watching it. Picture Psycho or Fight Club without the writers/directors/producers/anyone else trying to put clever, scary ideas into an already full medium, and add that god-awful fire crotch, Caruso, to the cast. That's pretty much it. "},{"Title":"Asbestos isn't nearly as scary as this psycho","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Totally different from the usual run of the mill horror flic where Freddy or Jason run amok slashing and smearing blood helter skelter. The kind of crap that is neither spooky nor entertaining. Session 9 was a breath of fresh air that delivered plenty of tension and a constant sense of wondering what's going on here?. I admit the film was confusing but not so much as to be offputting because even the confusion went along with the overall presence of impending doom. The real star of the picture was the old, crumbling, former nuthouse with it's dark corridors and creepy atmosphere. If you like your horror flics bloody you won't be let down but you must be patient...and even more calm while awaiting the identity of the killer. 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"CREEPY BUT CONFUSING & PRETENTIOUS","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The other comments described the story very well so I won't bother with that. The characters are very ill defined and the film, although very atmospheric, tends to be confusing and sometimes even boring just because we don't really know or care who they are and what or why their undefined fears take control of them and actually what even happens at the end. "},{"Title":"It's Up...Good attempt and its.......No Good!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sorry, but it didnt do it for me. Too many things just didnt seem to work here. There was some good acting at times yet nothing to really sink a tooth into. Has a dark and suspensful look at times but the way the story was told was too little too late. You need more then location and a bit of suspense to tell an interesting story. It lost focus throwing too many sidetrack tales with no build. Like streams wondering off making puddles instead of all combineing together making a whole.  "},{"Title":"I Have No Idea!?","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't really understand what happened in the end. I just felt like asking, 'that was it?'. To sort of understand it I had to piece everything together and then I could see how it flowed but even then there were so many holes in the theory that not a lot of sense was made. Like how in hell were only five guys supposed to clean a mansion-sized building in a week just during daylight hours? That's just one of the many concepts that didn't quite work. Also it'd begin to introduce the characters and start to go into their backgrounds (which was interesting) when after a couple minutes the conversation would be interrupted. It's not that scary either, maybe a little eerie here and there but considering that they had the perfect location to freak people out with a lot more could've been done here (i.e. House on Haunted Hill style). The acting was okay but since they had some pretty decent people on board I was expecting much better. The fact that this was just another movie that touched bases with multiple personality disorder for about the one-millionth time, that kind of had me disappointed to begin with.Final CleansingMovies Wouldn't touch it with a ten-foot pole!DVD Purchase I probably would be able to pick up more watching it again but don't have the desire to.Rental If you're a horror fan and want something different, you might as well. "},{"Title":"BAD!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i just want to put a terrible review here to counteract that good one. this movie is SO bad. I love the idea of things that could happen in an abandoned mental hospital. but this movie disintegrates into a non-sensical generic mishmash of a bunch of wacky things happening for no reason - it's like someone combined the results of the shining (badly) with an idea but never connected them. there's a beginning and an end, but no content. it's just terrible.  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie the other night when my boyfriend rented it. It looked intriguing, so we decided to give it a chance. I was highly disappointed by this movie. This was not chilling, or creepy, in any way shape or form. It was disjointed, poorly developed, and the red herrings only served (imho) to fill up space and distract the viewer from the fact that nothing else is going on worth paying attention to. This film could have been so much better. I like movies that are twisted and confusing as long as I feel fulfilled at the end. This movie only left me wanting my 2 hours back.2/10 "}{"Title":"Idiotic for the simplest reason","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am familiar with a number of people who loathe this film, but not one who loathes it for the most obvious reason. A crew of five men is hired to remove the asbestos from the walls of an abandoned old mental hospital in one week's time. The problem is, we can tell from the exterior shots of this hospital that it has something like two hundred rooms, and so it is perfectly clear that the job would never be able to be done by a crew of five men within a week. If the hospital had twenty rooms, then I would bother discussing the various inanities in this film, but since the film is so incredibly stupid within the first few minutes, why should I bother? "},{"Title":"Should be redone","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Have you ever liked the setting and premise of a movie; just to watch it fall flat on it's face? That's what it's like watching this movie.I wanted to give it a 5 star rating; but the characters were so well written and the dialogue done well that I had to up my stars to give this a 7. But despite this the characters weren't likable. When they were picked off one by one, I was glad because it meant the movie was closer to ending.The story moves too slowly, and the audience is blindsided by Simon's true nature at the end. I have to wonder if the marijuana reference in the movie meant that you had to be stoned to passively ride the predictable plot till the a ha moment where the revelation finally presents itself. Maybe I'm a dreamer, and maybe it's out of place in the current trend of society dumbing down; but I still believe that audiences want to engage with the movie they are watching. The audience wants a chance to predict what happens next; but the movie can't be too predictable. It is this fine line that the creators must walk to grab and keep the attention of their viewers. Not petty interpersonal drama. Sadly this movie had way too much of it. It seemed more like a soap opera than it did a horror movie.This movie would be a hit if they remade it. And if they do remake it they should cut out a lot of the interpersonal drama and expand the mythology of Simon more. Give something the audience can follow through with. Give us clues to notice through the movie so we are taken on the journey with the workers to find out what's going wrong in the asylum. Have more characters, too. Just the four made it seem like a squabbling knitting circle gone wrong. "},{"Title":"Tries a little TOO hard...","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Judging by the incredibly high amount of praising user comments around here, I've either seen a different film or...missed the entire point (wouldn't be the first time, of course). Session 9 is being described as the most intelligent horror film in years, genuinely creepy and amazingly atmospheric with unpredictable twists. Well, that's all pretty much true but then it still lacks something very essential impact! I'll be the first to admit that the tension in this screenplay is terrifically build up and that several uncanny events make you look forward to an almost unbearably tense climax, but then....nothing! What's the point of all this mystery and secrecy when the whole revelation is dull and disappointing? Sure you don't see the ending coming but that doesn't mean it's good! That just means that it was far too illogical for anyone to guess. To me, Session 9 works best as a psychological drama with sublime character drawings. The best aspect about the screenplay is that it features almost no dreadful clichés. The characters are ordinary working men, prepared to labor hard and under bizarre circumstances as long as there's a bonus attached to it! The story is about a small waste materials disposal-company that accepts working in an abandoned asylum and NOT about a group of sex-craving teenagers that break into one and encounter ghosts from the past (which was, I admit, what I initially feared this movie would be about). The setting is authentically spooky and the nifty, naturalistic camera-work results in a couple of highly memorable sequences. The acting is great and Brad Anderson's directing is of high quality. Session 9 is a terrific film as long as you focus on the atmosphere and production values. The plot may seems impressive but, the more you question and analyze it, the weaker it gets. "},{"Title":"Homage to The Shining?","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The redeeming features of this film are few and far between. A combination of awkward pacing, poor script writing and unnecessary stock horror plot devices combine with David Carruso's typically shoddy and uneven acting to make this lazy rip-off. Throw in a couple of unfitting camera shots (stolen from Sam Raimi among others) and we're left with a clear view of what this film is; neither an homage to horror greats nor a film which is original in it's own right. Brad Anderson should be ashamed of such a lacklustre piece of plagiarism. The plot is slow through the first half of the film then descends into clumsiness towards the end. It is no wonder that many people find it confusing. The attempted addition of a twist and the awkward levering in of various plot devices leaves a bitter taste in the mouth. If you disregard the final 15 minutes of the film i doubt this could fall into the horror genre, both suspense and fright are very sparse until that point. Likewise the final minutes of the film are spent slowly revealing what has actually been going on for the last 15. In summary there is no reason to see this film, instead watch the films that have been awkwardly spliced onto The Shining to create this mess. "},{"Title":"Awesome location, LAME story","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched Session 9 for the building, and perhaps that explains my reaction to the film What a waste! It really is a wonderful setting for a horror movie, and it's a shame that SUCH a weak movie was set here. A ****** making people ****? Wow, how original. Geez. And to the people who didn't think it was predictable-- maybe YOU have experienced a lobotomy first hand and thus didn't see that coming.I really do think the weak part was the writing. The cast wasn't bad, the music was good, as previously mentioned the location was amazing, the direction was okay, the photography was okay. But WOW, the dialog didn't even have me believing in the characters and the plot was LAME.If you want to see an excellent ghost story, I highly recommend The Uninvited. http//www.us.imdb.com/title/tt0037415/ I'd be surprised if it didn't give you nearly as many chills as Session 9, which is impressive for a movie made in the 1940s!BTW according to wikipedia, the lobotomy was the creation of a Swiss doctor. (In the documentary on the DVD, which I enjoyed, an actor says that lobotomies were first used at Danvers.) "},{"Title":"Promising start, but only gets worse with time - very trivial ending!","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" You are in the mood for some horror movie, a good one, not too much slaughtering, but still a bit of psycho-factor? Go pick up The Ring, maybe, or Hard Candy. Just, don't go for this one.While the beginning of the movie is really promising, has you watching with all attention focused on the cast and plot .. the movie only gets worse with time. The middle part is full of weird slow camera work which honestly had me feeling bored pretty soon because used far too often.Though, worst of all the ending of the movie. It happens too fast, does not explain anything in detail - and, on top of it all, is absolutely unoriginal, one of the most trivial endings I have ever seen in horror movies.With all due respect, this movie is not worth more than 4/10. "},{"Title":"Meh.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted so hard to like the movie and ended up being dreadfully unimpressed, largely due to various reasons that have been already stated here so, I'll try not to repeat.The picture quality (DV to film) is a little fuzzy and looks cheap where other movies made in the same process haven't, Caruso's performance is as over the top as it usually is and Peter Mullen is - as always - a joy to watch, but kudos to both (plus Paul Guilfoyle) for supporting the film-makers of tomorrow in low-profile projects such as this.  It's always nice to see an absence of egos in people that could easily keep up appearaces in more populous-driven stuff.It's a great idea for a movie but stutters over a script which seemed two rewrites short of being finished combined with laboured and uninspired directing and a general feeling of a bunch of guys messing around with a camcorder of a weekend really lets the look and feel of the piece down (although there were a few scenes that showed some raw directoral talent) made for a painfully average 100 or so minutes, but my support of low-buget independent film making prevents me from not congratulating them on a good try at least.Give it a go if you see it on tv, but don't spend any money on it. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?!?","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading 9* and 10* reviews of this film, I thought I'd be in for a treat. Although, it didn't take long to realise that I was wrong. The main issue that I had with the film was that there was no substance or creation/build up of tension whatsoever mainly due to the majority of scenes glaring with natural light and also the large empty spaces and rooms that the scenes were set in which lacked decoration and scenic detail. For me, this gave the film an 'empty' feel with no depth. There were also unnecessary sub plots and characters that weren't needed, and ultimately, there was no shock value until the end. This film could have been much better if a decent amount of thought was put into the set up and placement of lighting/ shadows in order to build tension, an effective and relevant premise and a more disturbing depiction of one man's delusion and hysteria. "},{"Title":"A little disappointing.......","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After reading rave reviews and hearing a heap of promising stuff, I was expecting this to really scare the shite out of me. Unfortunately, this was another movie that got killed by hype. Granted, this is definitely one of the better recent horror movies that Hollywood have been churning out. For me, this just went WAY too slow. I'm usually OK with a slow movie, I actually prefer a movie to start slow, so it can set the scene and the characters. But this never really got anywhere. Nothing really happened until the final 20 minutes of the film. There were a few chilling moments up until then, but not enough to actually make it terrifying. But it wasn't all bad, the music was haunting, the acting was really good by everyone (especially David Caruso) and the camera-work made the hospital menacing.I really wanted to enjoy this, but for me, it was just too slow and it didn't really go anywhere interesting.2½/5. "},{"Title":"watch the movie the other way round...the end first","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A pure disappointment if you are looking for the likes of Ringu or Grudge stuff.the end was good and that was the only thing which you would like about the story. The rest is pretty much a let go off and can be watched in parts. Might be I had a lot of expectation with this movie after getting disheartened with 8 movies to die for.I would rather suggest to watch The Messengers if you really want to go for a good horror film. This film would not get in your skin.The characters are also such that one would not be able to relate to them. They are pretty much superficial. You would end up watching the entire film in the anticipation that something now is going to happen. The film is a big disappointment. "}{"Title":"A lot of wasted potential","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie could have been great; it goes by the same idea that The Shining does, but, even though I don't like The Shining, I have to say it handled the theme a lot better. I was very confused by the plot, not the basic plot, that's easy enough to follow, but the overall plot; I had trouble understanding the ending at first, but now I think I pretty much understand it. It's just not a very good ending, in fact I thought most of the last part of the movie was incredibly poorly done, and could easily have been pulled off a lot better. In the very beginning, I was somewhat impressed by the atmosphere, but in the end, it just seems like filler, until the movie reaches its final scenes. Most of the movie is just slow and boring, it barely keeps the viewer interested in the plot. In the end, it seemed like a serious attempt at a atmospheric, intelligent thriller, had been reduced to a typical slasher. There were a bunch of scenes that just had you guessing What the hell is going on? And then you find out. The twist was too obvious, and it was also pretty poorly executed. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, even die-hard thriller fans with low expectations. 5/10 "},{"Title":"What? What? What?","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rich Ferrara's Three Rules Of Horror, Mystery, And Science Fiction Movies(1) If there are 30 minutes left and you can't figure out what's going on, that's a good movie.(2) If there are 10 minutes left and you can't figure out what's going on, that's an excellent movie.(3) If it just ended and you still can't figure out what's going on, that's a really, really BAD movie.Guess which category Session 9 belongs to?Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"Can i have my money back","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What on earth was this film all about. Sadly a great setting for a horror movie was ruined by a truly insane and non sensical script... Worth renting if you want your wife to sit dumbfounded for 90 minutes at your choice of movie (i enjoyed the peace anyway) "},{"Title":"Slow paced and boring with only occasional interesting parts.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I read some of the reviews on this and thought it was worth a watch. I was mistaken. The film showed great promise at the start with the whole is there something supernatural lurking in the asylum, but sadly went wrong. Don't get me wrong, I love psychological films and I love films that you have to stop to think about to understand it, but this was pretty weak.The ending was pretty obvious from the beginning and I cannot understand how anyone thinks that Simon is a supernatural figure when clearly people suffering from D.I.D usually have an alter that is the strongest and that in their eyes, does what needs to be done. So it makes perfect sense that two people with the same mental health issue would have similar alters. The characters and their relationships all felt false and I didn't feel any empathy for any of the characters so by the end of the film, when everyone was dead, I really wasn't bothered.Altogether, not a good film and definitely not worth wasting an hour and a half on. "},{"Title":"Decent But Disappointing","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The beginning of the movie starts out okay. It's slow though for the majority of the movie. A little something here and a little something there, but overall, the first bit is rather slow. It was interesting, but it was hard to follow. I did not find it scary at all. By the time it got to the end, I wasn't really sure what was going on anymore. I would not recommend this movie to any horror movie lovers. Actually I probably wouldn't suggest it to anyone. It was a total waste of time, but the plot was just off and the movie never really drew me into it. It never really made me want to glue my eyes to the screen. First impressions are important and this movie didn't make a very good first impression. It certainly didn't make a very good last impression either. Like I said, it's not the worst horror movie ever, but it's not good either. "},{"Title":"Under average flick forcing you to over-analyze it","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm not sure how I should put this, but bottom line this movie is far from being as good as people say it is. Nothing will make you jump, which isn't a bad thing if you aren't looking for that, but nothing makes you nervous as well. Sure, you wonder what will happen next, but more because of boredom than anything else.I was in the mood for something great, and I could forgive it for not being scary/creepy at all if it delivered plot-wise. I was promised some deep plot that would make me want to read more about it, and I actually did search for explanations since the movie gave none. It FORCES you to fill up the plot holes yourself instead of making you interested and feeling engaged in it. Obviously I won't spoil anything, but basically if you're not into having multiple theories (none explaining everything), the movie won't give you anything satisfying before the last two seconds.The movie tries to be surprising, throwing things here and there without making sure it makes sense in the end. It's simply not a movie where once you get it it gets better, it's still messy no matter how you look at it.It just looks amateurish, while pretending it's not. And people pretend it's just psychological or beyond your comprehension if you tell them how the movie doesn't live up to its reputation because that makes them feel better than you.At least the bad acting in some scenes can make for a good laugh.4/10, has some what-will-happen-next moments, doesn't really feel like a waste of time, but if you have anything else to watch or are searching for a truly scary movie, avoid this one. Sadly, its reputation made it a huge disappointment for a movie that would probably deserve a 5 otherwise. "},{"Title":"Twisted minds and sick joy","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie without any prior knowledge of it, and I felt really sick after watching it. There is no interesting story line or character, and it's not catching in a puzzling way as some other good horror films do. All it sells is mystic atmosphere and bloody/violent scenes. There is a reason it lost money, it's just not interesting enough, but full of bad manipulation that sometimes failed. The only thing that's worth mentioning is it did start off like a ghost/spirit movie, but surprisingly turned into a murder case. However, that point alone does not earn it many points, because it's not entirely new in horror films. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I grabbed this one at the local rental store and was somehow thrilled by what the rear of the box promised.  Unfortunately this movie is all about trying to create an ambiance without actually using it. The characters are dull, uninteresting. Acting is substandard and the scenario is completely missing it from my point of you. Some interesting images and sound effects are the only highlights of this movie. "},{"Title":"the most boring movie ever made","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i saw this movie yesterday. i thought it was the most boring movie ever made. You did'nt see anything for most of this movie even when they did the flashback scenes at the end you did'nt see the guy killing the other guy. The Way they picture the killing where the exact same way as the way their showing the killing on FOX's murder In Small Town X. That lame. The Movie Look like it was done in three days. Finally What i did'nt Like the most about this movie is that the actors did'nt look like they knew what they were doing. Also The fact that they made it look like it took a whole week for this guy to realise that everybody was dead. their was nothing scary about this film "},{"Title":"My new standard for bad movies","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am a big fan of effective, psychological horror movies (not slasher films,) so the premise of this film intrigued me. What could be better than a creepy abandoned insane asylum coupled with the eery paraphernalia of asbestos abatement? To say I was disappointed would be an understatement. I would say without reservation that Session Nine is the worst movie I have ever seen. The only thing good about this movie is the setting. The acting is not too good, but, as others have said, it is difficult to act without material. There are a number of things which turned me off to this movie. The plot seemed to be an afterthought, and it was impossible to believe that the characters were actually performing asbestos abatement---the youngest of them is actually wearing a paper mask instead of a real respirator. I seems as if they had one respirator between them. The circuit breaker which kept blowing had to be reset by plugging something in---the extension cord? Working under intense time pressure, no one seemed to be working at all, especially the guy who spent all of his time listening to the sessions with a multiple personality case on a conveniently provided tape player. Granted, everything in a movie doesn't have to make sense in a realistic manner, but, to my mind, the best horror movies (like The Shining) are effective because of the contrast between the ordinary and the extraordinary. One needs a baseline from which to deviate. The whole movie left me with the feeling that someone saw a really cool building and said Hey, why don't we get together and make a scary movie here? I was not surprised to find out that this was actually the case. I could go on about the problems with this intensely boring, stupid, and pretentious film, but I wasted enough time watching it. This review has been written solely to warn others who may be fooled by the film's high rating here. "}{"Title":"Garbage through and through","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an exercise in armature film making with a large production budget. I don't know what was worse, the tedious plot, the bad writing, or the absolutely absurd editing.  It takes an hour before you even have a clue as to what the sub-par plot is, and you spend all your time listening to the characters explain what's going on in this crappy film because the director is incapable of showing it to you.  There is no pay-off, the characters are completely undeveloped and clichés.   This is a true piece of crap.   "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Thin story line and inadequate character development. Not thrilling nor suspenseful. Quite boring and uninteresting. I wish I hadn't selected this rental. With so many movies to choose from, I can see no reason to view this one. To be avoided, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The worst movie I have ever seen. Pls do not waste your time watching this horrible movie. There is no story, no script, no ghost, a worst cliché movie ever made. This movie has only talks and talks and talks, there is no suspense, no thrill, no enthusiasm to wait for what its going to show next. I will never get the 90 minutes of my life back after watching the worst movie ever. Its just a bunch of idiots talking and talking realizing that they just have to do waste our time talking some serious nonsense so that we can be glued to the suspense music, while there is no suspense at all. A desperate act of trying to make audience sit for 90 minutes. A 'B' grade or a 'C' grade movie is better to watch than watching this movie. "},{"Title":"OK, but nothing great","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Creepy thriller.  It has a fair amount of scary scenes (the sequence where a man is alone in the building at night--and is being followed; the sequence where a man underground realizes the lights are going out one by one--and he has a paralyzing fear of darkness; the creepy sessions on tape) and is well-directed, but the characters are all unlikable and I really didn't give a damn about any of them.  Still the movie has no gore until the end (and even then its minor--you hear the murders, don't see them) and I thought I knew exactly where the movie was going...until it did a complete about-face at the end.  So, I give it a slight recommendation...just don't expect any great horror film. "},{"Title":"Full frontal lobotomy","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Session 9 which takes us into the innersanctum of an isolated  sanatorium with a crew who is there to remove asbestos but gets  more than they bargained for. The film deserves credit for offering a good cast and crew resulting in a superficially good product. However, the screenplay, which asks more questions than it answers, distills to a clutter of busy work and peculiar happenings which aren't particularly horrific or thrilling. When all is said and done, I was left cold, yawning, and confused. Chalk this one up to just another good effort which didn't pan out. Best saved for broadcast. (C+) "},{"Title":"The funniest horror film in years.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Indie filmmakers and big-name Hollywood screenwriters have one thing in common Neither of them even tries anymore.Or, more accurately, neither of them even tries to come up with a plot. If they're making a comedy, they just use an overabundance of generic sex jokes and have some nerdy teens do predictable off-the-wall things. If they're making an action film, they form a generic main character, give him a clichéd reason to care about him, and insert some explosions between his melodramatic scenes. If they're making a horror film, they just create a generic plot line for whatever sub-genre they're trying to appease. For this review, however, let's look at psychological horror. The generic formula for psychological horror films A sole event takes place (i.e. a death, a job, a problem in school), which the mentally unstable main character is caught up in, then finds out the event had/has some sort of dark psychological back-story, then the movie comes crashing down with the main character finally realizes his true mental state. Think how many movies that describes. I can think of about 30 off the top of my head. I'm sure there is even more. And Session 9 is just another one.In reality, I could end this review with that. Session 9 is just another predictable, generic, typical, unoriginal, cliché psychological horror film. There is nothing else to review, really. If you've seen one cow, you don't need someone to describe in detail what a different cow looks like&#151;give or take trivial details, they're all exactly the same. If you have some sort of stupid desire to waste your life on viewing a carbon copy of 30 films you've already seen (which were all carbon copies of each other to begin with), then watch Session 9. If you have any intelligence at all, don't watch Session 9. There isn't any more to be said. However . . .There are even more problems here. The biggest one, second only to the unabashed unoriginality, is the sheer boredom of the film. This is mainly due to the fact you know everything that is going to happen in the opening 10 seconds. When you know what's going to happen, how can you NOT be bored? But, to add to that, the pacing is so slow it's nearly unbearable. The dialogue is unintentionally hilarious at points, but it's still some of the driest and most uninteresting dialogue I've ever heard in my life. And dialogue is over 3/4th of film.The other major problem is the stupidity of the plot in the first place. It amuses me how many writers/directors uses cliché psychological plot points, but they don't even understand them. I think they just watched Fight Club or Se7en, went in their pants out of amazement, and decided to copy those ideas and paste them into their own script. But beside that, the psychological elements are so obviously innocent it had me laughing out loud. This movie has been called thinking man's horror, and that is about the equivalent of calling the SpongeBob Halloween episode thinking man's horror. They both present about the same amount of thought-provoking ideas, morals, and clever plotting.Beyond that, Session 9 uses every horror cliché ever used, and it adds yet another layer of cheese to the plot. Generators fail right at the most tense moments&#151;who would have guessed? All the characters have some sort of generic dark past and/or disorder&#151;who would have guessed? For a movie that tries to take itself so seriously, all these Hollywood conventions suck any realism out of the film completely.Because of all these factors I just listed, Session 9 is the single most laughable horror film I've seen in years. I'm sorry, but there is nothing scary about a cheesy plot that I've literally seen hundreds of times, pumped to overflowing with absolute stupidity and cliché conventions. I call that comedy.0/10 "},{"Title":"Fell asleep","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The premise was excellent creepy abandoned mental institution, modern guys going in there on a rush job.The reality? Mind-bending tedium. If this was intended as a horror film (and I'm presuming it was), then my God they failed. Nearly two hours of my life wasted on THE most tedious, yawn-inducing rubbish I've ever had the misfortune to see. I have never been so bored while watching a film in my entire life.The Zombie re-make of Halloween - while pretty rank - at least kept me watching to the end. This was just a waste of everyone's time. I wasn't spooked for a single second.What the HELL were they thinking when they signed this utter dross off? At least the usual crop of modern slasher-dross makes you jump every now and then. This was just plain dull.By far the worst horror movie I've ever seen. Period.Dull, dull, dull, dull, dull. "},{"Title":"a very booooring so called horror film","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" so,i just watched Session 9.i have to say i was disappointed.the movie was very slow moving,boring in fact.the basic premise is thisa cleanup crew is hired to work in a former mental hospital.the catch is,the hospital has a very dark past.it seems that the ghosts of that past have not all left the hospital.now, you would think this would make for a good ghost story,but it doesn't.the whole movie is bleak and depressing,mainly dealing with the personal life of one of the main characters,which does have some relevance to the premise,but this remains mostly hidden for over a third of the film.nothing of much consequence happens in the film,until nearly the very end.i fell asleep with about 5 minutes left in the movie.however judging from what i did see,this movie is not worth watching.the acting is okay and the music is suitably eerie for the film,but that's it. 2/10 for the acting.BTW,for a similar and superior film try Boo. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry...","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay.. I was so paced to see this movie after hearing about it on here I went out and rented it right away.I'm sorry.. but it was one of the worst films I've ever seen. Acting was horrible, and nothing about it made me cringe, shutter, or want to jump in the least. Shouldn't be called a horror flick went here is nothing horrifying about it.I don't see how it could be a psychological movie either... nothing confused me, nothing made me go 'wow, i didn't see that coming'.awful!terrible "},{"Title":"This movie was awful!  Stay away from this one!  Viewers beware!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I actually rented this movie because of some lady's good recommendation of it here on IMDb.com. It saddens me to see that people's taste in movies today is as low as taste in music today. The movie made absolutely no sense at all, what the heck was up with Josh Lucas constantly babbling, What are you doing here? What are you doing here? The movie made no sense at all, it seemed as if they thought they could save the movie by putting in a token Scot. It was one of those movies which, to me, was just faux scary--it tried to be scary and failed miserably. Folks, I'm just trying to save you here, I rented this thing off the 2 for $1 rack at Family Video, don't watch this DVD if someone owns it and LOANS it to you for free!! Two thumbs way down!! "}]