[{"Title":"Pure gold!!!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"83 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you're the type of movie goer who gets uptight hearing countless F Bombs and explicit sexual discussion, then please move along and let others get in line to see one of the Funniest movies I have seen in my recent memory.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a movie that has so much going on, that one screening is not enough for me to all that was thrown at me in 90 plus minutes.Writer/Director/Co-Star, Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) has without a doubt created if not his best movie, then it would have to be his funniest.  A fitting conclusion to his New Jersey Trilogy (that now consists of five films instead of the originally planned three) forgoes the serious religious overtones of Dogma and the Sexuality issues brought forth in Chasing Amy to go for pure Laughs...............and it succeeds.The film's main plot revolves around the familiar duo of Jay (Jason Mewes) and his Heterosexual Life mate Silent Bob and their attempts to thwart a movie based on a comic book about Jay and Bob.  It's essentially a road picture as the guys make their way from Leonardo, New Jersey to Hollywood. Along the way they meet international Jewel Thieves, Steal a Monkey,  Meet The Scooby Doo gang,  Try and Beat up Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, and much more.As Silly as all this sounds it's done in such a way that's smart, witty, and still has a touch of class about it.  And that's pretty hard to do considering I can't even tell you some of the content of the movie without being censored heavily.If you are at all familiar with Smith's movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma) you will get a kick out of the countless cameos and connections to his other films.  For Example, Jason Lee reprises two roles (one from Mallrats and one from Chasing Amy) as does Ben Affleck.  Matt Damon appears as himself playing Will Hunting in a fictitious sequel to Good Will Hunting entitled `Good Will Hunting II Hunting Season. There are two highlights of this movie that I need to talk about.  First Being Jason Mewes as Jay.  This guy is for real, by far and away he has put in the best performance of all his five film appearances  as Jay  He carries the picture and is side splittingly funny.  It is my hope that he can now get other roles in movies besides the loveable Dope smoking Jay. Secondly I want to address Kevin Smith's Directing.  To all the people who say Smith can't direct need to see Jay and Silent Bob. His use of motion should silence everyone who claims there are no moving shots in a Smith film!!!  It's almost become fashionable to blast Smiths direction because that's the Thing to do. With all the great action and movement in Jay and Silent Bob'  Smith can finally shrug off all the criticisms of the past.What can I say to sum up? It's a brilliant movie for everyone, not just Smith fans. You will laugh and laugh some more. Do yourself a favour and go see it as soon as you can!  "},{"Title":"snoogans!!!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"70 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ''f*ck,f*ck,f*ck'' when these words are said by a two year old version of Jay before the film switches to present day Jay doing his rap(''drinkin beers beers beers,rollin fatties,etc)the tone of the film is firmly set.But did you expect anything else?The heroes of Kevin Smiths Jersey film series finally get the screen time,and sadly the send off,they deserve.This film is JOKES from start to finish,the dialogue is funny and in places very rude, especially from Jay.|The cast is full of brilliantly chosen cameos,featuring many people having a tongue in cheek pop at themselves.The Good Will Hunting 2Hunting season section shows Ben affleck and Matt Damon can laugh at themselves,which in a film like this they would need to!Jason Mewes is on top form as is Kevin Smith,especially when Bob is finally driven to an uncharacteristic outburst of more than a few words.BOUT TIME!!!The continuity of this in relation to the previous Jay and Silent Bob outings is superb,and although it is a funnier film if you have seen Kevin Smiths other Jersey films,there are still plenty of jokes for the uninitiated.This is mostly down to a fantastic supporting cast of some great comedic performers.Will Ferrells WildLife Marshall is funny as f*ck as Jay would say!The movie is not just full of jokes at previous Jersey films expense,but it takes a few good shots at other films and even the film industry itself...could Movie Poopshoot.com be a reference to IMDb.com?who knows?.The 2 disc DVD is WELL worth getting if you like the movie,the outtakes are worth the money alone.And one particular extra ''Ham Affleck'' is worth checking,with Ben showing his real cheese skills(which he would perfected in Pearl Harbour,only that time he was trying to be serious).Also the introductions to the many deleted scenes are worth watching,with Affleck again taking some lighthearted ripping from Mewes and Smith.LOL.Rude,fun poking,loud and very very funny.....just like Jay.9/10 "},{"Title":"CU Film Critic takes on Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"66 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whether or not you enjoy `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is going to depend a lot on whether or not you enjoy director Kevin Smith. I, for one, think the guy is a genius.  If you don't mind my lauding his name, read on. First, a little background for the uninitiated.Kevin Smith's movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma, and now JSBSB) are a world created by the director himself, in the sense that all are interconnected by characters, plot points, and subtle references. The one constant, though, is the entity known as Jay and Silent Bob, a pair of pot dealers who have more or less spent their entire lives standing in front of the Quik-Stop convenience store.  Jay (Jason Mewes) is the long-haired guy we all knew in high school, his endless stream of four-letter epithets almost endearing because the goofy guy just doesn't know any better.  Silent Bob (played by director Kevin Smith), Jay's self-described `hetero life-mate' stands by without speaking a word and provides some sort of moral counterpoint for the duo. In Smith's `Chasing Amy,' Banky and Holden (Jason Lee and Ben Affleck, respectively) created a comic book entitled `Bluntman and Chronic,' based on their real-life buddies Jay and Silent Bob.  Fast-forward to `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.'Banky has sold the rights to his comic to Miramax pictures, leaving Jay and Silent Bob in the dark about the business deal.  Jay and Bob, with help from Holden, discover via the Internet (`What's the Internet?' asks Jay) that a movie based on them is about to start production. Realizing that they won't see a dime of the money, and even more upset by their defamation on Internet message boards, they decide to truck across the country to stop the film from being produced.It's important to note that while the comedy is crude, slapstick, and even resorts to fart jokes, it's not dumb comedy, it's satire at it's finest, reminiscent of such self-deprecating masterpieces as `Pee-Wee's Big Adventure' and `Blazing Saddles.' After the fairly serious `Chasing Amy' and the spiritually overtoned `Dogma,' we see that Smith has decided to get together with his buddies and put together one big inside joke. Fortunately, he's decided to let a few of us in on it.  The viewer's enjoyment of the movie is going to depend completely on his or her knowledge of Smith's previous films and characters. Smith's friends show up in cameos, from Chris Rock to Will Ferrell to Alanis Morrissette to Carrie Fisher to Mark Hamill (Smith is an infamous Star Wars fanatic). You can literally see a man's childhood dream coming true when at one point, Smith's Bob gets to carry on a lightsaber duel with Hamill.Local interest In one of the many subplots, a group of female jewel thieves bring Jay and Silent Bob to our very own Boulder, Colorado, to steal a monkey from a medical testing facility. `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is a comedy, and doesn't try to be anything else.  The only thing I felt was missing was one of Jason Lee's  inspired monologues bitterly bemoaning the state of society.  Some of Shannon Elizabeth's screen time could have been cut, I felt, in favor of some trademark Smith dialogue.Smith now intends to focus his time on more dramatic pursuits, and we are given this as the fifth and last film in his so-called `Jersey Trilogy.' The bottom line is, Smith loves his fans, and this film was created for the loyal.  A fitting send-off for Jay and Silent Bob, this film gets an `A-.'  "},{"Title":"The funniest film of the year!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"67 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Writer/director/co-star Kevin Smith bids farewell to the Jay and Silent Bob characters in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, the first of the five movies featuring them in which they are the stars. He couldn't have come up with a better send-off for them. True, there's no big ideas behind this film like there were in Dogma or Chasing Amy, but really, the grand ideas in those movies came from the main characters, not Jay and Silent Bob. They were there for comic relief mainly. Therefore, it makes sense that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back would be pure slapstick comedy. Think about it, do you really want a foul-mouthed, over-sexed stoner telling you how to live your life?So anyway, it's a pure slapstick humor road movie. But unlike most slapstick comedies of late, this one's actually funny...extremely funny. Jay and Silent Bob find out that a movie is being made from a comic book (Bluntman & Chronic) that was based on them. They set off for Hollywood intending to stop it. Kevin Smith manages to pack so many jokes into what could have been another predictable, boring road comedy, that it's head and shoulders above the competition. I'm gonna have to go see it again, to make sure I didn't miss any jokes. Smith once again is showing off his incredible writing skills. Some people may not believe that any movie full of crude, R-rated humor is well written, but it is. Not only is it incredibly funny, but there's an intelligence and wit behind it that is unmistakably Kevin Smith's.I was also pleased with the quality of acting in the movie, especially Jason Mewes (Jay). In past View Askew movies, Mewes has been funny, despite not doing a particularly good job of acting. The one thing I was worried about was whether or not he'd be able to carry a film mostly by himself (since Silent Bob is mostly, well, silent). But he definitely proved that he has grown enough as an actor to be able to head up a movie. Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) does his usual decent job. Since he doesn't say much, mainly just reacts, he can't to a great job, but he's still very funny. He's the perfect companion (or should I say, hetero life mate for Jay, who's the complete opposite. There are no real other big parts in the movie, but there are tons of little cameos. Really, I think it'd be easier to list the people who DON'T appear in it. Some of the highlights include a scene with Ben Affleck and Matt Damon playing themselves, on the set of Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season, a scene with Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek, as themselves, playing the stars of the Bluntman and Chronic movie, and a scene with Mark Hamill parodying Star Wars. But really, almost all of the jokes are highlights.For people who have seen the other films in Smith's New Jersey Chronicles series (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, & Dogma), there are quite a few in-jokes that you will find hilarious. In addition to playing himself, Affleck also reprises his role as Holden from Chasing Amy, Jason Lee reprises his roles from Chasing Amy and Mallrats, and Jeff Anderson and Brian O'Halloran reprise their Clerks roles. Many others from the View Askewniverse appear as well. However, this movie is not only for fanboys. I saw it with a friend who hadn't seen any of the other four movies, and he thought it was hilarious too. The majority of the jokes will be understood by anyone. The in-jokes are like a little bonus from Smith to his fans, but they are not the focus of the movie.Kevin Smith also does a good job directing. Lately, it seems to have become popular to attack Smith's directing ability, but I think he did a good job. In his earlier movies, his directing was simply decent, not good, not bad. But he has made a lot of progress. This is one of the better directed comedies I've seen. Not Academy Award stuff, but most other comedy directors are pretty boring it seems.I want to briefly comment on the GLAAD protests of the film, citing large amounts of homophobia. I am gay, and I didn't find the film offensive. I think a lot of people are just taking the film way to seriously. It's not a serious film. People forget that Jay is, basically, a moron, so you can exactly take everything he says as the truth. Smith has said it's supposed to be a satire, and it works. Especially considering that in past films, Jay has admitted to sometimes fantasizing about guys. It's a satire, lighten up people. There's actually a funny scene where James Van Der Beek chastises Jason Biggs for calling something gay, and also there's a funny disclaimer at the end.Which reminds me, stay for the credits. There's plenty of funny stuff, and Alanis Morissette shows up at the very end. All in all, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is an extremely funny movie, plain and simple. Just don't take it seriously, because again, it's not a serious movie. There's still a few months to go, but I think this will prove to be the funniest movie of the year...actually, of the last many years. Quit reading this and go see it!Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"An awesome end to Smith's Jersey series...","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"49 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I say this because it is the only movie I have ever laughed out loud at in a theater. I know a lot of people complain because the movie is toilet humor, vulgar language, and sex jokes. But so what? Kevin Smith took on serious topics before, this is his chance to kick back. If you go into this movie expecting to be enlightened, then there is something seriously wrong with you.In the film, Jay and Silent Bob discover that Miramax will be making a movie based on Bluntman & Chronic, the comic based on themselves. Soon after discovering the insults people are slinging about the movie on the internet, Jay and Silent Bob head to Hollywood to shut the movie down and protect their good names. This movie ties together all of Smith's other Jersey crew films, with appearances by characters from Clerks through Chasing Amy.While it is true that you won't get all the jokes unless you've seen Smith's other movies, that won't stop a person from enjoying it if they haven't. When I first saw Jay & Silent Bob Strikes Back in theaters, I had only seen Dogma beforehand and I thought it was hilarious. Everyone in this movie puts on an awesome comedic performance, though I think my favorite comes from Will Ferrell as an inept wildlife marshal. If you don't mind some distasteful humor, you've got to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Smith scores despite a different audience focus.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith proved with J.S.B.S.B. that he is no longer just a glorified independent film maker.  In past films, Kevin Smith seemed to have a limited appeal, mostly among arm-chair directors (such as myself)who had become jaded with the Hollywood film industry, but with his slap-stick-like middle finger to the movie industry he seems to have branched out and struck a note with the MTV audience (10 to 16 year olds).  Smith's grade-school humor, delivered mostly by Jay, is nothing new to previous movies, but with  the focus on Jay & Silent Bob this humor became more evident AND more inviting to a younger audience.Nonetheless, Smith has not alienated his core audience who are, ...over and underweight guys who can't get laid. (See Holden McNeil in Chasing Amy). The simple visual affects, as in his past movies, are FAR  overshadowed by the fantastic dialogue he writes which has Hollywood stars chomping at the bit to deliver.  If anything, the only disappointment was a  very thin plot (OK, Mallrats Had a plot, no one ever said it was a good one).  But as he did in Mallrats, for what J.S.B.S.B. is lacking in plot, Smith sure as hell made up for it in laughs.This movie junkie gives Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back a 9 out of 10.. .let's just hope what Chris Rock says in the movie doesn't come true.  See the movie and you'll get what I mean. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back 7/10","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the record, I have not seen Kevin Smith's previous works, Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma, which, I'm almost positive, affected how I saw the movie, since Smith puts in so many in-jokes and references to his previous movies, I didn't get them, except for the blatantly obvious ones.Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) hang out in front of a convience store selling weed. When the get a restraining order, they find out that the comic starring their likenesses Bluntman and Chronic is being turned into a Miramax movie. However, they aren't being paid for it, so what to do? Travel cross-country to Hollywood from New Jersey to stop the movie from getting made, what else?Crude, inappropriate, and extremely funny. If there's ever a movie that you should watch with your drinking friends and not with a date or family, this is the one! It has jokes about genetalia, bodily functions, innuendoes, and more, and I haven't laughed this hard at a movie for a long time. Call me immature, but I like this type of stuff, ones that actually have substance behind the crude jokes (not like Old School).Mewes was f-ing hilarious, when he f-ing say the f-ing f-word every f-ing word. It has over 230 f-words along in this movie, with the total number of curses probably around 300. I have never heard so many, but I laughed. I'm not ashamed to admit it Mewes cracked me up, with his stylish arrogance and foul mouth. Smith, who was laconic for almost the entire film, expressed everything with his eyes, which were funny. There were more cameos than a movie of The Simpsons, with Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, George Carlin, Jamie Kennedy, Chris Rock, Tracy Morgan, Joey Lauren Adams, and many, many more.There were many pot-shots of American movies. For instance, when Jay and Silent Bob meet a drug dealer played by Tracy Morgan, he says that Miramax accounts for about 75% of his income. Also, everyone on-screen looks at the camera when they mention, `No one would pay to see a Jay and Silent Bob movie,' and when Ben Affleck says that one reason you do a picture is because you owe a friend a favor. As the Bluntman and Chronic movies premieres, someone says, `Well, it was better than Mallrats.'Are you easily offended? Does the mention of various body parts upset you? If you answered yes to either question, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is not your movie. If you answered no, sit back and enjoy the ride!My rating 7/10Rated R for nonstop crude and sexual humor, pervasive strong language, and drug content. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith delivers the goods in a great finale","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"37 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith's previous movies always seemed to be something of a mixed bag. Whether ambitious thematically, (Dogma, Chasing Amy), or outright comedy, (Mallrats), the movies as a whole were less satisfactory than their many very funny parts. The sporadic appearances of the second string character duo of Jay and Silent Bob were always a welcome event.The big question was whether this 2001 styled Laurel and Hardy, when promoted to center stage, could carry a movie. The answer much to my surprise was a resounding yes. Smith outdoes himself, producing an exceptional comedy. It's consistently inventive, with surprises, in jokes and many cameos from Smith regulars, all who seem to be genuinely having a ball. Never has irreverence and bad language been done with so much charm.Those who disliked Smith's previous works would do well to stay away, they are unlikely to be converted. But for fans, Smith really does deliver the goods, in a big way.I was totally baffled by reading that certain gay groups took offence to this movie. It would seem to me a total misreading as well as a great deficiency in the humor department. Apart from the fact that Smith lampoons all and sundry, it actually struck me as a particularly gay friendly movie. The fact that a gay character sums the movie up as one big gay joke should be taken as a compliment more than anything else.It's clear that this brings Smith's cycle to a close. He couldn't have wished for a better ending. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Go Out With a Whimper","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen every Kevin Smith film but MALLRATS, I went in to J & SB SB with fairly high expectations.  Coming out of the theatre last night, I was very disappointed with what I had just seen.  Some of the gags and spoofs worked, but there were more hits than misses.  This movie is especially weak considering that it followed CHASING AMY and DOGMA--2 of the best (and funniest) American films of the past five years.If this flick was something that Kevin Smith just had to get out of his system, then I'm willing to forgive him.  I think he's got a lot more to offer than fart and stoner jokes.  There's little proof of that in this film, though.  If you're a Smith fan, you can wait for this movie to hit the discount theatres (or video).  If you haven't seen any previous KS films, by all means skip J & SB SB.  I couldn't imagine a worse intro to the Jersey trilogy.Rating  5/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed; just not funny","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big Kevin Smith fan but this movie is just not funny. It saddens me if people think this type of stuff passes off as comedy.We've really lowered our standards. For the ammount of talent this director/writer has to work with he can come up with a lot better -- I know I can. Nowadays it seems like if you have 2-3 funny scenes you can wrap a movie around it. What we have here is maybe two with a whole lot of riffing by Jay which to me has become pointess and boring since Mallrats. Maybe I'm just getting older but swearing, gay jokes and farting just kind of get old after 3-4 films, you know? At least the series is finally over and we'll see if Smith has any talent or not. Judging from this fluff I have extreme doubt.What ever happened to the clever sharp dialogue? That's all his film's had before. None of them (sans Chasing Amy) had any plot but were full of juicy monologues and one-liners, not to mention plenty of satire and on-target observations of our society. But that's been slowly receding and I think Kevin Smith fans have got to be brainwashed here now because this is NOT a good movie. I loved his first 3 movies and I know the universe of the characters and I found all the references to his other films, fans, critics, the interent to all be very lazy and poorly handled. I feel cheated by the one guy who I thought wouldn't sell out but he did it a long time ago...* (one star)Not worth your money... "}{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"32 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I was first asked by a friend to watch this DVD with her my initial reaction was that it's not for me. Stoner humour is not my normal genre, cheech and chong bored me, as did many other films based around the same sort of thing. When she told me that it was the two goof balls out of Dogma I was even more concerned that I was about to give two hours of my life to trash.What a change! Kevin Smith has worked a wonder on this film, the quick (if a little predictable) one liners, the skill of the cast, alongside the non stop comedy coming from cameos, often playing parodies of themselves makes it worth buying a copy. The only thing that lets the movie down is it's art school look; in places it can look like Smith happens to have some high powered friends that helped to promote this movie and make it the success it was. If you want a light hearted film to watch over and over again, picking up the more subtle gags then it's one for you.Hope this helps. PG "},{"Title":"Sullies the name of puerile trash","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I've liked the majority of Kevin Smith's films and greatly enjoyed Dogma, Jay and Silent Bob is just an excuse for him to engage in cinematic onanism for an hour and a half. Utter tripe, crap, and indulgent. This is the man who wrote Clerks, Mallrats and Dogma? I guess he must have stitched together the lamest bits that didn't make it into those films to creat 9and I use that term loosely) this one.I know there are Smithophiles who read every comic book he writes and love everything he does, and they will like this film. And Smith has done some excellent work in his career; just not here. He's said many times that this will be the last Jay and Silent Bob film; while I've liked them until now, after seeing this indulgent pile of crap, I'm not sorry that's  "},{"Title":"This one is for complete morons who are proud of their status.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one is for complete morons who are proud of their status. I LOL'd only two times. This film was an in-your-face-we-don't-care-about-you-and-you're-too-dumb-to-realize-it. There was an atmosphere of high school elitism We don't care about anyone but ourselves because we think we're funny and we're great. It was so egocentric and totally lazy. I saw little creativity and many stupid, stupid jokes. However, Ben and Matt should be commended for their ability to laugh at themselves. They and James VDB were funny. As for the film as a whole, it was a crashing bore for retards and geeks. One of the few films I have ever seen that truly fits the AWFUL category. Note that in the word awful are the two letters of F and U. Rated it 1. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob waste my $8","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film will hold a special place in the hearts of all Kevin Smith fans.  It is nothing more than his very own greatest hits reel.  Now I kind of dig the man myself, liked a few of his films-hated a few more, but I entered the theatre as more of a impartial film fan rather than Kevin Smith nut.  Keep that in mind as I say these words Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the most horrible pieces of nonsense ever put to film.  It was so bad I expected Pauly Shore to have a few lines.  The titular characters are really not interesting enough to carry an entire movie, especially seeing that one is silent.  After 90 minutes the voice of Jay was an inch away from giving me a seizure.  Crude and stupid, in all of the bad ways, this film puts a black mark next to the name of a filmmaker who really isn't all that talented in the first place.  Luckily these characters are being retired, hopefully a forced change of scenery will force Smith into making a film that isn't horrible.   "},{"Title":"The worst and least funny movie I have ever seen.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not funny.  It is silly and stupid in the most boring sense. I sat in a movie theatre and heard no laughs, and watched a number of people leave midway. What has come over you who voted and gave it an 8?  I noticed that the vast majority of those voting are males 18-30.  Has our gender deteriorated so much that we consider this kind of drivel to be entertaining? "},{"Title":"Total Garbage","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I used to think Kevin Smith was a good director. He made two great comedy/dramas-Clerks and Chasing Amy-that I admired very much. His latest film, however, is the work of a sell out and an insult to the intelligence of moviegoers everywhere. It seems that the main impetus for the film being made was Kevin Smith's fragile ego not being able to take criticism over the internet. In place of the wit and insight of Smith's best films, this movie has phony hollywood stars trying to be self-deprecating, mindless profanity, and ridiculous situations that make no sense. Even Chris Rock isn't funny in this movie. Please don't waste your time on this awful disgrace to celluloid. "},{"Title":"more money=less effort","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Horrible flick. Kevin Smith please stop believing your own hype and make a clever film like Clerks again. Are you purposely trying to cater to the American Pie crowd. I saw Kevin Smith in San Diego at the ComicCon last year and liked what he had to say....too bad that kind of wit didn't make it into this movie. "},{"Title":"A relentless barrage of in-jokes and idiocy","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's almost impossible to believe that this film is from the self same Kevin Smith who wrote and directed Clerks. Gone is the biting wit and odd charm of that film, and in its place, big-budget pointlessness and a dozen more dick jokes. The many cameo appearances of characters from the other movies which comprise the extended 'New Jersey Trilogy' (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and the woeful Dogma) serve only to remind the viewer just how good - or even average - Smith used to be. Indeed, whatever it was that made his work so individual and enjoyable was clearly lost some time ago.Directorially, the 'post-modern' elements (several actors playing dual roles) are fairly well-handled, though presumably quite confusing for those who haven't seen earlier entries in the series. Unfortunately, however, Smith's usual lack of visual awareness and style is once more in evidence. In Clerks it didn't matter the script was so tight that the primitive direction was irrelevant, but here, with hardly any gags hitting the mark (special mention for Mark Hamill's spectacularly unfunny cameo) it's extremely noticeable.The acting too, is of a poor standard with too many lines and jokes fluffed, though Jason Mewes' usual one-note performance (essentially playing a toned-down version of himself, by all accounts) works well here. All in all, more puerile and less funny than its predecessors, though foul-mouthed children, stoners and idiots may take to it more than most. "},{"Title":"Hollywood had it coming? They still do.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having enjoyed Clerks and most of Chasing Amy and Dogma this is an incredibly inept flick. Which got tiresome quicker? The flatulence and oral sex jokes or the acting of director Smith? The shrugs, eyerolls, the hand gestures. Ugh. Also, how many times do you have to say the f-word? And how many times do you have to mention what a slimepit Miramax is? It must be pretty bad because they're responsible for bringing this to a theater near me. In that vein, how does Smith expect his mostly college-aged audience to react to repeated references to Miramax? Ooh this film was made by Miramax, it MUST be... Who goes to a movie based on the studio or production company? For a movie that supposedly rails against Hollywood (see tagline) this is an incredible supposition. This is about as anti-studio as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. This film also proves that any movie which relies on a steady stream of walk-ons (unless it is directed by Robert Altman) is doomed to failure.Mr. Smith, if you emulate your characters and read the postings of know-it-alls on the Internet, next time try to make a movie not so reliant on references to other movies--especially your own. Get an original idea! I'll be happy to help!    "},{"Title":"Why Kevin Smith?","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If anyone has to refuse people to be allowed in to see one of his junior high movies then, something is wrong. This guy actually sends people out into the audience and picks who can stay and demands others to leave before the movie roles. Why? Could Kevin Smith be anymore of a cry baby? Well? I will use his movies in teaching film school students as what NOT to do. Watch the editing. Really, really watch it. It goes like this. Actor 1 says a line. Actor 2 says a line. Actor 1 says a line Actor 2 says a line and so on. You see poor, poor Kevin Smith never learned how to edit. Even, in that famous story about how he had an argument with Ben Affleck, Chasing Amy about the line,  What do you use for foreplay? A baseball bat? Kevin demanded that Ben not say that again. In editing you can see the edit jump and the sound stop at Ben Affleck saying the line, wha* Why? Because Kevin will take his ball and go home. "}{"Title":"Subpar Smith","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It pains me to say it, but this is the only Kevin Smith film I didn't like. I even loved Mallrats, which was heavily criticized. The movie started off on a pretty good note, the Scooby sequence ranks with the best Smith moments, but that's exactly what this movie is an all around crappy film with some good, even memorable scenes injected every now and then.I think the main reason this movie failed was that it was EXTREMELY pretentious. I've never met Smith and I've only seen a few interviews. I love the guy as a filmmaker and NO ONE loves Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy or Dogma more than me. I connected with those four films big time. But with THIS film, it's as if the fame has gone to View Askew's head. There's a sort of we're so cool feel to a lot of the characters, but none more so than Silent Bob. When SB started shouting in Jay's face, I cringed and sank in my seat because it was SUPPOSED to be funny and it was supposed to make us think, Wow, Silent Bob is not only talking, but he's also shouting. But instead, I just thought to myself, Oh, come ON! I'm no mindreader, but I definitely sensed that the film was done with an underlying, albeit probably unintentional arrogance about it.I heard this was going to be the last of the Jay & Silent Bob series. I was bummed about that until I saw this. This fragmented film, although it's supposed to be silly, proves that the Jay & Silent Bob series was running on fumes. It was as if Smith ran out of things to do or say. Mind you, I'm not saying it should've had a serious message. There wasn't a really dramatic message in Mallrats, yet I loved it. Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is not a total crap film, but it's definitely the one and only View Askew film I was really disappointed with, and I think the film's pretentiousness has a lot to do with why it failed. "},{"Title":"crap on steroids","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Kevin Smiths older work,namely Clerks and Mallrats. Chasing Amy to a lesser extent and I was disappointed with Dogma. Completely stunned would be close to how I felt sitting through this trash. Following the 'Wayans Pattern' of once putting great stuff out then quickly decomposing to trash is what I would say about Smiths stuff thus far. I can't believe a writer with his talent degraded to 'drooling idiot fanbase' level. His previous movies always had insight combined with wit and fantastic dialogue. This 'thing' had none of that. The fact that he even stooped to the 'white guy' jokes with that racist idiot Chris Rock,was a major disappointment. I'm not sure what I regret more,wasting that hour and a half of my life,or spent the money to go on the weekend when it was most expensive. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Not even good on drugs.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie has its moments, but it's just a hodge podge of sometimes clever (sometimes not) walk-on cameos, a road trip (which is a poor screen writing trick to fill a weak plot with 30-40 minutes of loose gags), silly subplots and weak ha-ha gags breaking the fourth wall.Half the movie is an insult to people who can best be described as The Comic Book Guy from The Simpsons (myself included).  Half of the Joke is ripping on his own fanbase, and any average person who critiques him negatively over the net.  This cheazy ploy went out with low-brow comics ripping on Siskel and Ebert (real critics), but now it's like the Slapshot scene where they go into the audience and beat-up their fans.Except Slap Shot was funny.Maybe I'm old (I'm Kevin Smith's Age).  But F just isn't funny anymore   Be clever.  Why was Scooby Doo in the movie? It was a waste of 10 minutes that did nothing to the plot.  Couldn't he tie that in somehow humously at the end like, those kids show up to expose the jewel theifs, who end up being 3 cranky old men who woulda gotten away with it.  And the love interest... we won't even get into that believability.Anyhow.  Kevin, if you ever wanna come over and beat me up, drop me a note and I'll give ya my address. "},{"Title":"Did this get a 7.8 or a 1.8 ?!?!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always trusted imdb movie scores, and a 7.8 was always a movie at least worth watching... But what is this Jay and Silent Bob stuff? It is really a disgrace even to slapstick comedy! Unless you yourself are a brainless idiot really don't waste your time!0/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's magnum opus ode to himself","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"30 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whatever went wrong with Kevin Smith's 1995 film Mallrats has been fixed in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Now in 2001, Kevin Smith devotes ninety-five minutes of film to himself. Any negative reviews you may read are surely written by critics who weren't big fans of Smith's previous efforts (especially Mallrats). J&SBSB is a movie for the View Askew fans. The film contains many references to Clerks (1994), Mallrats (1995), Chasing Amy (1997), and Dogma (1999) as well as the Clerks comic books and the Jay and Silent Bob comic book, Chasing Dogma, that bridges the gap between Chasing Amy and Dogma (actually, a great deal of the film's road trip comes directly from this book).J&SBSB (the fifth film in the New Jersey Trilogy, much like The Hitchhiker's Guide five-part trilogy) is filled to the brim with crude humor that usually turns off most movie critics, but it's crude humor with Kevin Smith's familiar wit. It's written for Jason Mewes to really shine in his performance (I never thought I'd say that).The major part of this film that stood out for me is the craft. The craft?! What the hell could I be talking about? As many know, Kevin Smith's movies are notorious for having almost zero camera moves. This is Kevin Smith's most technically superior film (probably because it's his highest budget). There are camera moves and excellent camera angles. In Smith's last film, Dogma, as well as this one, he utilizes the 2.351 aspect ratio. Why in the world he feels that he needs to use such scope in these films is beyond me.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is not a real movie. Chasing Amy is the closest Smith has come to that. For the View Askew/Kevin Smith fans, this is his best film. It will certainly be interesting to see what kind of movies Smith decides to make now that his New Jersey Trilogy has come to a close and he doesn't have the familiar characters to fall back on. "},{"Title":"It was OK...","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that like most people here, I am a Kevin Smith fan.  I thought clerks and chasing amy were great movies from a brilliant director.  Superb acting, great jokes, and great characters.Unfortunately, his newest movie, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, has none of those things.  First of all, let me point out that these characters are not the same Jay and Silent Bob many of you will remember from Clerks.  They were annoying, drug-dealing losers who played a small role in the movie.  Somewhere along the way, however, they became lovable goons that are the center of a movie.  I'm not sure these characters are well developed enough to be the main characters.Anyways, on to the movie.  This movie starts out SLLLOOOOWWWWW...It was too bad that they bring back lots of great characters like Randall, Dante, and Brody, but only for quick cameo shots.  None of them offer anything to this movie.  It takes a while, but finally the jokes start rolling.  Sadly, Kevin Smith kind of gave in to the American Pie movie style, which is just making lewd comments and sexual jokes.  There is no intelligent, insightful dialogue, as you are used to from his other movies.I think that the one bright spot of the movie was Chris Rock's character.  He displays the charm and wittiness that you have come to know from characters like Banky, Randall, Hooper X, etc.Overall, i would give this movie 4 stars out of 10.  There are some funny spots, but they do not really start until about halfway through the movie. "},{"Title":"Am I missing something ???? - Spoilers ahead","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I heard there was going to be a new Kevin Smith movie I was excited.When I saw the ratings (7,7) on this page I couldn't wait to see it.When I read the cast I even became ecstatic.Now I'm just disturbed and disappointed.Could anyone please explain to me how  this movie could get such a high rating??`Jay and Silent Bob strike back' is a mess, a failed attempt to have what should be nice additions to a movie carry a whole movie on their shoulders.Kevin Smith is surely the worst actor of all time. His acting is a series of silly gesture and mimic expression that remind me of a Disney movie. I liked Jay and Silent Bob in all of Smith's movies, because they were  so different from any other character. Most importantly Smith didn't overdo it, they only appeared for a few minutes. This time, Kevin Smith tries to build a whole movie around them, and it just doesn't work. Silent Bob's refusal to speak is hilarious if his appearance is limited, but having to see a lead role make an idiot out of himself makes you mad. At the end I really wanted to smack this guy up. Jason Mewes is way better, but his character is also too shallow for a lead role. The other known characters only give cameo appearances of about 30 seconds to two minutes. I had really looked forward to seeing Hooper, Alyssa and especially Dante and Randal again, so seeing them limited to a scene or two was a big disappointment.But what really sucked the most about this movie was that there was absolutely no intelligence in the dialogues. Dogma was at least intelligent, but it was boring. This movie is a series of dumb events tied together by obscenities, yes I know, there's been a lot of them in Smith's previous movies (particularly in `Clerks'), but there was always an intelligent story that justified them. `Jay and Silent Bob strike back' has no story at all, at least nothing you should call a story. In fact, this `story' is so bad, I assume he had an 8-year-old write it for him. As a replacement for a proper story he comes up with many references to other movies (`Planet of the Apes' being the best of them), but they are just nice, I expect a lot more from Smith. So after I've seen this movie I have to say that Kevin Smith is clearly on the way down. I loved all his movies until Dogma, but it seems as if he's lost all of his creativity since he got more money. The bigger the budget the worse the movie.After all that bashing I have to admit that there were a few bright spots even in this flick 1)Shannon Elizabeth is simply gorgeous, even with glasses ... 1 point2)Eliza Dushku is just ...wow ... 1 point3)Jeff Anderson is fantastic (why didn't he get more than 2 minutes ???) ... 1 point4)The orang-utan is cute ... 1 point5)At least it's not as boring as Dogma ... 1 pointUnfortunately that's about it.Dear reader, if you want to see Kevin Smith's best movie, go and get `Clerks', if you don't like independent movies, get `Chasing Amy', but please stay away from this one. I only recommend this if you get to see it for free (just so you can witness a pure genius hit rock bottom).Please don't waste any money on it.5/10  "},{"Title":"After watching this last night, it is not that good","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So here I am looking at a comedy that I liked when I was 13 and 14. I watched this movie all the time back then. So does it hold up after 4 years? In my eyes it doesn't.Don't get me wrong it is funny... in places. The leading characters are a big problem, why? they work as side characters for the movies but in here... It doesn't work. Jay has potential to be a funny side character but not as a lead. He is on the verge of irritating as he chews the scenery of this movie. I did laugh at a few jokes, don't get me wrong but for every 1 joke that works there are about 5 more that fall flat. When a joke falls flat in this movie it falls REALLY FLAT.Not to mention they overuse the F word. I know, I might come across as an idiot for complaining about bad language in a Kevin Smith movie and it might be as stupid as complaining about the use of Amber in a Guillermo Del Toro film. But it is used in EVERY SINGLE SENTENCE. This might entertain a 14 year old for an hour and a half but not to a 17 year old looking for something more.Not to mention the plot is just awful. I get what Smith was trying to do with this movie. Basically a stupid comedy with a ridiculous premise. First of all the premise is sort of a boo-hoo situation (trying to stop a movie because of haters? Really?). Not to mention that It almost is like he ran out of material and crammed in subplots and love relationships that are more forced than Hayden Christensen's and Natalie Portman's in the Star Wars prequels. The plots are just NOT FUNNY.So will I give Kevin Smith films a re-watch? Yes. I considered this man to be my favourite comedy director when I was 13 and want to see out of curiosity if any of his other films hold up. One of my biggest problems with this movie is the fact that the focus of the film should be supporting characters and doing that might actually work if you change it to a character that can entertain people who AREN'T fourteen years old. "},{"Title":"Just so long as they don't return","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *Yawn* is it over yet? Oh, you caught me napping during the movie.Oh well.I didn't even see this movie all the way through.Between Jay's (Jason Mewes) profanity laced terrible acting and Bob's (Kevin Smith) um... silence, this was not the movie for me.The movie was just two hopelessly dumb friends looking for women and weed.I'm not above the lame and pointless script for the sake of comedy, but this just wasn't funny. I don't know who gave Jay and Silent Bob the license to strike back, I just hope they don't have a return of the red eyes. "},{"Title":"A real flop.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith is a very talented writer, but he derives his humor and the plot structure of his films from the human struggles that ordinary people face in their everyday lives. This would ordinarily not be a weakness as it would permit virtually anyone to connect with his characters.The problem is that Kevin Smith apparently has failed to see his characters Jay and Silent Bob as being real people with real problems. This not only dehumanizes them, but it strips away almost all of the material that Smith is capable of turning into either plot or humor. The film is consequently lacking both in plot, character, and humor. Smith cannot write based purely upon fantasy without that connection to reality and to human experience. It seems very odd to see that Smith has failed to get under the skin of Jay and Silent Bob, considering how much these characters have added to other films that Smith has made, and for that matter, considering that Smith plays Silent Bob himself, but apparently Jay and Silent Bob are 'spice' characters in the 'dish' of Kevin Smith movies; seemingly vital and adding an enormous amount, but utterly incomplete on their own. Instead of a tasty meal, the viewer of this film is presented with a set of salt and pepper shakers!The film is so lacking in plot that Smith has apparently attempted to make it a spoof of Hollywood, but this attempt fails miserably. Rather than spoofing Hollywood, the film effectively refers to it. This film contains the worst spoof elements that I have seen in any commercial film, up to and including the atrocious Date Movie. If you love the other films of Kevin Smith, avoid this one, because it lacks all the skillful dialog, humor. and human touch that make his films great. "}{"Title":"Chasing Clerks","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was supposed to be the funniest film of the year (well, at least that was what the poster said). I found it one of the most pathetic films of the year. The jokes, the cursing, the story, the characters. All have been great in 'Clerks' and from that point it went downhill with Smith. 'Mallrats', 'Chasing Amy' and 'Dogma' weren't as smart and funny as his first film. And 'Jay and Silent Bob strike back' is a very silly film, made with very little imagination. It's like he wants to say isn't my gang great. We don't have to do anything to make a film, we just have to show up. It's about time that Smith stops wasting his talent, or has he run out? 3/10 "},{"Title":"The King is dead ...long live the King!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As one who is soon to see the start of his sixth decade on this planet I always relish the unseating of the old king with the new, the old champion with the new...etc. I see about 125 movies a year and have seen the spectrum of bad to wonderful in the past few decades. Until today a movie called The People Under the Stairs had the status of being the worst movie I have ever seen. It has stood proudly against such contenders as Caddy Shack 2 and Troop Beverly Hills for many years.  Believe me there have been many other would be champions of the worst, but seemingly none like the crop from this year and none even in the class of the new king. This abomination sets new and I rather imagine unsurpassable standards of terrible-ness that will last the rest of the decade at least. I got trapped into going to this ...this thing by the review in the Houston Chronicle. Satire and parody when in the hands of a skilled writer and director can be wonderful. When they become diatribes that are  so trite and vulgar that even a movie junkie like me cannot find the remotest bit of redeeming ....anything in it, well...this thing is a train wreck of redundant f words and flatulence and nothing more.  Even the kids in the movie were restive and didn't even snicker at the bathroom humor after awhile.  Humor is the wrong word here, residual is a better choice.  That is what the new king of bad is...bathroom residual. But there is one nice thing....People Under the Stairs can now throw off the yoke of worst movie ever made, for there is a new king.... Long live the King!! "},{"Title":"Stupid, but very funny with only a slight sag in the middle","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stoners Jay and Bob spend their time selling drugs in front of a grocery store and hanging out.  When they are introduced to the world of the internet they discover that a film version is being made of the comic book that they were the inspiration for.  Not only that but people are on the message boards insulting and slandering them.  In order to stop the slander Jay and Bob decide to travel to Hollywood to stop the filming and therefore stop the internet discussions.  A cross-country adventure ensues that includes stolen monkeys, international jewel thieves, the scooby-doo gang, a star wars confrontation, many many cameos and a million rude jokes.The plot for this film is very, very weak.  However for the most part you're laughing so hard you don't care how thin it is.  It's only the middle section where the Scooby Doo bit and the jewel thief bit come in, where the jokes are less funny and the plot is more silly where you feel it.  That said it's still really funny - Jay's desire to steal/liberate a monkey in order to get a woman to sleep with him is hilarious (we steal monkeys all the time in Jersey If I'd known stealing monkeys would get me sex, I'd have been doing it since I was 7!) as is his rant on behalf of C.L.I.T.!The humour is all of one type.  If you know these characters from the other Red Bank films then you'll know if you'll like them or not.  If you don't know them already then some of the jokes here will go over your head - there's lots of in-jokes and references to actions and characters in the other films that you won't understand (although some are still funny).  Some of the references go too far and aren't funny - one joke in particular where the characters say something like who'd pay to see a movie like that? or I hate it when you get roped into a movie by a friend and then look out at the audience, isn't funny the first time or the 5th time.  However most of the jokes are really funny thanks to a) Mewes's wonderfully un-PC, obscene dealer and b) Smith's great writing.As I said some of the scenes are funny for 5 seconds but soon die out (the scooby doo bit gets dry pretty quick) but the majority is great.  Standout bits include the monkey stuff, the whole Miramax-ribbing climax, the Phantom Menace skit and Chris Rock's angry black director (very similar to Hooper in Chasing Amy).  The focus on sex related jokes makes for a film you're either going like or hate - and I loved it.  Yes too many characters from other film are shoved in unfunny scenes (Affleck's Holden is poor and Lee is given nothing to work with in the role of Brodie that he was fantastic in in Mallrats), but the majority of it is great.There are too many cameos to mention but nearly all of them are funny - high points include Chris Rock who missed out on making a black Sesame Street (he was going to call it N.W.P. - you work it out!), Carrie Fisher as the nun who lives by the book, Jason Biggs lamenting his pie-humping typecasting, Mark Hamill in the star wars spoof, the director and cast of Good Will Hunting poking major fun at Miramax and money grabbing sequels and Wes Craven directing Shannon Doherty in Scream 4 in a bang-on swipe at the Scream movies.  The main acting pressure was all on Mewes as Jay, as Bob doesn't speak enough to carry the film, and he succeeds.  Here his dirty mouth is given plenty of funny situations and good lines to work with and it ensures that his good performance carries through the whole thing and stops him getting annoying.Overall this is one funny film and a very good way to say goodbye to these characters.  Dry is some places, brilliant in others this isn't to everyone's taste but will please Smith fans easily.  It's not The Godfather but it does what it's supposed to and does it well. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Devoid of the cool of previous Kevin Smith films","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm an action movie guy, and I don't mind comedies with a bit of an edge. If there's a battle of verbal abuse and put-downs, well, that can make good dialogue, although I didn't like the extreme Kings of Comedy.As such, I've watched and enjoyed other Kevin Smith films. Clerks was great, and Dogma and Chasing Amy were worth watching. You know when bad becomes good? There's a certain campy, chaotic brilliance to these films that a guy like me who likes intellectual (but not arty) movies enjoys.Unfortunately, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back isn't in the same league. The chaos goes too far, essentially having no connection between little skits that occur. Even a parody needs to be self-connected and have interesting characters. Jay and Silent Bob are both anti-characters. If they were flat characters, I could deal with that. But they are like one-line puns that just go nowhere here.Combine that with poor acting, cameos that didn't fit in properly, and I just get the feeling that this mid-budget film just wasn't trying very hard.Who should see this-- Jay & Silent Bob fans who don't care what the #$#*($I say, they're just going to have to go see it. Fine.-- Everybody else, avoid, even if you enjoy racy comediesI really wanted to enjoy this film, I'm into the genre, but I'm going to have to give Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably awful","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After about 30 minutes of not a laugh, not even a grin, I decided to stick around until the final credits to see for myself whether Kevin Smith actually wrote and/or directed this mess.  Sure enough, he did.  I thought Dogma was terrific, but this--this was close to the opposite.  The only life in this film came from Chris Rock's star turn.  Everything else was painfully cute.  I won't again make the mistake of thinking that Smith's participation is a sufficient basis to see a film.  For a moment, I thought maybe Smith was attempting to sabotage the film.  A 3, and then only for Chris Rock. "},{"Title":"Way too simplistic for my taste.","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you have to give Kevin Smith one thing it is that he with his movies has proved that everybody can be a successful indie director when really putting your mind to it and throwing yourself into the field. He is a real great inspiration and somewhat of a role model for aspiring young new film-makers. It's definitely impressive to see what he has achieved already so far but that just doesn't make me a fan of his work as well.With this movie, Kevin Smith is doing what he knows best; being a geek and being proud of it. He makes lots of geek references in this movie, both with movies and comics. It's however one thing to make references, it's a totally different thing to be clever, original and funny with it. In this movie he has some hits and misses with that but overall the movie is being far too simplistic with its story.The humor of the movie is mostly very immature (yes, there are even fart jokes in it) and this movie is obviously not one to take serious, since it defies all logic. This is of course an OK thing for a comedy to do but it seemed to me that the story was being far too simplistically written and could had basically been written by any random geek, attempting for a first time to write a movie and put as many geeky stuff in it as possible. This goes for the story, as well as for most of its jokes and references. It's just not really a movie that really made me laugh. It instead more often made me cringe.Having said that, I do have to admit that the movie has some really great dialog in, which still uplifts this movie.It's a movie that is not only handing together from its references but also from its many cameos. I don't mind cameos as long as they somewhat serve a (comical) purpose and there aren't too many of them. In this movie there are obviously very many, which can get really distracting at times. Some of them are good and fun and do work out though, though that all is still really a matter of taste. I mean, some people will find the Will Ferrell part bad and annoying, while others (like myself) probably find it to be the most funny thing about the entire movie.Not really a good or funny movie by my taste and judgment, though I can still see that this movie might be really 'the' thing for some people. 5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"An example of excess","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm always torn about this film. On one hand, I loved some of the humor, notably the references to Smith's other creations, reviving Dante, Randall, Holden, and Banky into one picture. The humor at the Quick Stop that started it all is golden. Then there's moments from Will Ferrel, who's humor is foolproof and at home with Smith's crafted dialogue in spite of Ferrel's many improvisations. But Smith's films seem to reflect where he is at that moment in his life. Clerks was great, and while Mallrats suffered, they garnered a sizable cult following. Chasing Amy was a critical success and helped make a star out of Ben Affleck. It also succeeded because, like Clerks, it was very personal. Dogma, despite how outlandish the plot was, also had personal ties, as they addressed his feelings toward religion.So what does that make Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back? Besides revisiting the characters we love, it seemed like an exercise in excess. There's nothing to relate to in the film. The film is too self referential for its own good that there's nothing original or new in here. The humor is sporadic - in the very beginning and in the very end, it's hilarious. But it seems more like a bunch of cameos than in an honest movie. Smith was becoming more recognizable at this time and, if anything, the film seems to be about fame. But it's too much excess for me. It lacks the humanity of his previous efforts, which however perverse, had a heart at their core. That's why I liked Clerks, loved Chasing Amy, and liked Dogma in a special kinda way. This movie doesn't say anything and the dialogue is not nearly as sharp as it could be. If you like Smith's characters, you'll be amused to see them again, but Smith doesn't explore their dimensions as he had in prior movies. Jay and Bob, maybe, but let's face - there's not much too them. The movie's very slapstick, which isn't Smith's niche. It's still mildly amusing, but I've found it lacks the repeat pleasure of his other works. "},{"Title":"Glad I went, but...","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back runs the gamut from brilliant satire to embarrassing dreck.  When Kevin Smith is on the top of his writing and directing form, you will laugh yourself sick.  When he's not, you will have one eye on the exits and the other on your watch.  It's an uneven ride, but, if you can stick with it, you'll find it worth your while. My main difficulty with the movie is Silent Bob's character, who has gone from stoic and all-observing to a rubber-faced, mugging point of alleged visual interest.  It's a jarring, distracting performance because Silent Bob is suddenly quite out of his well-established character, and for no readily acceptable reason.  What was previously an example of brilliant understatement turns into a mime show, and not a particularly good  one.Jay and Silent Bob are at their very best in their previous films when they fill their role as engaging and interesting -- but supporting -- characters. Bringing this duo into the center-stage spotlight is an experiment that's best not repeated. Don't get me wrong  when the movie is good, it is platinum good.  It's just that I have seen enough previous examples of Mr Smith's excellent craft to bring a high set of expectations with me into the theatre. "},{"Title":"Jungle Love","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob finally get their own movie. Fans of Kevin Smith's Jersey movies (Clerks, Mallrats...) will know Jay and Silent Bob from their cameos which often contain some of the funniest moments in the film. This final (possibly not) outing is filled to bursting with in-jokes and cameos from the previous movies. The humour will never be considered high brow, but it does have several funny moments. The plot at times can be erratic as it is clearly just setting up the next (fart) joke. I would definitely recommend seeing the earlier films in the series first as their are a number of in-jokes (in order Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma). If you have seen the earlier films this is closest in tone to Mallrats. I really enjoyed this movie, I hope you do too. "},{"Title":"Another Kevin Smith laugh riot","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie around 7 or 8 times and each time I laugh just as much.Plot Possible SpoilersJay & Silent Bob (from the four previous Kevin Smith movies) discover that a movie is being made based on their comic book of Bluntman & Chronic. Not only don't they receive any money from the movie but 'Internet geeks' are also insulting their character from the safety of their computers. So now the hilarious pair are off to Hollywood to sabotage the film. On their journey they meet several cameos such as Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Carrie Fisher, Mark Hammil and many more.End of SpoilersIf you've seen past movies such as Clerks, Chasing Amy, Mallrats and/or Dogma and enjoyed them, then there is a guaranteed laugh in this. Although it does include extremely high profanity but it's still a hilarious movie and worth a watch.  "}{"Title":"I am not twelve years old.  I am not amused.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes were decent enough, providing a few laughs here and there.  Then came the rest of the movie.  Other than a couple of funny one-liners here and there, this was a total snoozefest that got old REALLY quick.  Back when I was around 13 or 14 years old, I would've probably thought this was a funny movie.  But I've heard the 'f-word' enough times in my life so that it's funny anymore when it occupies 20% of the entire script.  I'm a huge fan of mindless comedies, but this one doesn't even have half the comedic value of, say, Beverly Hills Ninja (and that's saying a lot).    "},{"Title":"A painful experience from start to distant finish!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Smith has lost himself inside himself...and that's not a fun place for an audience to spend 2 hours and ten dollars.  Clerks was cute...Mallrats was good stupid fun..Chasing Amy was a good movie...Dogma was somewhat painful...but not half as bad as Jay & Silent Bob..  This is doo-doo.  I will definately never ever see another Kevin Smith movie.  With that said, please don't let him do the new Superman film. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't been forced to run out of the cinema but watching this movie I was really in the edge. This is without a doubt the worst movie experience in my life. Where was the humor? was it the foul, dirty language, the jokes over audience or 2 pathetic, dumb guys. I don't know. I do not recommend this movie even to my foe. 1/10 (0 if possible) "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hated this movie. I was not offended by the language or the sexuality, but I was offended by how stupid this waste of time packaged as a movie was. I can't believe that so many people liked this movie. It is boring and ranks with Hudson Hawk as the one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Some movies are so bad that their fun to watch. This one isn't. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just not worth renting. It's labeled as a comedy, but  there is almost nothing funny in this movie what so ever. I was very  surprised to see this movie rated at 7.2 here at IMDb. I have read some  of the other reviews on this movie, and other people seem to think this  movie is hilarious, and I couldn't disagree more. I don't think I  laughed more than two or three times during the entire movie. Not  because I didn't understand the humor, but their humor is just not  funny. But if you liked Mallrats, then maybe this movie is for you.  Only thing nice about this movie is the girls starring in it,  especially Eliza Dushku )  If you are going to rent a comedy, go rent another.  "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, BUT it's supposed to be that way...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every other film Kevin Smith has done is phenominal; from Clerksto Dogma, these are my favorites.  I don't know what happened toJay and Silent Bob; this movie was one big drag-on to me.... But it did have some good points.  Despite all of the commercialtie-ins between all of Kevin Smith's other movies, this filmdenounces Hollywood and just has fun with itself.  It's not trying toimpress other people, not trying to win any awards, but to exposethis thing we call Hollywood and all of the icons it has created,while going on to say these are all stupid and to go so far as to saythat public opinion does matter.  This movie was full of other movietie-ins (Planet of the Apes, every movie that Kevin Smith has done)and that annoyed me; so even though I didn't like this movie, I stillgive Kevin Smith props for expressing himself, just having fun, andJay and Silent Bob will always be the modern day Abbott andCostello in my collection. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have seen in a long time.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have a hard time understanding how people can find this film even slightly amusing. But ok, if the most hilarious thing you can think of is seeing someone smoke a joint and break wind you are in for a treat.The acting is worse than in a mid-day teen soap. I think the best actor in the film must be the monkey.I cannot recall a single funny scene in the movie, it is that bad.Don't spend money on this crap, unless you are an american 12 year old, even if you liked Jay and Bob's appearance in Dogma and Mallrats.2/10 .Rezrov "},{"Title":"Subpar Smith","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a big fan of Kevin Smith's films, I hate to say it, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back wasn't very good. When I first heard this would be the last of the Jay & Silent Bob films, I was kinda sad. I'm a big fan of Smith's films, particularly Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy. However, this film seemed to indicate that the series was running on fumes. True, this film probably didn't intend to have any serious message, but the material seems forced and just didn't seem to have the fresh appeal that Mallrats had. A monumental drawback, and this is what I think sealed the film's doom, is the enormous aura of pretentiousness given by the characters. The characters are all well-loved, the problem is that now they're ACTING like they KNOW they're well-loved. The film is not a total loss. There are a few memorable moments, particularly the Scooby-Doo sequence ranks with the best View Askew movie moments. Jay also has his biggest part in any of the 5 View Askew films, but even that isn't enough to save the film. At best, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is a film that has some excellent moments, but overall doesn't match the appeal or wit of its predecessors. "},{"Title":"Doped out loser hustlers on a road trip to Hollywood to clear their names. From the Clerks, Mall Rats, Chasing Amy stable. Very Vulgar and often funny 2 and a Half Flys out of 5","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob were first delivered in Clerks, then Mall Rats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. Jay (Jason Mewes) is a vulgar, very non PC, drug dealing hang about. So is Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), but unlike Jay who never shuts up, Silent Bob doesn't say much. Kevin Smith writes and directs these masterpieces for the Mall deprived and for the more discerning cinema goer. Smith certainly doesn't aim for intellectual heights, but as well as being often very funny, the Jay character is fascinating.Jay is utterly self obsessed and abusive even to his close friend Silent Bob. He's utterly shallow towards women. He's the Clit Master and vulgar in the extreme. But he's fearless and certainly good for many laughs.The women in this film are mainly represented by four Charlies Angels types (Shannon Elizabeth, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter and Jennifer Schwalbach) who are self acknowledged tough, leather clad, thin girl stereotypes, although one of them unaccountably falls for Jay! She's a pretty stupid stereotype I'd say.The movie is full of running jokes, often from Kevin Smith's previous films, and also references to Star Wars (Mark Hamill and Carrie Fisher appear). Many previous stars pop up including Ben Afleck who with Matt Damon pointedly tell us in an aside to the camera exactly why they're in the film. A lot of this film is great fun.Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back is vulgar. An American right wing web site apparently took the time and trouble to count 227 f words (which is very amusing in itself). The humour is hit and miss and film is certainly uneven but it's also lots of fun if you're in the market for a couple of dags, 227 f's (count them!) and dozens of fart jokes.2 And A Half Flys out of 5 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed with this movie.  I have loved every single one of Kevin Smith's movies up to this point.  This movie seriously lacked the intelligence of Smith's previous movies and he sees to now be regressing to become one of his imitators.  If there wasn't some juvienille and unfunny fart or gay joke (and those two jokes were the only ones in the movie), there was tons of pats on the back by Smith and Co. as they self-congratulate each other.  At the end of the movie, Kevin more or less admits it's a horrible movie but he has his revenge when Jay and Bob go beat up all the critics who didn't like the Bluntman and Chronic movie. Kevin even manages to degrade his own previous films.  At one point, Holden McNiel (from Chasing Amy) says at one point, Days like this make me feel ok about dating a lesbian as if the dramatic events that happened in that movie were meaningless.  The only good parts were the few connecting scenes to the previous films and a couple movie spoofs. If you're a Kevin Smith fan, watch all the movies from Clerks to Dogma and then just stop. "}{"Title":"What a sophomoric verbal assault!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you thought Blair Witch assaulted your ears with streaming profanity, you ain't heard nothin' yet.  I'm no shrinking violet - I swear enough to make hard core rappers blush.  But that didn't begin to prepare me for this film. Without question, this film represents the single most outrageous display of nonstop graphic profanity ever caught on film.But I could look past that, if it were funny.  It's not.Don't expect more than a few laughs.  Don't take your wife.  Don't send your daughter.  In fact, don't even go.  You'll keep waiting for the laughs, but the few that come aren't worth the wait.  I give it a 1, only because I didn't throw up! "},{"Title":"Insult to the audience","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm posting because this movie made so many jokes about trashing movies via the Internet, and about how bad it itself is, that I feel almost obligated to do some real trashing and not just leave it in the realm of their silly self-referential jokes.Kevin Smith is a talented writer whose previous films have often had genuine humor and substance.  This puppy was written in 5 minutes and is an insult. Most of the jokes are self-referential or insider/Hollywood parodies of other movies (I quote parodies because it doesn't actually make fun of other movies, it just references them.)  Some of the other jokes are such easy, stale humor that I was flabbergasted Smith actually expected us to find it interesting or funny.  The soundtrack, which accompanies every single line with a little twist of music, is this movie's lack of subtlety in a nutshell.  The millions of famous actors seem completely lost, with nothing to do except dutifully deliver their token lines.  Smith, a good writer, painfully overdoes Bob's expressions.  Only Jay seems natural, in his own surreal way.  I really like this character and it's amazing that he's able to survive that absolute dung that is put in his mouth for lines. He comes through the movie intact, but little else does.The plot is contrived and stale and near the end completely ceases to make any kind of sense.  Everything is fake, flat, self-referential, and smug. The humor playing off other current movies and breaking the fourth wall is reminiscent of something a bunch of kids in high school would write, not something I should have paid to see in a theater.  In sum, this movie made me sick and very disappointed in Kevin Smith, who I can't imagine needed the money badly enough to play this joke on his previous fans. "},{"Title":"worst episode ever!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was horrible...I guess I should have expected a movie based around those characters to be filled with fart jokes and pot head humor (was this movie made by the wayans brothers???). Clerks was such a great movie filled with witty and clever humor. But Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a perfect example of a great film maker becoming popular, making money, and trying to appeal to the mainstream of society (the same people who went and saw scary movie, and all other PoS movies). Well Kevin Smith just lost my respect (not that he cares...as long as he gets his money). I wouldn't mind watching dante and randal having hilarious conversations and interacting with customers for over 10 hours straight. however, listening to jay constantly talk about sex and drugs gets old after 15 minutes. jay and silent bob are characters that should only be seen sporadically in 5 minute clips throughout the movie (clerks, mallrats). i don't think it was a good idea to make them the stars of a movie. but there are those people that like randal humor, and those that like jay humor.Randal is GOD! "},{"Title":"A grim ending","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it is possible to have thoroughly enjoyed all of Kevin Smith's previous movies, and yet not be entertained by this one.**Potential Spoilers Ahead**How is that possible?  Well, in all of the other movies we were allowed to see Jay and Silent Bob only in small doses.  We were not forced to spend two hours in Jay's world...and should be very glad for that.  The other movies actually had plots, and characters with IQs above 50.  In this movie, those characters only had cameos-- they played the roles which Jay and Silent Bob normally play and should have been playing in this movie, the Greek Chorus.So now our curiosity is satisfied as to what an entire movie devoted to Jay's warped brain looks like-- it ain't pretty.  Honestly, crude humor can be fun provided it's clever, but very little of this was clever.  I felt almost ashamed for Shannon Elizabeth, playing the role of Jay's love interest.  Poor thing, it must have taken quite a bit of acting ability to pull off making us believe that her character would be interested in a skinny little Howard Stern wannabe.Several times during the movie I thought Damn, how pathetic and once it even slipped out, muttered under my breath...  The rehashings of bits from other movies were funny, I will give it that.  But the actual attempt at a plot?  Abysmal.  Will Farrell was thoroughly unamusing, which was disappointing considering that he might have added a nice diversion to Jay's constant f*ck f*ck f*ck all of the time.  Justice's (Shannon Elizabeth) cohorts, Chrissy, Missy, and Sissy, were stereotypical brainless b*tches who prance around in their underwear after stealing jewelry while wearing skin-tight latex outfits.  That, I expected.  It is a raunchy movie, after all, and it was in the previews.  But I REALLY could have done without all of the look how sexy we are sequences... was beginning to contemplate asking my neighbor for his empty popcorn cup so I could puke into it.Jay and Silent Bob's riding around Miramax studios was actually kind of funny, bringing to mind PeeWee Herman's Big Adventure when he was trying to get his bike back.   I enjoyed seeing Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek poking fun at themselves, as well as the pseudo sequel to Good Will Hunting. But really, that was about it.  If this is Kevin Smith's way of putting his trilogy to bed, at least it was done in such a way as to not leave me crying for more.  I'll just re-watch Clerks and Chasing Amy and be happy for the contribution he made. "},{"Title":"If you like Kevin Smith, you'll hate Jay and Silent Bob!!!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to the theater to see this big-budget monstrosity hoping for another classic Kevin Smith movie along the same vein as the others, (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma); however, I was sorely disappointed. To all you out there that thought the movie was great, you obviously have in fact never seen another movie directed by Smith, only heard about them. For if you had seen any one of them, this movie would have failed on too many points to describe.  Kevin Smith has always been a creative genius in my mind for all his previous comical successes.  However with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back it is apparent that Hollywood has taken her newest victim, that Kevin Smith could not escape the fate of so many other greats before him- he has sold out. It appears that all these popular movie stars, (even awful SNL stars like Will Farell) and the insanely large budget (compared to Clerks's $20,000) could not help this terrible script devoid of any real value, either as a real Kevin Smith movie or even a farce full of weed and fart jokes.To sum it all up- Do not go see this movie, it was the worst thing I've ever paid money to see.  Say it ain't so Kevin, say it ain't so.... "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's first disaster","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Attention Kevin Smith fans, this movie is a huge bomb! I saw the sneak preview Saturday night and was I ever disappointed. I had been looking forward to this movie for over a year (judging from the size of the crowd, I was the only one) and I couldn't have been more disappointed. After making two movies (Chasing Amy and Dogma) that actually had interesting plots, this movie is more concerned with star cameos than anything else. There were about five really funny bits in the film that would have made a nice fifteen minute short that would have been a valuable add on to a special edition DVD of one of the memorable Kevin Smith films. Jay and Bob are funny in small doses, but when you give them their own film, they demonstrate none of the creativity you come to expect from Kevin Smith. Regrettably, this film will rank right up there with some of the biggest garbage of all time. I think that I would rather have several teeth extracted than have to sit through this again. Save your money and rent it when it comes to video. "},{"Title":"Smith is in way outta his depth with this one","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Obviously, this movie is was targeting Smith's useful idiot/fans who care only about stringing together vulgarities with schoolyard efficiency. Now, I understand that with Smith, few actors can hardly be expected to act. Essentially, I think it was probably more fun making this crap, than actually acting. There is no story, nothing in the way of narrative, and no character arcs in the classic sense. You'll get Smith performing fellatio to his god, George Lucas. And unclever, odiously contrived pothead homages. It all gets so dull, and bland so quick. While Jay and Silent Bob may be Smith's Beavis and Butt-Head, or Cheech and Chong, they are hardly worth devoting an entire picture to. Personally, I feel Smith decided to fill his coffers, but didn't want to actually do real work, since that undertaking of Dogma. What has always been Smith's niche, was florid, albeit very coarse dialog. It sometimes seemed insightful, or poignant. None of that here, skip this crap and stay above the influence. "},{"Title":"Vulgarity struck this one out.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Could have been funny had it not been for all the vulgarity! Using babies to promote comedy through swearing seems a bit overboard.  The only thing that could possibly carry the movie is Ben Affleck. Lets face it our society must be all brain damaged if this is a hit. "},{"Title":"More misses than hits","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The idea was fun (Jay and Silent Bob traveling to Hollywood to try and stop a movie being made) but it doesn't work. There are plenty of jokes but for every good one there are five or six that fall flat. Also, to get most of the jokes you have to have seen every Kevin Smith movie ever made. If you haven't, you'll be lost.The plot rambles all over the place...there are constant detours that just make no sense.The cameos by many actors sometimes work--but more often than not the actors seem embarrassed by what they're doing. The only really funny one involves Ben Affleck and Matt Damon. Also we (unfortunately) get Jason Lee--unattractive as always and giving another bad performance.Also we see director/writer Kevin Smith's fascination with young, gorgeous women in tight-fitting clothes walking around in slow motion--in fact, we're treated to this THREE TIMES!!! Keep your sexual fantasies out of your movies next time, OK Kevin?And (since it's a Kevin Smith) a certain four-letter work beginning with f is uttered about 100 times--in a 90 minute movie. I'd like to see if he could write a script NOT using that word. Probably not.I'm not recommending this (of course) but some of the jokes do work and I did get a kick out of the constant references to the crap Miramax cranks out. Still, there is an audience for this...so if it looks good to you, you might like it. "},{"Title":"When Good Comedy Goes REALLY, REALLY bad...","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while, a movie comes along that actually becomes the trash it is supposed to be lampooning.  I want to start by saying that I am not a prude.  I love South Park-style toilet humor, Beavis and Butthead AND Jay and Silent Bob.  I would definitely have to say that I didn't just feel like I was ripped off by this movie, I felt robbed and beaten.  This movie was so hideously bad, I don't even know where to begin.  How many times can one movie cram the same tired jokes in?  This film has the answer.  And what was with that tired Scream reference??  How many times has that been done?A lot of you out there might be thinking I missed the point; that I didn't see the subversive ART of this movie.  My problem is, I hate brainless, sophomoric comedies and this one spoofed one SOO seamlessly that it became one of the worst ones ever.  Maybe it IS good then.  I don't enjoy suffering through a really bad movie, though, spoof or not.  Monkeys are NOT funny. Neither are tired Hollywood jokes.  I haven't been a loyal Kevin Smith fan, I must admit.  I LOVED Clerks, hated Mallrats, was bored by Chasing Amy and nearly fell over laughing at Dogma.  Kevin Smith missed the mark on this one.  AT times it felt snobbish and exclusive to hardcore Smith fans, as well.  If you're willing to suffer for art, by all means run and see it.  I have a feeling this may be the next Blair Witch where the line between love and hate is drawn right down the middle.  I loved Blair Witch, I guess I'm on the hate side of this one.  I would give this 0 out of 10 if I could. "}{"Title":"An absolutely hilarious film","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The fifth film in Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse, this is an absolutely hilarious film which very effectively parodies Hollywood. It tells the story of Jay and Silent Bob's rather eventful trip to Tinseltown to stop the production of the film adaptation of the comic Bluntman and Chronic based on their lives. As it was originally going to be the final View Askewniverse film, Smith decided to make his two signature characters the focus of the storyline for the first time. It features numerous references to the earlier films, though only a handful to Dogma, and includes at least one character (other than the eponymous drug dealers / prophets) from each of them. It does not make any allowances for those who have not seen the first four films and as such it is doubtful that people not familiar with them would be able to fully appreciate it. Smith's writing and direction are both very strong. Rather than dealing with serious topics as was the case with Chasing Amy and Dogma, the film is simply an excuse to have some fun. For my money, it is Smith's funniest film since Clerks.As it is to be expected, Jason Mewes is hysterical as Jay, who remains as foulmouthed and idiotic as ever. One of the funniest parts of the film is when he imagines a devil on each shoulder - and later a battered and bruised angel - when he considers whether he or not he should drop his trousers in front of Justice, whom he has only known for a few hours. He eventually decides against it, which is perhaps for the best. What makes the scene works as well as it does is that all the time that he is receiving advice from these imaginary spirits, Justice is getting increasingly freaked out, if not downright frightened, by the fact that he keeps looking at his shoulders and reacting to nothing. Justice, a sexy international jewel thief - is there any other kind? - with whom he quickly falls in love, is played very well by Shannon Elizabeth and she has great chemistry with Mewes. When it comes to his relationship with Justice, Jay displays a softer side, after a fashion, and even stops calling her a bitch at her request. He instead calls her boom boom kitty f***. He becomes so gallant and debonair as the film progresses that he could easily be mistaken for David Niven. Although he has far more screen time than in the previous films, Silent Bob has only two lines - perhaps he fell out with the writer-director - but his facial expressions communicate a great deal throughout. Smith's use of the film to mock his online critics may not have been the most mature thing in the world to do but, by God, it was funny.The film is basically an exercise in self-indulgence on the one hand and breaking the fourth wall on the other. And I love it for that! For instance, Ben Affleck reprises his role as Holden McNeil from Chasing Amy in the early part of the film and praises the talents of the talented young actor Ben Affleck, though he was not too fond of Good Will Hunting. Later in the film, he plays himself and is depicted filming a scene of the considerably more violent Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season with Matt Damon, who is still annoyed that Affleck convinced him to do Dogma. Gus Van Sant has a cameo as the uninterested director, who spends his entire time leafing through a script, seemingly that of another film. Perhaps he was contemplating doing a shot-for-shot remake of Clerks. I would love to see the fictional Scream 4 in which Jay and Silent Bob's orangutan friend Suzanne is revealed to be Ghostface! Jason Lee reprises his role as both Brodie Bruce and Banky Edwards from Mallrats and Chasing Amy respectively. Even though he has only one scene as Brodie, he manages to be funnier than he was at any point in Mallrats as he was given much better material. If there is one thing that I have learned from the View Askewniverse films, it is that New Jersey has a surprisingly small gene pool for a place with almost nine million people. Will Ferrell is good as Marshal Willenholly but he could have been considerably better. Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter and Smith's wife Jennifer Schwalbach are great fun as Sissy, Chrissy and Missy, Justice's partners in crime who are basically evil versions of Charlie's Angels. In skintight black leather. Chris Rock is incredibly funny as the Bluntman and Chronic director Chaka Luther King. Any resemblance to Spike Lee is purely coincidental. The film is full to the brim with great cameos but my favourites other than those I have already mentioned are Carrie Fisher as a nun, George Carlin as a hitchhiker, Mark Hamill as himself playing Bluntman and Chronic's arch-nemesis Cocknocker, Judd Nelson as a sheriff, Joey Lauren Adams as Alyssa Jones, Dwight Ewell as Hooper X (who is seemingly Banky's boyfriend these days), Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek as themselves and, of course, Brian O'Halloran as Dante and Jeff Anderson as Randal.Overall, this is a laugh riot from start to finish. I am glad that this was not the end of the View Askewniverse after all but I would have been more than satisfied if it had been. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Forever!","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (2001) Dir Kevin Smith / Cast Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Shannon Elizabeth, Will Ferrell, Eliza Dushku A celebration of characters made memorable by Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes. The dope dealing duo discover a movie in production based on their personas so they venture to Hollywood to stop it. Amusing setup simmers into road movie formula where they molest a nun, steal an ape, and encounter four female thieves. Director Kevin Smith delivers Hollywood in jokes with celebrities spoofing themselves yet this still manages to be only a routine road movie crude comedy. Mewes and Smith are on target until the road trip then everything depends on celebrity cameos and a dreary subplot regarding the four female thieves. In the end they stand up for the little guy as well as gain acclaim in Hollywood for which they cause quite a fiasco. Shannon Elizabeth among the thieves is weak. None of these females are particularly well drawn but Elizabeth and her desires for Jay is too far fetched. Will Ferrell is hilarious as a ranger whom is constantly made the fool yet his determination seems to pull through. Eliza Dushku leads the female bandits that also include Ali Larter and Jennifer Schwalbach. Film ties together characters from previous Smith films with references to Hollywood but the humour is vulgar with a total lack of dignity in its heroes. Score 7  / 10 "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it but Chris rock ruined it!","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoiler alert!!!OK I really liked the whole idea for the movie and the idea of two no life's actually being inspirational. This whole movie is really funny and it feels like a dumb and dumber film just with more swearing, violence, and an annoying black so-called comedian bashing on white people all because he's having a bad day. I mean this movie was ruined not only by the white bashing but it was the talentless Chris rock! This guy drives me crazy and every time I see him, I'd like to punch the TV. I just have to ask why must a racist African American even be brought up? This movie was fine without him and besides he serves no comedic purpose except to make the viewer wish he was killed during the end fight scene. Now I don't expect you to agree with me about whether Chris rock is funny or not I just wish people would understand that race bashing should be outlawed. Come on whites get called racists because of this how come black people could get away with this?! Anyway the movie was very good it had a very good cast, with the exception of Chris rock. Overall I think the funniest scene was when the orangutan likely kills Jason Biggs and the other guy dressed up as Jay. I mean wasn't expecting it, that was ingenious. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fifteen bucks, little man - put that sh*t in my hand. If that money doesn't show, then you owe me, owe me, owe...","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The marvellous mind of Kevin Smith. Jay and Silent Bob is by far one of the funniest, most memorable comedy films ever. You have two hilarious characters, Jay (Jason Mewes), and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) two potheads who seek revenge because they earn no money for their creation. The film has many different roles from huge, major actors - including appearances from Chris Rock, Jason Lee, Ben Affleck and Shannon Elizabeth. The film is not a hit-and-miss, one-time-viewing kinda film. It's one of those films you can watch over and over and it still has the same effect on you every time you watch it. Its impact is fantastic, the comedy is always very funny, the characters are always great to watch over and over again, it just never gets old. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is by far one of the most incredibly funny and comical films ever made. The iconic characters make the film superb! 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Home Run For Kevin Smith!","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a fan of Kevin Smith, even though I didn't like Jersey Girl, he still makes great movies. Clerks, Dogma, and Mallrats I really like, even Chasing Amy is decent enough. So going in, I didn't know what to expect. Jay and Silent Bob had always been kind of in the background, so I was glad to hear that they were stretching this into a feature.There are a lot of good laughs throughout and I really liked it. Of course, the plot isn't supposed to be taken seriously and the characters are quirky. Even though Jay can be obnoxious, this character still has a lot of heart to him. Kevin Smith as Silent Bob is enjoyable to watch and when he finally says something, it's like a breath of fresh air. This movie is full of satire, endless cameos, and so many cross references to Smith's other films.It's one of those funny comedies that you watch with some friends late on a Saturday night. This was a pleasant surprise and I wasn't disappointed. I recommended it to anyone who like Kevin Smith's work and isn't easily offended! "},{"Title":"To be blunt, not chronically funny","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two stoners, one does not say much, the other never shuts up. Full off effing and blinding, a lot of gay jokes, some patchy humour and essentially a road trip where the duo steal a monkey get implicated in a diamond heist, meet the scooby gang and get shot at by Will Ferrell.Jay and Silent Bob are on their way to Hollywood to stop the comic book characters Bluntman and Chronic who have their likeness to be turned into a movie as well as getting paid for their use of image rights.Silent Bob is alright but Jay is too much for even the most broad minded mainly because he never shuts the f**k up. There is crude humour some funny, there are cameos including Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, although I found the constantly cash counting Gus Van Sant humorous as well as Chris Rock playing a venomous film director. "},{"Title":"Awesomely stupid fun","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are some films that you know you just shouldn't like and yet you love anyway. People watching 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' will either come to it fresh, or know about the 'Askewniverse.' This film is definitely for the latter - those who have watched writer/director/star's previous work, i.e. Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma - all of which are set in the same timeline (or 'Askewniverse' to use the technical term). In other words, you'll get the most out of Jay and Silent Bob's movie if you've seen what's gone before (in the correct order).If you're the former, you may like it, but it'll be a bit of a fluke it you do - it'll mean that you're probably into immature, smutty gags and smoke pot - which is mainly what's contained within the movie.You really have to put your brain on hold, or at least move it down into your boots because the humour here is as low-brow as you're going to get. It's mainly a case of 'know what you're getting' with this film. If you're prepared for one of the daftest, smuttiest, stupidest road trip movies ever made, which follows the exploits of two pot-heads who want to stop a movie about their life being made in Hollywood, then you'll probably enjoy this. If you're looking for something a little more intellectual then steer well clear.Bonus points to the film-makers for getting what must be one of the longest lists of celebrity cameos ever assembled for a movie - every one sends themselves up beautifully.I enjoyed it tremendously - in all it's low brow glory. "},{"Title":"Its own kind of humor...","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great thing, which is the reason it strongly differs from 'Clerks 1 & 2' (and yes, I am well aware they are not in the same franchise, but I like to compare them since Jay and Silent Bob originated from there), that you get to see much more locations. The story is a little more complex as well - especially compared to the first 'Clerks' movie.Do not get me wrong; I like this movie. Just, I think all these stoner references are not my cup of tea, as I am a straight edge guy. Though, the rest of the jokes made me laugh quite a lot.If you have enjoyed 'Clerks', you will love it! Not the best movie out there, but definitely funny. "},{"Title":"This is Kevin Smith's best movie","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. Until I saw this film Mallrats is my favorite Kevin Smith film but then I saw this and I was blown away by how funny it was. If you haven't seen any of Kevin Smith's other View Askew films then you probably won't like this as it has a lot of returning characters from other View Askew films and references to those previous films. Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are both hilarious as the titular duo and a whole movie about those to was something I was looking forward to since I first saw Clerks and I never Imagined it would be as funny as this but I was pleasantly surprised. I really Enjoyed the way that Mewes and Smith work well together even though Bob doesn't speak. All I can say is that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a must see for any Kevin Smith fan. "},{"Title":"An Idiotic film about two idiots","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comedy is one of the most varied genres in cinema. You have social comedy, intelligent comedy, comedy mixed with drama, slapstick comedy, parody, surrealistic humor, etc.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back belongs to a genre we may call Idiotics comedy. That is, two idiotic retarded dumbasses making idiotic things supposedly funny (If you have seen Jar Jar Binks in Episode I, you know what I mean). OK, to be fair, only Jay is a retarded idiotic. Silent Bob is just weird.May be some people find that kind of humor funny, but I find it way too stupid to be funny at all, even for children "}{"Title":"The End of the the Askewniverse... (Despite the Facts)","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The comic Bluntman and Chronic is based on real-life stoners Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), so when they get no profit from a big-screen adaptation they set out to wreck the movie.Being a huge fan of Kevin Smith back in the day (seeing each film on day one in the theater, starting with Mallrats), this film holds a special place in my heart. Now, objectively, it is not particularly that great of a film, relying heavily on potty humor and celebrity cameos. But it has a self-referential style that has to be appreciated.The first three films remain the strongest, and I think Dogma was a step down (a view that few people agree with). I blame this on the characters being more mobile -- the style switched from being conversation and dialogue-based to being much more active. This film is also quite active, but that almost seems like part of the joke -- it is, after all, something of a road movie.The jokes with Brodie, Dante and others were a bit too easy... but Ben Affleck joking about himself makes it all worth it. (I am especially a fan of the Phantoms joke, which was itself a reference to another joke from the Mallrats commentary... very obscure!) "},{"Title":"Simply not funny and awful. Also, worst movie I have ever seen...","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is about a couple of morons that for some obv reason (they're dumb; duh) start to take themselves too seriously, think that a movie (within) about them is being made without credit; and also they're being badmouthed on line; rightfully so, and simply decide to get even. A following roadtrip ensures. But that doesn't matter, because those guys aren't even interesting in their own sporadic appearances of their group of other movies; let alone this silly reply of a film. If they wanted to properly answer their detractors; they failed miserably, because now they've only confirmed that everything bad about them is indeed true. They are unfunny and can't act ass poop; but so all of the other people around. Especially the all star cameos showcased. They were gathered for nothing; because the direction, script and plot were so weak, that no-one could save this ridiculous mess; not even collectively. &BTW, they're fugly and metrogay too; but that won't matter to their minions. Smith even somehow managed to turn his babes into a turn off set of ugly vinyl silicon look alike trannies. Even the ape acted and looked better that everybody else put together in this P.O.S! People that actually paid to see this crapfest got ripped off. If you stayed to the end; then you simply got raped, and I feel sorry for you. I also felt sorry for the other actors that appeared in this POS; for about like 5 seconds. These characters simply cannot carry a movie. Hence please, do yourself a favor, and don't waste your time with this overrated trash. It's beyond me how this could even be loosely considered entertainment. I know this will get lost and sink to the bottomless pit of useless IMDb reviews; but I'm sick and tired of hearing that Smith's a genius, that his movies are good and funny, that you don't get it, what's wrong with you, are you not normal?!, etc, etc, etc. The only thing I get is that he had this coming, and that he's a talentless hack whose only real talent is to hoax other stupid people into thinking he's a real and talented filmmaker; that's for sure. Nevertheless, I do admire him for that, alone. So bottomline WORST MOVIE EVER MADE!!! So much in fact, that this is a perfect example of how NOT to make a movie. And finally, this sorry excuse of a film is also childish, amateurish, boring, lame, uninspired, insipid, unenjoyable, bland, and pure torture! "},{"Title":"If you like clerks/chasing Amy don't watch this!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First i am not a Kevin smith fan.i saw clerks and chasing Amy and i loved them both.this sadly is nothing like this.i personally counted about 30 bad references/jokes.and there was another 5 times or so where if you didn't get/know that there was a joke there.the actors look right at the camera just in case you didn't know they where making a joke.the only thing i liked in it and it was will Ferrel and even he was pretty annoying.I give it 2 1/2 stars cause its not really my type of movie if you like satires,raunchy or cartoony comedies then you might like this.I just say skip this one and watch clerks or chasing may again. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob's Own Film","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob finally get a movie of their own. Even though I enjoy Kevin Smith's brand of humour (which certainly isn't for everyone), 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' does not match up to their previous works like 'Chasing Amy', 'Mallrats' or even 'Dogma'. The best parts of 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' are the 'Hollywood' sequences and the scene where the spandex clad women steal diamonds. This movie spoofily spins off Smith's earlier works (except 'Dogma') and it brilliantly parodies numerous Hollywood flicks. There are plenty of cameos where the actors are spoofing themselves. The first hour or so, is loaded with toilet humour but much of it is quite boring mostly because of Jason Mewes's poor acting. Kevin Smith, Ben Affleck and Will Ferrell are brilliant. Shannon Elizabeth is quite a treat as the sexy nerdy jewel thief who is voluptuously supported by lesbian sidekicks played hilariously by Eliza Dushku and Ali Larter. Needless to say, while the humour is crude, vulgar and slapstick, there's also plenty of satire. Obviously Kevin Smith has made this movie for people who loved his earlier works and even though 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' does not hold a candle to them, it offers plenty for laughs. "},{"Title":"Really, really, really funny","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith is considered as one of the most greatest directors because he was known for giving us the independent film, Clerks.In 2001, he released a movie with the character's, Jay, Silent Bob, and other character's from his past films.This film is really funny from start to finish because Jay alway's swears and Silent Bob is always making funny hand motions. It also has some good and funny acting and the movie has some celebrities making cameos like Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, and Mark Hamil.The problem I have with the movie is that the movie's humor can get pretty boring at time's.Overall, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, is a funny movie and you will laugh a lot as you watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's big main characters go to Hollywood road movie","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I got from the mail last week the 2-disc set of both Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and Dogma. I was really excited with this one and while it didn't turn out to be a Kevin Smith movie that I would like to re-visit, it did have some truly genius moments. Not a disappointment, to be clear. I saw it last night by myself, and at some point my cousin walked in the living room. He had never seen any Kevin Smith movie and saw a scene that was totally unrelated with our main characters Jay and Silent Bob. I mean, sure every scene here is related with them but what my cousin saw was a scene that could be from any parody of an action movie. He even said to me so it's one of those movies, referring to the not very clever kind of parody movies. But I said to him, it's really about other really funny characters. And is all clichd certainly, that's the idea since the beginning with the big our main characters are GOING TO Hollywood kind of thing. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is sometimes a real mess, and by that I just mean that it is a not very funny movie. It's the over-the-top kind of thing that becomes really ridiculous instead of just plain f****** hilarious. But the other times, this movie is plain f****** hilarious and clever. And it's really stuff that is a must for anyone who has enjoyed the other Kevin Smith movies. We have Jay and Silent Bob, so there are really great laughs indeed. On the other hand, we have the cameos of people like George Carlin, Wes Craven, Matt Damon, Mark Hamill and Gus Van Sant. It's clever stuff. And, for example, the Gus Van Sant cameo is enough for me to call this worth watching material, as the cameo is as plain hilarious as surprising. I just love when you find guys like Van Sant or Craven playing the game. And here you'll find lots of this. Thankfully. So, this is Kevin Smith doing just about everything he wanted to, from having the band The Time playing, kicking the asses of angry nerds (who threw s*** on the Internet to Jay and Silent Bob) to have Ben Affleck as himself after having Ben Affleck as Holden talking about Ben Affleck. Worth watching, like I said. "},{"Title":"I laughed quite a bit, once even at Will Ferrell!","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Kev indulged himself - and for the first time not at the dinner table - by releasing a film that was basically a road movie featuring cameos from every famous actor that he had ever met or worked with.Jay & Silent Bob at the essence is stupid comedy, no orifice is left unturned, no joke too low, no potty talk too filthy and no bodily function ignored.But stupid comedy is rarely this funny.The plot Jay and Silent Bob had a comic-book based on their lives. The comic-book was turned into a film without their knowledge or consent, so Jay and Silent Bob decide to forego any potential cash from the project in favour of canning the thing entirely. Rather than make a phone call or send an email they decide to set off from one coast of the United States to the other.There are gay jokes / poo jokes / clit jokes / d*ck jokes / fart jokes / masturbation jokes and more, including much mugging towards camera and plenty of in-jokes for Smith fans.For Smith there are internet jokes / a Star Wars rip off sequence / a billion pop culture references / and a monkey...There are cameos galore George Carlin / Carrie Fisher / Mark Hamill / Ben Affleck & Matt Damon (& Gus Van Sant) / John Stewart / Jason Biggs & James Van Der Beek / Judd Nelson / Diedrich Bader / Tracey Morgan / Sean William Scott / Wes Craven & Shannon Doherty / Chris Rock / and Will Ferrell... The best laughs from the cameos? Bader (Oh what a lovely tea party) and Damon / Affleck / Van Sant in the Good Will Hunting sequel (Applesauce bitch!).And if you don't understand it all there are three hotties in tight outfits... and Kevin Smith's missus who tags along with them (sorry Kev).I think it is more a by-product of making a film with a massive cast but this film has the best performances by Sean William Scott, Ferrell, Morgan and Chris Rock in many years, only because none is asked to be on screen for more than 20 minutes at most, as they are all equally tiresome when you realize that their initial shtick is all that they have. Ferrell has already started to feel the backlash at his tired antics, Chris Rock hasn't been a draw for... ever aside from stand up and Morgan's drop is rapidly approaching.Ask Kevin himself, he cast Morgan in Cop Out and said Action which helped me prove just that.Final Rating - 7 / 10. More a series of random encounters with famous people peppered with jokes than a film. But I have to admit I laughed quite a bit, once at Ferrell! "},{"Title":"So disappointing.","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love Kevin Smith films; I'm really a huge fan, but I found this almost unbearable to watch. Clerks, Dogma and (sort of) Clerks 2 are among my favourite films, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is simply a bad film.The film lacks any of the humour that made other Smith films brilliant, instead replacing it with hilarious puns, scatological humour and a monkey. The choice of actors was decent, excluding Shannon Elizabeth (why?), and I'll admit there were a few moments which made me crack up, but overall I was disappointed. Jay and Bob are only funny in small doses, which is partly why the previous View Askew films were so good.I give the film 4/10 just for the scenes with Chris Rock, Ben Affleck & Matt Damon, George Carlin and Mark Hamill. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but could have been funnier and better","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not amazed that people enjoy this -- there's always been a market for lowbrow entertainment with a sheer poverty of imagination (as opposed to lowbrow entertainment which really soars); Jay and Silent Bob is soulless comedy, almost entirely devoid of wit. Comedy without heart and wit gets trotted out anew for each generation, so maybe one can forgive thirteen year olds who don't realize that this sort of pairing. The film in general isn't funny. From the very beginning it sets the tone when the audience sees Jay and Silent Bob as children to the present day. The film really isn't all that funny. It relies more on crude and sexual humour to get laughs. Not clever, witty type humour. And the F-bombs from Jay got real annoying, along with the other cast members. Though it was pretty entertaining and fun seeing what trouble they were getting in, also how they would escape. It was a good adventure film, not a good comedy film- in the sense IMO. There were many characters to the film. Some were just for cameos, others for actual screen time. I enjoyed Will Ferrll's and Chris Rock's character. The others I didn't really care much about "},{"Title":"What was Kevin Smith thinking?","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are only two reasons I can think of for why Kevin Smith made this movie. The first is to make Jay and Silent Bob the leading characters rather than supporting ones. The other is to bring back many of the characters from his previous movies.He does just those two things. He brings back many characters from his previous movies including Dante and Randal from Clerks, Brodie from Mallrats, and Holden, Banky, Alyssa, and Hooper from Chasing Amy.Jay and Silent Bob find out from Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck reprising his role from Chasing Amy) that Bluntman and Chronic, based off of Jay and Silent Bob's likeness, is being made into a movie. When they find out that people on internet blogs are bashing them, they decide to go to Los Angeles to stop this movie from being made.This movie has a lot of vulgarity, little substance in the story, and is mostly stupid. It was nice to see some familiar faces return to Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse, but it felt like Smith just decided to throw a bunch of famous actors in this movie. I will give Smith credit for answering what happened to Jay and Silent Bob and the monkey from Mallrats. This is worth renting at least once if you are a fan of Kevin Smith. "}{"Title":"On and off","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While JAY... is not as funny or cohesive as some of Kevin Smith's previous films, it's still worth a look for the nonstop, hysterical profanity and movie sendups, including of THE FUGITIVE, CHARLIE'S ANGELS and STAR WARS. The boys are on their way to Hollwyood to scuttle a film being made about their lives, but from which they will not be profiting. Along the way, they pick up a baby orangutan when they release animals from a lab. With the orangutan in tow, they become the Three Stooges of stoner humor. Many, many familiar faces show up in big and small roles, including Will Ferrell as a hapless federal wildlife official trying to recover the orangutan and Carrie Fisher as a nun, of all things. Directors Wes Craven an Gus Van Sant make brief appearances, God knows why. Matt Damon and Ben Affleck play themselves as a couple of preening imbeciles shooting GOOD WILL HUNTING 2, in which Damon makes like Rambo. Jason Biggs and James Van der Beek play the Hollywood version of our intrepid duo, called Bluntman and Chronic, and Mark Hamill has a funny bit as a supervillain in that bizarre movie. Miramax, which released JAY, takes a wicked and perhaps deserved beating. If one bit doesn't have you laughing. another one surely will. One of my favorites has a dipstick TV entertainment reporter talking about Jay and Bob as missing fugitives (don't ask) while they caper behind her. There's also a cute bit that has the fetching, leather-clad Ali Larter as a sexy jewel thief (and looking like a Charlie's Angel) passing gas. Loudly. And oh, Bob finally speaks! "},{"Title":"Honest stoner fun","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Generally you can have a lot of fun with this movie, if you manage to steer around some rather awkward, lame in-jokes. Sometimes that's a difficult task though, we're talking about a movie here that involves Ben Affleck's character saying he likes Ben Affleck. Lazyness at work. And of course the mother of unfunny in-jokes comes by too, some character saying it's like he's in a bad movie. And then staring directly at the camera. It wasn't funny a thousand years ago, why would it be funny now? There are times in which Kevin Smith should really just know better, but I should add that most of the movie is in fact really cool. There are some great lines in there, and this doesn't mean much but storywise this is Smith's most laid-back movie. It's right there in the middle between the total nihilism of Clerks./Mallrats and the actual plots in Chasing Amy, to name one. They do stuff and go places, but really there's still like nothing happening, I really like that. This movie is a fun way to completely waste an evening. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith A Comic Genius","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being a huge fan of Kevin Smith since discovering his hilarious Smodcast, I had high expectations coming into this film. However, I was initially put off by Silent Bob's cartoonish stylised character. As the film continued however, I felt better connected to Silent Bob and alienated from Jay. Ridiculous as the story may be, its direction accepts this and often pokes fun at the viewer for watching such 'trash.' This helps viewers assimilate to te film and adds a new dimension to its linear narrative. One of the greatest attributes in the film is the number of fantastic cameoes throughout the film, including Chris Rock, Jon Stewart, Jason Lee, Seann William Scott and Ben Affleck. Although all of these characters receive limited screen time, their inclusion brings an extra life and extra level of humour to the film.Highly underrated as a film, its unique sense of humour makes for an enjoyable viewing experience. Having not watched any of the other Jersey film series, I will now look forward to the remainder of the series, albeit it be in the wrong order.www.flogfilm.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Smith scores again, even though his character is still a schmuck.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are back in a, somewhat, sequel to the cult classic Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy as the two-bit dope dealers who find out their getting ripped off for their image likeness in a popular comic book, now being made into a movie, so they decide to hit the road to Hollywood.Kevin Smith is a genius! He can take a couple of characters, put them into a stupid moment, and, not only make a movie out of it, but he can actually find people to take part in it, step out of character, then step back INTO the characters, and make ANOTHER movie (or two) about it. His ability to create such a movie can either leave you in stitches, or wish someone had cut his guts out. I will grant you it's stupid comedy, but it IS funny, and anyone who watches this and takes it for the comedic substance, should find this movie quite entertaining. But if you're just looking for something to lighten the mood, this movie is NOT for you! 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Watch out for stars","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Recap Jay and Silent Bob discover that the comic based upon them is being turned into a movie. That means, a lot of cash is owed them. So all they have to do is to go to Hollywood and stop the movie until they get paid. But it is not to be an entirely uneventful journey...Comments This is rather complicated. Or not. The story is banal and not very good at all. But forget the story, that is not (for once) what is important in the movie. The best part is the cavalcade of stars and their characters that appears throughout this movie. That and the numerous jokes at their own expense, very entertaining.This really is a big reality check, a great joke at the expense of the movie industry and stars. And it is done for our benefit. An entire movie with tongue-in-cheek humor. Actually hard to do well, but Kevin Smith and his collaborators have done well. Very well.So, try to forget the story, it is nothing. Enjoy the characters and the parody it is! 7/10 "},{"Title":"As good as it could have ever been","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Jay and Silent Bob movie was always going to be extremely hard to pull off. The characters worked so brilliantly as supporting characters in Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Dogma, but even when given significant screen time in Mallrats they kind of outstayed their welcome. Silent Bob is alright but Jay's schoolboy humor works fine in small doses but include too much of it and it just makes the film too generally juvenile and ludicrous to take seriously (which, on some level, Mallrats wanted to be). How do you side-step this problem when making the big Jay and Silent Bob flick? You make the whole thing completely ludicrous. Not a hint of the intelligent scripts Dogma and Chasing Amy had here, just a deliberately ludicrous plot and plenty of dick and fart jokes.So, is this any good? Surprisingly, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is fairly entertaining throughout with some scenes standing out as hopelessly bad (Mooby's, Shannon Elizabeth, and Mewes= lethal combination, not in a good way) and some working pretty well. No comment on the plot, it's pretty wacky but it works fine I guess, with Will Ferrell and the always good and always gorgeous Eliza Dushku shining in the ensemble.Kevin Smith's highest-budgeted film to date by some margin, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back goes for the mass appeal, and while it is significantly worse than Dogma, Chasing Amy, or Clerks (thus far the only really good films Smith has made) it is not the huge misfire Mallrats was and doesn't for a second waste time on hopelessly sappy moments like Jersey Girl and Clerks II did.The best portion of the film comes towards the end as Jay and Silent Bob arrive in Hollywood. I didn't stop giggling at the Gus Van Sant cameo for a long time. Basically, this portion of the film is a bunch of self-referential gags aimed mostly at Smith's fanbase. Being 'in the know' helps. All in all this is as good as it was ever going to be. We do, of course, get 90+ minutes mostly comprised of juvenile humor and if that works for you great, but I found it tiresome in spots. Still, this is watchable and never as frustrating as Smith's weaker films like Clerks II, Mallrats, and Jersey Girl.6/10 "},{"Title":"Weak, But Decent.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What I really like about Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back are the in-jokes about precisely how Jay and Silent Bob aren't characters cut out to be leading men in their own movie. They are right.Jay and Bob have functioned brilliantly as the supporting characters in previous Kevin Smith movies. When given the leading roles, they manage to be funny but they also manage to overdo it.Jay (Jason Mewes) is a character I like, however, of all the movies he's been in, I like him the least in this one and it's mostly because he doesn't work as a leading man. He was very good in Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy (that one scene) and Dogma. But in this one, his humor got tiring and got a little repetitive. It's a good thing that in Clerks II he returned to the supporting part and was as great as I remembered.Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) is such a fun character for a guy who says so little. In Clerks he was like Jay's shadow, he was very introverted and hardly given a personality. In Mallrats the new Silent Bob was born, the lovable guy who was more extroverted and way funnier. This version was seen again in Chasing Amy and Dogma. In this movie, he's my favorite character. Like I said, Jay's humor got a bit repetitive, but it's a good thing that The Bob was there to even it out.The supporting characters are a laugh riot. Cameos everywhere featuring Shannen Doherty, Wes Craven, Carrie Fisher and more. My favorites would have to be Ben Affleck and Matt Damon playing themselves in one of the funniest parts of the movie. Chris Rock was very funny and Mark Hamill was hilarious as well.Overall, a weak but decent movie. It's not as entertaining as Smith's previous efforts but it does manage to have some very funny parts and a bunch of fun characters. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie that  doesn't take itself to seriously.","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. The movie that was originally meant to be the closing of the The Askewniverse. This movie would definitely have been a great way to end the series, (But I'm really glad they didn't). As Kevin Smith has stated himself, this is basically one of the biggest cult movies of all time, because it contains references to every other movie he ever directed. The references are all really awesome, and some of the high points of the movie, as are the scenes containing certain celebrities playing themselves. I won't say any more on that subject, because I don't want to give anything away. It would definitely be better for you to watch the previous View Askew movies before this one. The others being Clerks., Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. It's not like that should be a big deal, seeing as they are all awesome movies. I will admit to this, I saw this movie before I watched the other movies. To be honest, I still enjoyed the movie a whole lot. So I would say it can be enjoyable in many ways on its own, but I will also say this- The second time I watched the movie, which was after seeing the others, this movie went from being a pretty funny comedy to being one of my favourite movies.It's a crazy storyline fitting for Jay and Silent Bob. I guess you could sort of compare the whole movie to their scenes in Mallrats. Monkeys, sexy girls and Will Ferrell... what more could you want from a movie like this? Don't watch the movie if you're looking for something like Chasing Amy, as this movie differs from it in many ways. Actually, on second thought scratch that. You should watch it, because even though it is different, it's still awesome on many different levels. It's not a serious movie in any sense of the word. It's just a whole lot of fun.Jay and Silent Bob are great characters, and though only seen in small doses in previous movies, (save for Dogma) they are able to make do as the main characters with flying colours. I don't really know what else to say, except that the jokes are awesome, it has great references to its own universe and basically the film industry as a whole, and it's full of more awesome celebrity appearances than you can poke a stick at. Awesome movie, and one I can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Absurdity at its best","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is absurdity at its best. Jay and Silent Bob played by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith (also the director) respectively sets out to invade Hollywood and boycott a film being made about their life story 'Bluntman and Chronic'.The first film that introduced me to Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse an interconnected series of films that is directed by Smith. Other notable films are Dogma, Mallrats, Clerks., Clerks II and Chasing Amy. I have not seen the mentioned films above, will plan to sometime soon.The script was just plain absurd. The F word was used 228 times and its mostly said by Jay. Its absurdity will make you laugh most of the time. But sometimes it just gets on your nerve and say Dude, that wasn't funny. Expect surprise appearances by notable Hollywood stars and directors like Jon Stewart, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill (Kevin Smith is a big Star Wars fan) Its Harold and Kumar and Cheech and Chong combined. If you want stupid jokes, toilet humor and bongs this one is for you snoogens.6/10 "},{"Title":"Lowbrow to the extreme and way too self indulgent sometimes, but very amusing.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most of the beginning is almost a recap of Kevin Smith's career so far, and it comes off as amazingly self indulgent, starting with Dante (Brian O'Hallaran) and Randal (Jeff Anderson) in the Quick Stop from Clerks, and then moving to Brodie (Jason Lee) of Mallrats, where one of the lines that was lazily thrown in was 'would you like a chocolate covered pretzel?', they then progress further to re-meet Holden (Ben Affleck) of Chasing Amy. For some reason it was fairly easy on Dogma references, the only reference to it I can think of being '...passed down by god herself...' I thought this film would be mostly terrible, but it wasn't at all, the self-loving brings it down, but Jay And Silent Bob are great as usual, the plot is throwaway, and could be replaced with anything to just make Jay and Bob run around, but not too many complaints about it. Any references to previous View Askew films later on in the film, were scattered around well enough to not make them cringe-worthy, although it's too heavy on them right at the end. One thing I really disliked about the film, although I forgive it is Jason Mewes' fart near the beginning of the movie, that was the most cringe-worthy thing to do with Kevin Smith ever, and not because of the vulgarity, like I'd cringe at 'it was like sticking my dick in battery acid', because of the sheer thoughtlessness of it, I can forgive it though as in the commentary Kevin Smith admitted to it being his least favourite shot in anything he's ever done, although he did also say he was proud of the fart joke with Ali Larter, which was something I definitely could've done without in the film. Smith took a risk by returning to his low-brow roots of Mallrats (and taking it further), after doing the more thoughtful (for his standards) Dogma and Chasing Amy, he also took a risk by putting Will Ferrel in a semi-major role in the film, many Smith fans may dislike his inclusion, but me personally, I enjoyed his performance a lot, despite not really being a fan. Could've been an 8/10 without all the self indulgent rubbish. Smith denies sitting at home thinking 'I am a f**king comic genius' on his DVD An Evening With Kevin Smith 2, but I'm not so sure. So I took this time to address all the negatives about this film, what about all the positives? The positives of this film were...everything else I hadn't mentioned! I was expecting a return to low brow humour and was expecting a lot worse. Was the worst of the VA films but after Clerks 2, he is back on form. I rate it a safe 7/10 "}{"Title":"Not a laughing matter.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very clich, absolutely unoriginal movie that was a waste of time that could have been spent on something else. I can't even recall a moment when I laughed, yet this is supposed to be funny.Even with the use of cameo roles the plot and jokes were just a total and utter disaster as there was not one ounce of the unexpected, no surprises...just very bland.I really don't understand one bit what people see in this film. Yet movies such THE BURBS for instance are so underrated, even know they have quality clean humour.Wow a couple of pothead stoners who go on a road trip. It's like a real cheap rip of Dumb and Dumber. That was actually quite funny. A couple of idiots that made u laugh. "},{"Title":"Hellzapoppin for slackers","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith's brilliant post-modern stoner comedy is like Hellzapoppin remade for the Millennium only about a trillion times more foul-mouthed, X-rated and a lot, lot funnier. A road-movie of sorts, it finds Jay, (Jason Mewes), and Silent Bob, (Smith), heading in the direction of Hollywood in order to stop the movie that is being made of the comic-strip which they inspired and in typical post-modern fashion it references movies left, right and centre but mainly within the memory span of its aimed for teenage audience, (late teenage audience, the language and sexual jokes putting it well beyond anyone under 18).The likes of Ben Affleck and Matt Damon and countless others are more than happy to send themselves up something rotten and everyone seems to be having a good time. The proliferation of gay gags may be a worrying trend, (most of the jokes seems to be about guys giving as well as receiving blow-jobs). Maybe not this may be as daring as Smith gets. At least the gags have a kind of slap-happy innocence about them. Crude, yes and very but offensive only to the most narrow-minded surely. And it has cult status written all over it. "},{"Title":"A very funny satire to Hollywood","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When this movie was going to be released in Argentina(the country where I was born and where I live),I really wanted to see it,because it was going to be the first time Kevin Smith made a satire.Jay and Silent Bob strike back is a great satire to Hollywood.I could not stop laughing with this satire(for example,the moment in the set of Good will Hunting 2 is simply hilarious).The people who know every character since Clerks(like me),will enjoy it more because a lot of jokes are related with that previous films.Jay and Silent Bob are my favorite characters and I enjoyed a lot seeing them as the main ones,something I was expecting from a long time.The dialogs are another great thingsthey are not as brilliant as the ones which appeared in Clerks or Chasing Amy,but they are great and pretty intelligent.Like I said before,people who know every character since Clerks will enjoy it more.But the other people will enjoy it a lot,too,because the satire this movie has is simply great.I totally recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What to do when a movie about your comic book alter-ego is gonna be shot and you don't get a cut $$$$$$??? wreck the entire production, that's what. starting with how they meet, the f.uck the police song (more like anthem really), to I AM THE C.L.I.T. COMMANDER!, as well as Jay and Justice sitting in a tree, f-u-c-k-i-n-g, and Boo-Boo-Kitty-Fuck Jay and Silent Bob is full of memorable moments that will haunt you down forever!! Featuring Will Farrell, Seann William Scott (yes, yes..Stiffler), SHANNON ELIZABETH & ELIZA DUSHKU (should be enough to convince you to watch it ONLY because those two pieces of meat are in it), Ben Afflek, Matt Damon, Jason Lee, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith... definitely a MUST see for anyone who likes having a good time...and laughing their asses of. "},{"Title":"This movie is Awesome","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob strikes back is a movie for the whole world to enjoy and love...its basic idea being them to stop a movie based on them so people on the internet cant insult them. This is easily the best film that Jay and Silent Bob have been in. its a laugh a minute full of jokes, insults and even quite a fascinating scene with women in tight latex. this movie is not for the average day church goer there is copious amounts of swearing but all in the art of fun P. i've gotta admit i watch this movie on a regular basis, i love it, everyone else should love it to. who'd of ever thought a movie about two stoner punks swearing and going on a pointless voyage would be so damn good!Jay and Silent Bob are the Masters! - A MUST WATCH!Brown Gives 10/10 xx "},{"Title":"For View Askew fans only... But very very funny if you are","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a long time since I saw Clerks but I still remember the feeling I had when I saw it. It was essentially one of hope. Clerks is excellent but under it all is a undercurrent of promise that Smith will return with a bigger budget, better actors and a more accomplished directorial flair to create his masterwork. That Clerks is still his best film provokes a feeling of disappointment in me. Mallrats was a bit rubbish and while Dogma and in particular Chassing Amy had some strokes of genius they didn't provide the emotional sucker punch of Clerks to go with the belly laughs.And that's my problem with Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back Still not Smith's master work. It is however very very funny. You remember the bit in Dogma when Jay & Bob are on the train and you can overhear them talking to Loci about the bit in Mallrats? Well this film is basically those kind of in-jokes from start to finish. The film requires not only that you have seen all of Smith's earlier films, but that you have seen them multiple time and regularly say THIRTY-SEVEN!!! to your friends when you are surprised. Witness people asking Dante Are you even supposed to be hear today? and so on. If you know Smith's work you will howl. But other than the in-jokes there's really nothing much to sink your teeth into. In the opinion of this reviewer Will Ferrel is simply not funny. I was enraptured to hear later that Simth had left about 70% of Ferrel's performance on the cutting-room floor. There is still too much of his gawking stupidity which wouldn't be so bad if he didn't commit the cardinal sin of not been funny when he's supposed to be the comic relief.The plot, while not important contrives the eponymous characters going on a road trip to Hollywood to stop production of the Blunt Man and Chronic film. This after Ben Affleck shows them all the mean stuff people had been saying about them and... no I won't tell you because the scene where Affleck shows Jay and Bob the internet is one of the best scenes.The other thing that made this film for me was all the cameos. Carrie Fisher turns up as a nun (complete with buddy Christ on her dash-board) Silent Bob has a light sabre fight with Mark Hammil (usually such obvious self-indulgence would annoy me, especially with regard to Star Wars, but hey it's really Mark Hammil) Gus Van Saint appears as the money-counting uber-hack director of Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season; Was Craven shows up directing his latest Scream cash-in; Even Chris Rock appears as a Black director only to give the best line in the film.So get some friends round, drink some beers, shmoke some weed and enjoy Kevin Smith apparently closing the book on his beloved View Askunivers. "},{"Title":"It says a lot about your sense of humor if you can make fun of yourself; and this movie does just that","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" while it's not as funny as clerks, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a funny piece of work that shows that making fun of yourself can prove you have a sense of humor. The 'plot' (If you could call it that) is that Jay and Silent Bob are given a restraining order due to their actions while standing around the quick stop all day. While trying to find a new place they find out they haven't been payed for a movie being based off a comic that is at the same time based off them. After learning about the internet, they hear lots of people bad mouthing them and their movie. So they try to head to Hollywood to stop the movie from being made. Along the way, they make so many attacks on Hollywood, as well as well known characters, and best of all, well known actors and comedians appear as themselves (Or at least reference themselves as a separate character) and take a s*** all over themselves. One of my personal favorites is when they are in Hollywood, they are looking for a monkey that was taken too Hollywood to be an actor (That they were keeping because Jay was under the impression a girl he met, who wanted to 'liberate' the monkey, was blown up, so he wanted to keep the monkey as a reminder of her) and they end up on the set of another scream movie. When she unmasks the villain, it is the monkey, and she walks over to Wes Craven and tells him 'Wes, what's happening!? Your not even trying anymore!' 'Well, everyones gonna love the monkey!' and Jay and Silent Bob come in and say 'We LOVE the monkey (While taking it)' and then Craven says 'See?' It's not perfect, but it's unique, and while it is extremely crude (And in many places, very stupid, but it was meant to be) it has a very intelligent form of humor (Beleive it or not!) Because what better way to take a s*** on Hollywood than to have The actors of Hollywood take a s*** on themselves? "},{"Title":"Hilarious Film!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for nonstop crude and sexual humor, pervasive strong language, and drug content. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating18A(should be 14A)Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the first Jay and Silent Bob/Kevin Smith movie I have seen.Besides this film I have seen Clerks,Mallrats and Chasing Amy.This film isn't as good as Chasing Amy or Clerks but it is a fairly funny and good film.There are plenty of hilarious scenes in this film.I have not seen this movie in years so I don't really remember it.But I do know that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a very funny film that is recommended for any Kevin Smith fan.Runtime104min 9/10 "},{"Title":"great comedy","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a pure comedy, not meant to be taken seriously on any level. The events of the film take place in Jay and Silent Bob's own personal dimension, so those expecting anything more than a total goof of a comedy may be disappointed. You'd expect a movie centering around these two characters would mostly involve a lot of weed, d*ck, and fart jokes. Those expectations are heartily met and then some. Those unfamiliar with Smith's other films may miss some of the gags here, but the comedy is so broad it still maintains appeal to those viewers. Tons of cameos and guest stars, most of whom are actually funny. Based on his limited roles in the past, Jason Mewes deserves kudos for really carrying this movie, he outdoes himself with his completely over the top portrayal of Jay. "},{"Title":"Crude but funny","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick and fart jokes - crude but funny. I for one think the characters of Jay and Silent Bob are sheer genius. People take movies, life, and themselves too damn seriously. The crude and honest humor of Kevin Smith's movies is what most people my age consider real. If you don't like it, don't see it. Most people who are not extremely uptight should like this movie. I for one can not wait to see Clerks II this summer......Big time film critics rave over movies like The Piano, and Memoirs of a Geisha. To most of the country's population that is in the 20-40 age range this is some real crap that could have never been produced. Smith's movies look into real gen-x type stuff and it is never heavy. Always light, enjoyable, and funny. If you thump the bible too much, you should not see his movies. I consider anything that makes me laugh well worth the time it takes to watch it, and Jay and Silent Bob definitely make me laugh. "}{"Title":"The Review Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Probably one of the only movies I have laughed all the way through, without feeling completely fine with karma, and I loved it! Funny, offensive, and creative full of great jokes such as the Nun and the 'Rules' and Scooby-Doo. I'm not going to give anything away (like there's anything anyway), but...you now what? Just rent it. It's not Kevin's best work, but it's worth a few watchings.Not for those who are offended easily. But gaw! What a film!(For fans imagine this Jay falling n love with a girl - but for her, not her body! Expect a lot more than that!!)Highly recommended to fans. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about two intoxicated guys trying to stop a film about themselves from production. I so wish that the production of this very film was stopped.Throughout the whole film, the viewers are inundated with toilet humour, gay jokes (which are not funny), sexist jokes, brainless and aimless conversations and occasionally insulting remarks. The movie spoofs were not funny. The references to the films of the same studio were so abundant that I felt I was watching an extended commercial of the films.Here are some real gems from the film (words to that effect) I didn't know women don't want to be called bitch - ah, what an enlightenment.Why do people bother watching this film? - Well said.The Internet is for the Americans to voice their opinions - so the Internet is only for American use.We are a gay couple and our adopted son is an orangutan - an outrageous and defaming idea, but not as bad as the reply to the above sentence which goes The best of wishes to your unorthodox but constitutionally protected familyWhat has the world come to? Are we really supposed to be entertained by films like this? What kind of message are we telling our children? People are complaining that Brokeback Mountain is corrupting our moral values. Where were they when this film was released?I am shocked to see so many big name stars to star in this film. Why did they risk their career to star in such a film? "},{"Title":"Love Them Dick and Fart Jokes","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best movie ever. Being I am a Kevin Smith fan speak for yourself but if you think this movie is awful than your either gay or serious. This movie even involves a monkey. Question 1 Did Brokeback Mountain have a monkey? No thats why it sucks.Question 2  Did planet of the Apes have a monkey? Yes Question 3 Did Star wars have a monkey? It had Yoda. Question 4 Are you busy Friday... oh wait Anyway This movie is packed with stars and stoner's. Plus Eliza Dushku is in it. ( She is in Buffy). I think that it is one of Will Farrel's Best moves. Scooby Doo Guest Stars. Jay almost has sex with a nun and has sex with a chick in a car. Jay has one of those Demon Vs Angel moments, it talks about every other view askew movie. How much better can it get.Viva View askew "},{"Title":"You should see THIS","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's one of the best films,i've ever seen. I can say that it's not for everyone,because film is a little idiotic but that's the reason why I like it,why it's so funny and cool. I think acting is close to perfect,especially Jay and Bob and Jay's Rap in the beginning is very cool and funny.Maybe it's the only reason why I gave this film a try.And one more thing that amazes me is the presence of some actors that,in my opinion,are too serious for such a movie. For example Ben Affleck,Matt Damon,Jason Lee,Eliza Dushku,Seann William Scottand some others.In the end I can say that this movie is must see for everyone who has good sense of humour and who wants to find the way to spend one hour and a half in gaiety and merriment "},{"Title":"I so loved the movie","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was the first movie I seen with Kevin smith and Jason Mewes. It made me fall in love with the character Jay. I am such a fan I went right out and bought or rented any and all the movies they have done. I even keep the new movies on my list to watch and when they come out I see them as fast as I can. Keep up the great work Kevin. and Jay stay strong man you can do it. I know I have been watching your career and all the struggles you are going thru. Kevin is so great at making these great movies. I know Jersey girl was way on the other side of Jay and silent bob, but it showed everyone he isn't just about making comedy's. He is a very talented person. Great job guys. Whooooo Hooooo! "},{"Title":"It won't change your life, but if you want laugh after laugh non stop, this is the movie for you!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is great to see Jay and Silent Bob graduate from supporting players in the other Kevin Smith movies to leading men! They are hilarious, and certainly funny enough to carry a movie. Many in jokes are included, and unless you have seen other Kevin Smith films, as well as the American Pie movies, and so many other films, you might not understand all the gags, but even if you don't the explicit gags are orchestrated so well that they easily compensate for the confusing implicit ones. Jason Mewes has real star potential, and I actually hope he makes a career out of performing, because he is just so good at it! He carries this film on the strength of his performance! "},{"Title":"Was good while it lasted, but let it rest now!","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Finally Jay and Silent Bob get their own movie! After four movies as supporting secondary characters (that normally stole the show), now they emerge to be the centre of their own story.The joke has gone too far, descending into self-parody (to the extent of winking at the camera &#x96; always the sign of an attempt at ironic self-awareness) and excessive expletives. Replete with what it considers 'movie in-jokes' and extremely liberal use of the 'F-word' and other more imaginative swearing. The simple plot revolves around the eponymous duo's journey to Hollywood to prevent a movie being made based on their lives, and the adventures they have on the way across the USA. But instead of putting effort into plot, everything goes into creating ways of crowbarring in as many star cameos and movie references as possible. For a film rated 18, its juvenile nature is quite staggering. Whereas Dogma and Clerks were extremely original in their aim, Jay and Silent Bob is crude and generally aimless beyond boobs and f-bombs.Yet there are a few laughs to be had from the numerous stars happy to poke fun at themselves, including Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Mark Hamill, Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek. The sheer volume of guest stars to spot almost makes the film worth watching on its own. And no doubt the target audience (15-18 year old boys, never mind the film being rated 18!) will enjoy the constant swearing and fart jokes, not to mention seeing Ali Larter, Eliza Dushku and Shannen Elizabeth in skin-tight PVC outfits.But please Kevin Smith, let your pride and joy creations that were once a welcome side-act rest. After this self-indulgence film, surely there is nowhere else Jay and Silent Bob can go. "},{"Title":"Sweet A$$ Movie","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is funny as hell if you don't believe me see it for yourself, well, if you like crude humor like myself. Jay's personality is so funny because he just doesn't give a f%#!. An outspoken crazy sort of thugged out white boy from Jersey is what his character is like. So, if you think sh*t like this is funny JAY - What the F%$# surfer cop? COP - I had a report about a couple of guys outside selling dope. JAY - We don't smoke pot yo! COP - No pot huh? What are these for(ZIG-ZAGS)? JAY - I put that little piece of paper over my brown eye and bam, no more $h*t stains in my undies.YOU GOTTA SEE IT!!!! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Jay & Silent Bob - Return!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I kind of get the impression this was Kevin Smith's gift to all the loyal fans of Clerks(94), Mallrats(95) and Chasing Amy(97). Not so much Dogma - I know still a part of his New Jersey Trilogy, but that actually had an apocalyptic plot with characters outside the usual framework of Smith's stories. I'm sure Smith wanted to wrap up things for himself as well, but this is strictly for those who remember the 1st 3 pictures, with an intensity ranging from fondness (me) to fanaticism (who, them?). Not that it's not funny for strangers to the saga. It most resembles Mallrats - my personal favorite since it was the most plot less; the key was that you, the viewer, are just hanging out with the characters, who are essentially time-wasters and idiots, but remind you of yourself in your less than impressive moments. You're not just watching, as in an ordinary movie, you're involved with these slackers, especially if you can relate to all the super-hero references and movie homages. Also, if you don't mind the constant fart & sex joking, and the cussing. Yes, it's juvenile, but there is a lot of charm there, as well. Some may turn their noses up on the material but usually snicker to themselves when in private.Some of the humor is pretty inspired. You find out that Jay & Silent Bob didn't know anything about the Internet until an early scene in this movie; then you see they're unaware you have to pay for a bus ride. This is naivety taken to the nth degree, a commentary on someone who's never been out of a New Jersey area, I guess. So these two know-nothings, babes in the woods, embark on a Hobbit-like odyssey cross-country, an ultimate road-trip, if you will. And whatta cast. Smith brings back almost everyone from those first 3 movies, and adds in Ferrell as the stupidest cop, plus a few young actresses as lethal criminals. The picture moves along very quickly. Once in Hollywood, other familiar faces show up, notably Hamill as a super-villain (Smith can't get enuff Star Wars references in). There's a really amusing scene with Biggs & van der Beek, discussing the gay issue. Some of the actors play more than one character - you get to see Affleck in two roles, the one true abomination in an essentially inoffensive flic. I'm also curious as to how Smith talked Damon into this; it's refreshing in this day and age to see certain 'high-level' actors willing to make asses of themselves. The biggest role is by Mewes and he pulls it off. Again, all of this is less confusing if you've seen the earlier movies and you get to see Mewes evolve through this latest one. What, Mewes - evolve? Astonishing, I know. "},{"Title":"pure comedy, forgetful","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is all about the comedy. The problem with this film is that it is not memorable because it is so reliant on the comedy elements. While they were somewhat funny, the film cannot be an excellent film which is going to stay in the public eye, and it is going to date pretty quickly. The other problem with comedy films is that everyone has a different sense of humour, so you will either like the film or hate it...and it is really only there to make you laugh, which it does succeed in doing, but this does not make it a great film. If you enjoy the slightly immature sense of humour and are just wanting to laugh and spend a quiet evening relaxing, you will probably enjoy this. Otherwise, don't spend your time with it and don't expect anything else but to laugh. "}{"Title":"A very very funny movie... if you don't mind trashiness","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't know anything about Kevin Smith's Askewniverse when my friend started going crazy about this movie with a gorgeous guy called Jay and a really funny guy called Silent Bob. I am a lover of controversial humor so I really didn't need any persuasion to go ahead and watch it. My feelings? This is a brilliantly funny movie, even if you haven't watched the other K.S. movies (I haven't... yet). If you don't mind controversial, 20-something male humor (for the record - I'm a gal), wanna have a good time for an hour and a half and are not afraid to hear the word fuck 228 times, then do watch that movie. I was in stitches from beginning to end. If you need more of an incentive to watch it, guys, the gals are absolutely gorgeous, and gals, if you don't swoon over the gorgeous Jason Mewes, then that movie's not for you. Well... the bottom line is, I had a great time, and I hope you will too ;) "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has got to be one of the funniest films I have ever seen.I haven't watched many of Kevin Smith's movies. In fact, I only watched Dogma and this (in that order). I loved Dogma, so I expected good things from movie when I heard it features Jay and Silent Bob as the leading characters. But not even I expected this many laughs from this movie.I though this would be a regular comedy. A few laughs here and there, but nothing special. Turns out I was completely surprised, and in a good way. This movie delivers one hilarious joke after the other, constantly making fun of other movies, itself, and the movie industry in general, mingling it all with stoner humor, gay jokes and just lots of dirty comedy.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back has the makings of a regular comedy. But the addition of numerous parodies, cameos and the slight criticism of the movie industry make this an exceptional movie.And in the words of Jay Bong! "},{"Title":"Devastating wit & satire","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Joke. For all the stick at times this Is undeniably hysterical. The book gag Is about as highbrow as this gets - even that Is based around being as offensive as possible. I always thought It funny that In Smith's previous films whenever Jay & Bob are on screen you're wondering what the chubby guy actually does apart from guern a lot - only mastermind the whole thing.Jason Mewes' Jay Is In all fairness - a moron. Concisely described as a foul mouthed chuckle-head, with an unhealthy obsession for all things crude but he Is excellent. Chris Rock's character Is a nightmare, stealing the show for the few moments he's on. Interesting to see who he's based on as I'm sure these people do exist In the film world. Choice of women Is top notch - Shannon Elizabeth Is really rubbish In Scary Movie(difficult I know) In this she's perfectly fine. As for Eliza Dushku - mamma mia. Also good to see soft lad Cyril from Oz In a funny cameo how do you like THEM apples?and Breakfast Club anti-hero Judd Nelson pops up as a dummy gavva.People who slag Jay/S.Bob off are redundant as they are already dealt with, a pre-emptive put down, teenagers & guys who can't get laid check out the bit In the diner.. Anyone wanting to learn business sense should pay attention to the deal Jason Mewes proposes when dealing with the security guard. And I'll never think of a sociology project In the same way ever again. In terms of sheer Idiot comedy a classic. "},{"Title":"If you are a View Askew fan, you'll love it. If not, We don't give a damn.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is without a doubt, an homage to View Askew fans. But that doesn't mean you won't like it if you aren't one of the legions of fans.When this movie came out, I was ten years old. A friend of mine saw it, having not seen any of the previous View Askew movies. As soon as he saw it, he was singing it's praises for a month. As he reviewed the movie to me, I though to myself My parents are never going to allow me to watch this. Flash forward four years, and a friend of my mom's shows me Dogma. Loved it. When I told her that I wanted to see Strike Back, she said no, not until I watch the other four films. I did that, and loved it.This movie is vulgar, it is crass, it may offend you. But most likely, it will have you rolling on the floor laughing. Yes, it is a 30 million dollar monument to View Askew, but it's funny as Hell. "},{"Title":"good job!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" All tired political correctness is thankfully set aside while we enjoy a good hearty laugh! Jay n Silent Bob allow us to laugh at ourselves, others, Hollywood, themselves and everyone else in this light hearted comedy clearly directed at the heart of Hollywood's establishment, its disconnect with reality and it's inane lack of vision. While the fart, dick and gay puns would seem to have grown old long before this flick even went to production, nothing seems stale at all in the delivery, possibly due to the colorful cast loaded with entertaining and often surprising cameos. Gus makes a great joke of himself and the entire industry from his director's chair. Doherty slams Miramax even further. While all of the industry's protests pile throughout the movie, the lighthearted x-country romp never loses pace. "},{"Title":"Too Little Material for a Movie","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not hip anymore, if I ever was. But in my teens I sure was a dopey, foul-mouthed, slacker and relying on the memories of that experience I can understand the appeal of JSBSB. That squirrelly demographic surely has to be Ken Smith's target audience, he's sure not shooting for the Merchant/Ivory crowd. That said then, does he hit his intended targets?Yes, but not nearly enough of the time. What is essentially sketch comedy is forced into a (dumb) linear plot and stretched out far too long. Jay and Silent Bob could thrive within the confines of a 30-minute TV program, albeit it would have to be on cable. But trying to tell a movie-length story? Nope. There are some very funny bits, but plenty more time is spent on trying to establish a narrative arc that just isn't there. It didn't work. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't imagine a better movie made than this besides Dogma which is another favorite. No moral humor because there is no moral to the story besides if you have a comic book based on you and you are getting no money for it and you smoke pot you will end up having the same experience as Jay and Silent Bob.They are typical jersey boys who love weed.I also like the beginning song Jay sings.I am a fan of this movie and i differ on opinions from critics but critics ARE GAY!!!!this movie is stupid weed is bad blah blah blah blah...Get over it pot heads are here to stay and if you don't like it the shove it!!!! I don't want to get a bunch of letters from you saying I'm wrong if you do i will just block you!!!Now if you are a fan and want to write to me telling me you agree then go ahead and write cus then you aren't a little bitch who is a work-a-holic!!!!FRAT BOYZ FOR LIFE BITCH!!!!! "},{"Title":"Loved the high % of swearing but some bits smelled...","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wanted to like this movie cause I'm a Clerks fan and I love the grungy get-down-n-dirty swearing of Jay. But a few things are annoying... maybe cause Jay doesn't smoke enough dope and he seems too clear headed- and since the boys are the main 'men' here... it's as if Silent & Jay are trying too hard to make the plot have a real druggie dimension until it gets lost in its own reflection. Which is a pity... cause I wanted to like this movie- but nup!And this was one of those flix where perfection isn't necessary- there are lots of continuity gaffs that make the movie funny too -like when the four girls run out of the diamond exchange before they could have got those ugly high-heel shoes on, but they get into their car wearing shoes again- but this all added to my enjoyment.The main problem for me was the way Silent Bob twisted his face- so he's frowning or shrugging his shoulders in time to what Jay says- which becomes totally naff. The thing about Silent Bob is that he has the potential to be really funny if he does nothing. Still, one good thing was Bob's affair with the orangutan- it was very sweet- truly touching and believable. Sometimes the action gets a bit bogged down in all the stars who pop in and out of scenes- but I liked the Scooby Doo/ Josie & the Pussycat psychedelia in the van with Justice, Sissy, Missy & Chrissy. SO what went awry? Maybe they tried too hard to be funny? Not sure- but I won't watch it again- even to see that cute orangutan tonguing Bob. "},{"Title":"Sporadically Funny And Okay Entertainment, But Nothing More","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a sporadically funny film, that's okay entertainment, but nothing more. The main problem i had with this was, the lack of laughs , most of the time it failed to amuse me, however, i had an okay time watching this, as there are plenty of gorgeous women, and a cool story to keep you watching. Jason Mewes is quite annoying, and rather unfunny, however Kevin Smith is hilarious, and steals the show in my opinion. Ben Affleck was actually funny in his 2 roles, and i really liked some of the spoofs, especially the one with Jason Biggs and James Vandeerbeek. While this was okay entertainment, this really didn't do anything for me, while i say it's worth a rent, it's nothing special what so ever. The Direction is decent.Kevin Smith does a decent job here, keeping the film at a decent pace for the most part, and doing a solid job. The Acting is terrible, but some of it was fun to watch. Jason mews is terrible here, and found him very unfunny, he was too stupid for me, plus his character was annoying, he had great chemistry with Kevin Smith though. Kevin Smith is terrible here, he is unfunny and he is funnier then Mewes but that isn't saying much, I can't stand this guy. Ben Affleck is actually funny here, normally a terrible actor, he is quite funny here and was fun to watch in both his roles. Shannon Elizabeth is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and is fine here, with what she had to do, she was funny, and had decent chemistry with Mewes, but really all she need to be was eye candy and it worked VERY well!. Eliza Dushku is also STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS, and played her stuck up bitch part well!. Ali Larter is GORGEOUS, and did fine with what she had to do, which was not much. Will Ferrell is always a mixed bag to me, on one hand, he annoys the crap out of me on the other hand, he makes me laugh at times, here he is terribly unfunny, and totally over did it in my opinion.George Carlin,Judd Nelson,Carrie Fisher,Seann William Scott,Gus Van Sant,Chris Rock,Jamie Kennedy,Wes Craven,Shannen Doherty,Mark Hamill,Joey Lauren Adams,Alanis Morissette,Jason Biggs,Matt Damon,James Van Der Beek, all do good in there short roles/cameos. Overall worth a watch but not much more then that in my opinion. **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"That review stinks","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, look at this morose muthafucker here, posting anonymously.Ironic, the previous review slates people who post on websites about movies anonymously and then does so himself. And he's talking crap.Dogma is nowhere near Mr Smiths best film (which is a toss-up between Clerks and Chasing Amy). Jay And Silent Bob is a nerd movie for all those people who are Smith fans. Now, that includes me and I enjoy the movie but it is smug and self-satisfied, self-referential and so full of in-jokes that the neutral has no chance to enjoy it. It excludes at least half the population cos I have yet to meet a woman who laughed at it. As Smith says, it's basically a dick and fart movie and as such is OK, but a 10??? Come on, man, be real.And saying life is good for Jay and Bob?? Have you seen how they dress, people think they are stupid and laugh at them, they are being ripped off by friends, they have no money and think that farting is the height of sophistication? And life is good?Oh, and try throwing the thesaurus away and drop the annoying flowery language. And get a life if you think this is a 10.And no matter what Kevin says, if this is Jay & Bob's last appearance then I will eat a chocolate covered pretzel... see Clerks 2 next year.M "}{"Title":"funny movie","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When i first saw this movie i was in stitches in some of the scenes in this movie.The character Jay is a loudmouth stoner who can really make you laugh and Silent Bob of course is a silent guy who is Jay's best friend.Even at the beginning i was already laughing my head off especially when Jay starts rapping and singing Jungle Love.Some of the stars were quite a laugh such as Ben Affleck,Chris Rock and of course Mark Hamill.I wasn't a huge fan of Kevin Smith's movies but when i first saw Jay and Silent Bob on Dogma i thought they were really funny but once they made this it really hit the spot. This is a really funny movie if your into these types of movies but hopefully it should keep you laughing.I gave this 7/10 but still a good movie. In the words of Jay call me Darth Balls Bong! "},{"Title":"What the $*%@ is the Internet?!?","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To understand this movie you have to be a HUGE movie fan. Or at least a fan of other Kevin Smith movies. If haven't seen allot of movies, then most of the jokes will go right over your head. Check out Good Will Hunting, Scream, Planet of the apes, and many many others. Well heres my review As you might expect from a film carrying the title Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back, the film centers on those lovable stoner's who have popped up in all of Kevin Smith's movies to date. Unlike those movies, Jay and Bob are no longer just supporting characters, but now have the whole film to themselves. The gist of the plot is as follows. Jay and Silent Bob discover that Miramax pictures are making a live action adaptation of Bluntman and Chronic, the comic book heroes they form the character basis for (see Smith's Chasing Amy for further details). Around this time they also discover the Internet, or more specifically that the Internet has been used to roundly slate the upcoming film, and both the characters of Bluntman and Chronic.Nearly everyone who has appeared in a Smith movie return in a cameo, including Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Joey Lauren Adams, Renee Humphreys, Dwight Ewell, George Carlin, Chris Rock and even Shannen Doherty. There is also a huge cast of new characters, with some fine comedic performances from Will Ferrell, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek and Sean William Scott. The real star of the show is Jason Mewes, who manages to carry off the role of leading man quite admirably considering he's not a 'real' actor. He may be a foul-mouthed little smack head, but he also happens to be very amusing.Like all Kevin Smith movies this is very vulgar and not for everyone, but I gotta say I love it! "},{"Title":"Stupid, fun, crazy movie","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back(2001)-Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Shannon Elizibeth, Ali Larter, Eliza Dushku, Will Ferrell, Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Chris Rock, Mark Hammil, Deidrich Bader, Matt Damon, Sean William Scott and more.This film is just plain amusing, heres the full plot. Jay and Silent Bob get a restraining order put on them by the clerks(from Clerks) after making up a rumor about them. They go and tell Brodie(played by Lee from Mallrats) and he tells them that there is a movie based on them coming out and they need to go see Holden McNeil(Affleck from Chasing Amy) and he tells them to find Banky(also played by Lee from Chasing Amy). They go hitch a ride to Hollywood after learning tips from a hitchhiker(George Carlin). They get a ride with a nun(Carrie Fisher) and end up meeting a lovely girl(Shannon Elizibeth) and her friends and she tells them that she is an animal rights activast and are going to free animals so naturally they go. Sean William Scott plays a guy that travels with them and after saying he'd f##k a sheep is kicked out. The girls are actually diamond thieves....blah, blah, blah.......they see Affleck(In a double role) and Damon at a movie shoot.....blah, blah,blah......Chris Rock plays a racist movie director who directs their movie that has Mark Hammil as the bad guy. Also, Will Ferrell plays a wildlife protector that trys to kill the guys. Very silly with no plot, but is lots of fun with great appearances by many actors. My rating-2.75/4(Not as good as Clerks or Chasing Amy) "},{"Title":"How many ways to skin a cat?","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How many different ways to watch this movie? I have tried straight through, with director's commentary, with close captioning on, and close captioning with director's commentary. Then I did all these when I WASN'T baked. Awesome movie, awesome soundtrack, awesome writing, awesome, awesome, awesome. Went out and bought all the others so I could get yet a better understanding of this film. I suggest you do the same. Watching the close captioning helps to pick up on some subtleties that you miss because of the awesome soundtrack or because of the ambient noise in several scenes. The references to comics, cartoons, and even urban legends makes it even all the better to watch.  "},{"Title":"The end of all things?","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not the end to Kevin Smith's career, but one wonders if it truly is the end of Jay & Silent Bob.Well, after covering how Jay & Silent Bob met, they are issued with a restraining order by Randall the clerk and find out from Brodie (Jason Lee) that a film is being made based on the comic book that was based on them in Chasing Amy. They set out to destroy said film because they aren't making any money off it. Along the way, they encounter George Carlin, Jay tries to blow job Princess Leia/Carrie Fisher in a nun get up, Jay falls in love with Shannon Elizabeth, Scooby Doo look alikes are encountered, animals are somewhat abused, Will Ferrell is humiliated at every turn, Chris Rock insults Banky (also Jason Lee), Mark Hamill makes a funny cameo (Don't f*** with the Jedi Master, son.) and Jay & Silent Bob finally make their money.Lots of gags and pot shots ensue, and one must admit that Kevin Smith is as funny as they come, but the film does run a tad longer than necessary. Mostly for Smith fans. "},{"Title":"Of course I want to comment on this movie.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hell Yes! I love this movie and will always love this movie. The way I look at it, Kevin Smith is finally starting to get the mainstream recognition that he has always deserved.  I know that most cult fans of certain people always say that it takes away the edge.This time it didn't. Funny, well directed and Funny! Can't wait to see Jersey Girl. O.K. I've already seen it and I loved it What's next?  I'm positive it will be good. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike back 2001","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, for starters, Jay and Silent Bob are my favorite duet ever and they have been great in all their movies. But this movie had a bad plot, but that's ok because they make fun of that during the whole movie. If you were wondering about seeing this movie with your parents, forget it. The F word is used at least twice in every sentence, not to mention that their are so many sexual movements, luckily no nudity, like Jay pretending to have sex. But if you're a teen and you wanna see it with your friends, get it watchit, watch it again, because it is da bomb or off da hizzie as jay would say. lol. Also small parts by Chris Rock, George Carlin, Jason lee, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and many more was funny. The soundtrackis great too. Featuring Stroke 9 and Afroman. Check this movie out, i'm thinking about buying it. Love Nick "},{"Title":"I had a fun time.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Colorful and clever satire where two stoners (Jay and Silent Bob) discover that two characters in a comic book that are based on them is adapted into a feature film and the bumbling duo head out to Hollywood from New Jersey to ruin the movie before it's finished.  However, Jay and Silent Bob get some assistance from some people that they wouldn't normally expect not to mention they unwittingly become the targets of a goofy wildlife marshal.Sure, most of the jokes and gags in the movie aren't too disturbing or cruel, but I had a fun time.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the best Hollywood spoof and satire movies that I've seen in the last few years. "},{"Title":"Bong!","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well it's been a few years now and I still watch the movie at least once a week. I can't get enough of it. It still makes me laugh. The best thing I like to do is introduce the movie to people who don't have a clue about the whole Jay and Silent Bob thing. First they don't know what's going on but by the end of the movie they laugh there heads off. Although the movie has a lot of references to the other productions, you can still enjoy it for what it is. I love the second DVD with the gag reel, awsome stuff. The part with the 2 hookers was a classic, didn't stop laughing for ages, pitty it couldn't be put in the movie, it was a classic moment! Anyway....till next time......create a great day! "},{"Title":"Tons of fun","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect the movie to be high quality because of the drug references. But it actually made me laugh out loud a lot!  What a fun film, I have since rented other Kevin Smith movies and fallen in love so to speak with them, too!  I highly recommend this movie if you are looking for a laugh and you aren't too much of a prude to watch something with drug and sex references.  I want to be a filmmaker too.  I hope Kevin Smith and I can work together sometime, we are both young creative minds who are awesome lmao.  I like Jason Mewes hahaha.  My mom called while I was watching and said What are you watching with all that horrible language? hahaha it was Mallrats. I want Kevin and Jason to take me to the back of a Volkswagon! WOOT "}{"Title":"The greatest inside joke ever made.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob strikes back is a movie made for Kevin Smith fan's, and movie fans in general. If you haven't seen Smith's first 4 movies you will not get half of JASBSB. And if you aren't an avid cinema fan you won't get much of the other half either.Featuring various characters from all his previous flicks combined and constantly referencing other movies while taking a stab at popular culture, courtesy of his excellent skills as a writer. This is probably not a film your mother would care much about thanks to it's extremely crude tone. However if you are one of the people it was made for chances are you will have a riot here. Ever since Clerk's (smiths first film) it was pretty obvious that the character's of JAY and Silent Bob should get their own film. And they don't disappoint from Jay's hilarious delivery of his outrageous brand of toilet humour to Silent Bob's light sabre duel with Mark Hamill at the films brilliant climax its a movie that fan's could not help but adore.What of the none Smith followers though?. Well there could still be just enough here to entertain those people too. Being smith's most mainstream film to date and actually his most mature as director. JASBSB contains none of the indie quirk and limited direction associated with Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy . This is a bigger budgeted, star packed feature, that has as good a screenplay as any of his other work and will probably also find an audience with anyone who likes a well made comedy or simply anyone who likes to hear people making fun of Ben Affleck's career. So while it is indeed an 100 minute inside joke Smith's writing is just so damn good you might find you don't even care and just enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"a fun filled final chapter for the jersey trilogy","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  first of all, the script was not as good as it could have been (don't think Kevin didn't know it, he broke the fourth wall in the movie any number of times) but with plenty of jokes, cameos and classic Kevin Smith dialog the movie stands solid as it is.  "},{"Title":"It's just damn funny.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so damn funny I almost peed myself many many times....... This movie is suitable for anyone who finds movies such as Super Troopers, Dogma or American pie funny, though It seems that smokers do find It a little more amusing than others, but i rekkon everyone should see this flick........It's just Damn funny.  "},{"Title":"Irreverent Raunchy Silly Childish Hilarious","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well - you are either into Jay and Silent Bob or not.  If you are then this will satisfy.  No character development, complex plot, or that sort of Indie Film expectations should be expected.  A self-indulgent movie of Kevin Smith's alter-ego.  In the vane of Saturday Night Live skits, X-rated Abbot and Costello flicks, and a little bit of Autin Powersish Outlandishness. Great Fun for the Alternative Crowd (whatever that means) - all with a little movie insider satire. I loved it - hopefully there will be more of these! "},{"Title":"The End of the Line, Mercifully","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly awful film that destroys all the subtle parody that made this concept so popular in the first place, and instead presents a vulgar uninteresting story that relies on cameos to keep you from jumping ship. I liked a couple of these films very much, but the more fame it drew, the crappier it all got. Dogma was the funeral and this film the appropriately forgettable eulogy to a fresh idea gone very quickly stale. Good lesson for studios everywhere of when not to listen to the Indy buzz and dump truckloads of cash on inferior talent. If you liked Clerks and Chasing Amy, avoid this cash in at all costs!! "},{"Title":"Pop-culture buff's laugh along","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There surely is much to be said against this movie, as it definitely isn't Kevin Smith's best work. But, hey, it's hilariously funny, and obviously Smith's idea of nice afternoon out with the friends.Yes, it is not *Dogma*, let alone *Clerks*, and poking fun at every movie out there isn't actually satire. Nonetheless, the laugh factor is very high, the parodies are deeper than in most other films, it even pokes fun of itself in a good manner (not as clumsy as for instance *Loaded Weapon*. The movie also makes some nice points about film and reality, and the Internet community. Just look out for all the times a loaded and cocked weapon is thrown to the floor or falls down without firing!This is Kevin smith for the masses, as the film is watchable even if you don't know his sources and can't understand his allusions. Would I buy it on DVD? Well, perhaps, at a discount. "},{"Title":"This is hilarious","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie on a day when I felt stressed beyond belief and needed a break.  Let me tell you, this movie completely cheered me up.  It is absolutely hilarious!!  You will laugh until you bust a gut because it is so fun to watch these two moronic characters.  The film has everything great comedy, awesome co-stars; cameo appearances, and of course, hot girls (with a surprising lack of nudity).  Nonetheless, this movie has a razor sharp wit; it spoofs itself and the Hollywood machine.  Rent this film, take a load off and laugh until you spew soda out of your noise.8/10 ******** "},{"Title":"A hysterical farewell to a series to be remembered.","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While many people decide to bash Kevin Smith and all that entails, I personally enjoy all of his films (especially Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back).  While J&SBSB is not the best comedy ever, it would definitely go into my top five favorite comedy movies.  I especially like the countless references to Smith's previous films, of which there are many, and the numerous spoofs on other movies, such as Star Wars (duh), Batman, Star Trek (perhaps not the movie, I just know there's some in there), Jaws, etc etc.  Having also enjoyed said movies (with exception of Star Trek, never seen it), I was happy to see them in a satiric light (especially Star Wars, I thought the Bluntman and Chronic scene was classic).  The acting was agreeably not exceptional, but often comedies are not about the acting (many of you will probably disagree with me on this but, oh well), but who can deliver a punch-line, and do it in a funny manner, hence, the comedy genre classification.  As was aforementioned, this, to me, was a nice wrap up for a series of five films, including Clerks (1994), Mallrats (1995), Chasing Amy (1997 I believe), Dogma (1999), and said movie, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (2001).  Jay and Silent Bob were always my favorite characters in the movies (Brodie was hysterical in Mallrats, however), and I can relate to Jay, since he uses my type of humor, which is crude, vulgar, and explicit.  No, I do not smoke weed, but I still understand the references (but then again who doesn't).  I saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back first of the five movies (as backwards as that is), but it made me want to see its predecessors, which is saying something, as most fifth movies in a series suck and tire the subject.  Conclusively, this is a movie that I would recommend to anyone to watch, who hasn't seen it and likes crude comedies.P.S. Countless numbers of Jay's lines were classic to me, including the scene in Mooby's on the computer, his rap at the beginning, the ever-present Snootchie Bootchies, and his complete overuse of the F-bomb.  "},{"Title":"What The Hell?","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe this movie has gotten a 7.0 rating on IMDB. I've seen this movie twice and I was disappointed. Not only is it the worst Kevin Smith movie I have ever seen (and I've seen almost all of them), it's just not a very good movie at all. It's alright for some laughs, but that's about it. I gave this movie a 3.0 rating. I thought it had a lot of potential too.  "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the last in the view askew series and in my view it is one of the best. Jay and Silent Bob finally get the screen time they deserve and the casting of Will ferrell as a Federal Wildlife Marshal  in the movie was genius. Eliza Dushku and Shannon Elizabeth are good in their roles. The best out of the smaller roles was Sean William Scott as goofy brent the animal guy. This movie is a lot of fun and everybody should go and see it! "}{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's just great movie! It's too exciting for words to describe my thoughts about this movie! But, if you hadn't seen it yet , you should do it as soon as possible! Excellent cast crew and tonnes of jokes will blow you mind!!! "},{"Title":"View Askew Episode V- Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Average movie, but it tries too hard to be funny. Some of the jokes are recycled, old, and just not funny. But on the other hand, they are hilarious. Will Ferrell has brilliant lines, as does Kevin Smith and Ben Affleck. The plot is that Jay and Silent Bob find out that there is a movie being made about them. When they notice that they haven't gotten any money for it, they decide to hit the road to Hollywood and get their mother@#$%ing movie check. Apart from the dozens of great cameos and good jokes, the movie tries too hard.3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"One of the best joke movies","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was amazed when I saw that movie first time, and I liked it when I saw it some weeks ago again. I like those characters very much, from Chasing Amy for example, but this movie... I usually do not like such f-words comedies, but it just took me with. Great scenes where good actors (Damon etc) make jokes about themselves.Really something that should be seen! "},{"Title":"didnt know they had more than one movie","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i read some of the comments and didnt know that they have several movies out. so i thought i saw the first one. so i hope that the other ones were funnier than that! the movie had too many guest appearances to make the movie have some better effect, but what were all those stars thinking? **spoiler** the best part is when jay and silent bob learn the rules of the road from an older guy on the highway still has me laughing.  the movies attempt to be funny was to use as many cuss words as they can fit. i didnt count how many there were but my ears hurt from the hundreds and hundreds of times i heard the word ****! but somebody has to know. too bad i wont watch again and count! (C- D+) "},{"Title":"To watch this on your own should be a crime!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is totally a film for the masses, if you love your teen comedy and anything with toilet humour and scantily clad women (including Smith's wife) then you will love this!  But watch it with friends as when people here you laughing too loudly as they walk past your house they may call the men in white coats.  I would also advise you watch the previous four films otherwise you will not get half the jokes...plus watch Good Will Hunting again! "},{"Title":"Applesauce bitch!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one, Kevin Smiths finest so far, had me and my  New Jersey (Old Bridge) boyfriend laughing so hard, we actually started learning the lines from over extensive viewing. It got bad, we were getting into character... Oh, I wont quote anything, for fear of that f-word not being absent from anything worth quoting. I hope this is not the last well ever see of our two sweet, darling, stoner heroes, despite threats of this one being the end. Im gonna need a new fix soon!  Mewes was totally getting into his alter ego, well, into himself. Smith got it all right this time. And Affleck was the bomb! "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith saves the best for last.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you hated DOGMA, like I did, you'll feel redeemed with the final movie in the so-called Jersey Trilogy. You'd still have to see it to understand the whole movie, just like you'd have to see the others. Many people hated MALLRATS, but I didn't. I thought it was the best of the whole series, until I saw View Askew, Part 5.Just as I made the mistake of passing over Shaft for Scary Movie in 2000, I passed over this movie to see Ghost World in 2001, and I now realize I made a huge mistake, because although I like both, J & SB was much funnier.In the final Jay and Silent Bob movie, the dope dealers of Red Bank are finally thrown in jail and legally kept away from the Quick Stop & RST Video(Clerks). Somehow, a conversation with Brodie Bruce(Mallrats) leads to the fact that they are the inspiration for a comic book by Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards(Chasing Amy), which leads them on a quest for money they were promised for likeness rights. A brief trip on the internet at Holden's place shows various net-nerds criticizing the comic book, the movie, and the two dirt merchants themselves, and makes Jay think the movie should be stopped. From there the movie really takes off.After being kicked off a bus(one of the deleted scenes), they try hitchhiking, when they meet a man who's more successful at it, apparently because he's willing to turn gay for rides. I've hitchhiked before and I've never given up my sexuality for a ride. From there they meet a nun, a group of cartoon characters, four refugees from Switchblade Sisters; all of whom are bisexual babes who pretend to be animal rights extremists, one of which Jay falls in love with. If you think Shannon Elizabeth was hot in the first two American Pie movies, seeing her as Justice will make you forget those roles, because she's even better looking here. Unfortunately they also run into a lame protest song writer who loves animals a little too much, a bumbling US Wildlife Marshall, a sheriff played by, of all people Judd Nelson, two Hollywood-based dopplegangers of the self-proclaimed Mac Daddies of Jersey, and Mirimax's cast and crew.As for one of the comments on this board made on April 19, 2003, I don't think I'll have to worry about a real-life character from Endless Love(1981) coming to my house to beat the living sh** out of me...do I? Be sure to get a copy of the DVD for the deleted scenes, many of which really should have been left in the original movie, like their time on the bus, and the encounter with the two Hollywood Hookers. The fact that these scenes were cut is the most unfortunate hack job on a movie since It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World(1963). Reminiscing and missing scenes aside, Kevin Smith salutes his characters and audience with a movie that wraps everything up an a funny-looking bow that will be enjoyed and remembered for years to come. "},{"Title":"Who would watch a Jay & Bob movie?","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ben Affleck really captures the spirit of this film with that statement in more ways than I believe Kevin Smith intended.  It's weird because I like the Jay and Silent Bob characters, but I think they're a lot funnier in the smaller sub-plot roles a la Clerks.  In Mall Rats Jay started to get on my nerves, but the duo's ridiculous (yet hilarious) antics were performed with just enough moderation to keep things at a reasonably sane (for Kevin Smith) level.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back lets that restraint go and gives the pair the limelight so the audience can see for the first time how retarded these two characters really are . . . and they're not funny anymore.  Like the little kid who gets himself all hyped up and into the joke to force the humor upon all those listening.  Sure, Jay and Silent Bob are funny in other movies, but giving them their own movie?  It has its moments . . . its own chuckles, but overall it's just too much.Still a Kevin Smith film, still fun to look for Smith's usual trademarks and his satirical commentary on other films and the world around him with fun cameos . . . still a stupid plot (not a complaint . . . I mean, what kind of plot do you give to Jay and Silent Bob?).  I like Kevin Smith and I like his dynamic duo; I really do.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is everything I like about Kevin Smith thrown into overdrive . . . and it's not entertaining to me in such excess.  Hardcore fans will probably really go for it, but it's just too much for me. "},{"Title":"This film sucks","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has proven that he is one of the worst filmmakers of all time. I enjoyed Chasing Amy, but every other film has made me just shake my head at why people go to see his films. I thought Dogma was crap, but this film was worse. Kevin, I want the time that I wasted on this garbage back. I could have done better things like clean off dog crap from the neighbors lawn. Hey, there's a joke you can use in your next film since that's your film's mentality.  "},{"Title":"It may be hardly clerkin' - but it's still a blast","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Final Score 7.9 (out of 10)After reaching a carrier high with the realization of his dream project, the sure-to-be-classic Dogma, Kevin Smith sends off his fireplug mascots Jay and Silent Bob with their own film. A relatively unnecessary, anti-climactic collage of self-indulgent, self referential gags where Smith basically pats himself on the back for creating such a cash cow out of two foul mouthed stoners. Sounds like I'm complaining doesn't it? Actually, despite a pretty useless story, some beaten-to-death parodies and occasional patches of groan inducing humor, when it's all said and done 'Jay and Silent Bob' manages to be a rare crude studio comedy that doesn't compromise on it's simple vision and escapes with it's base intact. While it's hardly the grand finale that Smith promised, 'Strike Back' is a novelty movie at it's ballsiest.Made to give background muppets Jay and Silent Bob their own feature, it creates an interesting narrative role-reversal. This time instead of J & SB wandering into other people's stories as the comic relief, these two (both the preverbal R2-D2 and C-3P0 sidekick figures) become the axis at which all the other actors, who would normally be the stars, revolve around. Now it's people like Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek and Mark Hamell all at the mercy of the Jay and Silent Bob universe. All to be cast off to the periphery of the screen whenever they no longer serve a purpose for the two new leads. Still, Kevin Smith also seems to know that Jay and Silent Bob aren't exactly 3 dimensional enough to hang an entire movie on... and that's really the way we like it anyway. So without changing them, he turns the movie into a non-stop barrage of cameos and parodies for our heroes to walk in and out of. But with Jay and Silent Bob at the helm you can guarantee that this movie isn't going to have the well thought-out philosophizing of 'Clerks', 'Chasing Amy' or 'Dogma', so this marks Kev's first pure comedy - a d**k and fart joke movie without the intelligent subtext. Problem? Na, just variety. It's a fun thing to see Jay (Jason Mewes, doing that thing he does so well) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith himself getting laughs with bulged out eyes and the token showstopper scene where Bob speaks) in command of the action. The movie is funny enough and gleefully fun enough to elevate the rest of the movie and keep this tight-rope walk from falling off the fence.The story, as it were, finds Smith in his usual element - jokes abide surrounding comic books, movies, homosexuals, Star Wars and, of course, internet geeks - an all along the way Smith winks at the camera and gives us explanations and references to his previous 4 movies. Jay and Silent Bob travel from the QuickStop (a joy to see in living color) to Hollywood to sabotage a movie production. How? They aren't quite sure until it - like most everything - falls in their dim-witted laps. Along the way they meet a gang of hot lesbian jewel thieves (Eliza Dushku, Shannon Elizabeth and Ali Larter; cranking up the film's already off-the-meter guilty pleasure ratio) and a whole host of celebrities in strange roles.  So many stars walk in and out of frame it seems Smith doesn't quite know where to put everybody or how much screen time any of them should get. He usually decides on `as little as possible'. Smith even gets his camera moving nicely (although I've never complained about his static visual style) with a slick gravity defying jewel heist scene.It's inspired moments like when Jay and SB stumble on the set of Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season or Jason Biggs complaining to Dietrich Bader that he is only known as the pie f**ker, that make one laugh so hard we are able to slack Smith's lazy arrogance and the movie's slow plot-driven moments. One thing that truly does hamper the movie beyond forgiveness is Smith's embarrassing mis-use of comic pro Will Ferrell. Otherwise, Smith keeps the pace tight and the gags popping long past when most comedies would have run out of gas and turn into mush towards the third act. Actually, 'Jay and Silent Bob' gets better as it goes. How can I not like a movie that contains a 3rd act montage just for the sake of it where our heroes go door-to-door beating the snot out of every 12 year old punk that said a bad thing about their movie on the internet. Now, that's pure comedy! On a side note...The only way to see this movie is on DVD. God bless it, 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' boasts one of the best deleted scenes ever. "}{"Title":"i have seen lots of movies, so i know that this one is good.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was awesome to me. i think that it is about time that the timeless characters of jay and silent bob finally have their own movie. the comedy is hilarious and does not compare to any other.  in time i really hope to see them in another movie of their own.  two thumbs up!!!!! "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, this movie just plain sucked.  The plot was stupid, the characters were stupid, heck the whole movie was stupid.  Well I didn't really watch the whole movie, I cut it off about 30 minutes into it.  Not worth wasting my life watching it.I will admit it had some funny parts, but those were very scarce.  I'm glad my brother recorded it and I didn't blow my money on it.All in all I'll give it a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith gets 2nd big budget","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This would be my favorite Kevin Smith release, minus Clerks, which is in a league of its own.  This is one big budget laughfest full of cameos, weed references, and dick/fart jokes.  Not for the kids, I must say upfront.  The movie is made up of a journey to get a movie stopped, based on the two characters, Bluntman and Chronic.  Going hand in hand w/Chasing Amy, these characters are based on a comic book written by characters played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee.  They get consultation fees for the comic book, but are stiffed when the strip makes the big screen.  So our heroes set out on a journey to track down the makers and make them pay.  This movie is full of great one liners and big name cameos.  Some are Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill, George Carlin, Wes Craven, Shannen Doherty, Gus Van Zant, Chris Rock, Tracey Morgan, Judd Nelson, and so on...Most are people who have either been involved in a former view askew production, or just admirers of this genius comic.  Don't be expecting a big, drawn out plot in this one.  Just expect laugh a minute jokes and antics that you thought you would never hear.  Some include A drug induced ride in the mystery machine w/Scooby and the gang, a mock Star Wars skit including none other than Mark Hamill, and a full out version of Jungle Love by Morris Day and The Time.  Don't feel left out if you don't get all the jokes in this one.  A lot are personal jokes that only the view askew members will catch.  And I must say that you have to see all the Smith movies to get the full effect of this one.  A few of my personal favorite parts are Jason Mewes visioning laying on a bed of ice after his kidneys have been yanked to be sold on the black market, A Smithesque rendition of Mission Impossible, and the ending sequence starring Morris Day and The Time.  Don't miss out on this one.  Very crude but very, very funny.  I rate this one 4/5 for comic brilliance and the fact that it stars Jay and Silent Bob.  And please see the directors cut for the hilarious bonus footage.  You can get the 2 dvd set for like 15 bucks.  Probably the 2nd best Smith film, falling right behind Dogma. "},{"Title":"Funny movie - but not what could be","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of all Smith's New Jersey movies, this is my least favorite.  It doesn't fit into the time line of the other movies and the returning characters (especially Holden McNeil) don't have the same vibe.  It's a funny movie, and the idea behind it is great - putting Jay and Silent Bob in the spotlight - but it doesn't live up to Smith's past work.  "},{"Title":"Snooch the Nooch!!! This movie rox!!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is funny as hell! It's Jay and his compainion Silent bob go on a trip to shut the new miramax film Blunt man And Cronic Strike Back which people on the internet are calling blunt man and cronics's real identity Jay and Silent bob Bad things. So, Jay and Silent Bob go to Miramax to get their movie check. This is my favorite movie!!! "},{"Title":"I'm still laughing...","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI've read lots of reviews that say that you need to of seen the other Kevin Smith movies in order to get most of the jokes in this. I must of missed those jokes while I was busy laughing at the jokes that I was meant to get. This is the first Kevin Smith movie I've ever seen and I'm going to trying to catch some more after watching this laughfest.The plot of the story is nothing to write about, Jay and Silent Bob discover that a movie is being made about them, not only are they not getting paid but people on the internet are writing negative comments about them.So they set off for Hollywood, and in comes a variety of cameos. Some are hilarious, others are so-so but altogether there was some huge laughs.The apperances by Ben Affleck, both as himself and as a character was the highlight of the movie for me. The constant looking at the camera, the not so subtle winks and the way he talked about himself was delightful.The best part is the second half of the movie, when they get to Hollywood. The in-jokes are great and the cameos (even more in the second half) are terrific (especially Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and Jason Biggs).It could of done with less swearing, I don't usually mind swearing but this movie went overboard, you just don't care about them after the first 15 minutes...Nevertheless, what a funny movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilariously crude mockery/indulge on Hollywood.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to hand it to directors when they bite from the hand that feeds, especially when they do it in such a blunt way. Case in point Robert Altman (The Player). And now avant-garde writer/director Kevin Smith does so with delightful relish. `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back' is by far the funniest, though not the best, film I've seen in a while. The main characters- Jay & Silent Bob- have featured in all of Smith's movies to date. But the question is, can they carry the film by themselves? The answer is an enthusiastic yes. While it is rib-ticklingly funny, `'Strike Back' is just laughing gas. In past efforts such as `Chasing Amy' and the ingenious `Dogma', there was a tremendous number of crude jokes, but also an emotional core that made it all worthwhile. On the contrary, this movie is done strictly for laughs which makes it good in some respects (no tedious love side plots) but overall doesn't make it match up to previous outings. In fairness, the title is very misleading. With a name like `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back', this sounds like some grotesque teen sex comedy starring Tara Reid. Instead, this is a very funny, though totally unrealistic, indulge on Hollywood. In order to view the film, you must have seen at least one of Kevin Smith's other movies in order to know what to expect. Plenty of racist/sexist jokes lurk within so this is not one for the easily offended. While some of the jokes are completely over-the-top, films don't come less serious than this. Performances are all okay from a big cast, but the most memorable parts come from the range of cameos. The funniest is Chris Rock's notoriously racist director- Chaka Luther King. Other funny parts go to Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill, James Van Der Beek, Wes Craven, Jason Biggs, Sean William Scott (going against type, but nonetheless hilarious) and of course Ben Affleck and Matt Damon superbly bickering about their career on the set of `Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season'. Several others seem out of place, the best example being Judd Nelson's unfunny police sheriff. This certainly wouldn't win any awards (unless there's a trophy for bravery), but this is crude, rude and blunt entertainment at its best. If you're expecting an epic of cinematic proportions, then look the other way. But if you want some good pointless, superficial fun, then `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back' is an inauspicious laugh riot. My IMDb rating 6.6/10. "},{"Title":"go home celebs","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) are a pair of stoned New Jersey slackers who have long been used as the templates for a pair of popular comic book heroes, Bluntman and Chronic. When they learn that their alter egos are to be turned into a major motion picture without their consent or compensation, the pair sets off for Hollywood to sabotage the production. Along the way, they encounter an ape, a nun (Carrie Fisher), the cast of Scooby Doo, a Charlie's Angels style band of sexy women who use them as stool pigeons in a diamond heist, and an unhinged wildlife ranger (Will Ferrell). They also meet up with some regulars from the Smith canon, including Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams), Brian O'Halloran as Dante Hicks, Jason Lee as Banky Edwards, Alanis Morissette as God, and actors Ben Affleck and Matt Damon in dual roles as themselves and two other familiar characters. I didnn't mind this movie too much, I just didn't like all the appearances by big names. Kevin Smith still put a fun movie together, just keep the regular cast of characters the main focus and no more cameos etc. please. "},{"Title":"hillarious","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was so unbelievably funny it had me laughing all the through and it had a pretty good cast the storyline was'nt fantastic but that did'nt matter because once it had you laughing you were just waiting for the next big joke and you knew there were loads more to come.  "},{"Title":"Best one yet","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Personally I think that this is the best Kevin Smith film, although I haven't seen Clerks I would say it is the funniest out of Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. I think that Jason Mewes is the best hes been, and the story is witty and original. "}{"Title":"Jay and Bob finally get their own movie!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Jay and Silent Bob movie?  About time!  Everyone's favourite Kevin Smith characters _finally_ get their own movie, after livening up all those other Kevin Smith movies which can get a bit boring (watch Chasing Amy to see what I mean).  Of course, Jay and Bob's juvenile humour isn't for everyone, but I think it's great, watched this movie about 30 times.  Watch it, if you think you have a sense of humour.  If you do you'll love it, if not (or if you think you're all clever) then don't bother. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I've ever seen","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the funniest movie I have ever seen. Kevin Smith is a comic genius! Almost every scene had me rolling on the floor laughing. My favorite scene is the Good Will Hunting 2 scene. When Ben affleck says Applesauce, B****, I literally fell on the floor and tears ran down my face. I recommend this movie to anyone who can handle strong language and sexual content.PS, if you can, check out the Clerks TV show. Funniest TV show in the world. Seriously. ABC were morons to cancel it. "},{"Title":"Oh Kevin Smith, I Expected So Much Better Of You","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My late adolescent years and early 20s were filled with Kevin Smith. Large groups of us used to get together and watch, Clerks, Chasing Amy, and even Mallrats.  When I saw Dogma, however, I became slightly less enamored with the idea of Kevin Smith.  Now, after watching, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, I fear that his best work is way behind him.What has always separated Kevin Smith from most other writer/directors is the realism of his dialogue.  You can watch any of the early portion of the New Jersey trilogy and see the characters as slacker everymen who you might know in your own life.  This was even the case with the caricatures of Jay and Silent Bob.In this movie, that realism is completely lost in an attempt to be an over-the-top comedy.  There are very few, if any quotable lines.  It's as if the complaints of becoming too Hollywood that fans voiced after Mallrats have finally come to fruiting in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.There are too many cameos (including a dual role for Ben Affleck which should have been kicked to the curb in the editing room) and too much affection for the very Hollywood system that Kevin Smith tries to parody in this movie.  He attempts too hard to distance himself from it, using nudges and winks to the camera when he's trying to be obviously post-modern, but even this comic effect seems stale by about ten minutes into the movie.I'm trying to think of a single truly funny performance and I can't do it. The jokes still come through for die-hard Kevin Smith fans, but this movie has lost the innocence which made Kevin Smith great.  Perhaps the upside is that next time around the studio will cut his budget and he'll have to rely on wit again as opposed to cliches. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith sends up Hollywood!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate how fake Hollywood is!This line sums up this movie better than any other I could think of. This is a fine collection of inside jokes meant to be funny to hollywood insiders, not so much to the general public. In this I think it was wildly successful. More cameo appearances and big name actors than in any movie since Mars Attacks, and they all seem to have had a blast making the movie.Definitely worth a gander if only for the fantastic self-deprecating humor displayed by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, as well as Gus Van Sant. Will Ferrell is priceless here as well... One of the better comedies of the last 10 years. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It may be crude, but its damn funny","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its not fair to all of the people who thought this movie is p*** your pants funny. Yeah, okay well it may be all stoner, gay and fart/poop jokes, but people find that funny. Its just like how people find movies like 'The Piano' brilliant!  "},{"Title":"Not that funny","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To say that a Kevin Smith movie is not that funny doesn't mean it's in the same category as any other comedy, far from that, it just means that it's not as funny as his other movies. Which is a shame in this case, since it had to be the movie that is based on Kevin Smith, well his character anyway. And Jay! It wasn't just some of the mediocre or cliche jokes that weren't funny, or Bob being silent all the time which is getting kind of old(or his acting is), it was the tone of the movie. I had a feeling like I was watching a bad John Hughes family comedy because every time something important would happen or there was a punch line on the way you'd hear that lame musical score that is only suitable for PG movies about monkeys that can talk(whatever). But besides this, if you have even the slightest idea what I'm talking about, the movie provides entertainment. Jason Mewes is his usual self, brilliant and drop dead funny, Seann William Scott and the Affleck/Damon spoof provide some of the funniest moments, there's loads of cameos and Shannon Elisabeth proves yet again why she's the hottest thing in Hollywood. A shame the movie didn't take on a more Dogma-tic approach, more smart stuff instead of THE CLIT jokes. But they definitely had a blast making the movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"splendid","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is an instant classic. kevin smith continues to amaze me. just when i think that all the toilet humor in the world has been used, he pulls something else out of his hat of magic tricks. jay and silent bob need WAY more movies cause they are the best characters ever created. hilarious.. absolutely, mind-blowingly hilarious. a riot. BONG! love, jeramy and erik. p.s. snootch to the nogga nootch "},{"Title":"It's an OK movie","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plots not really there half the time, the chicks are to aggressive, and quick wit with quirky scenes, does not make a movie, even though this movie has neither of them, I should have given this movie a 2(poor)for female aggression, but, I'm not rating movies on a technicality, so I give it 3(fair).  "},{"Title":"Great cast, average movie","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was very excited to see this movie as I enjoy a good  movie and I love a great cast.  This appeared to have both.  However, despite a few very funny moments, this movie was average at best.   The best part of it was the I get high song from Afroman at the end.   Definitely rent it before buying.   4.5 stars. "},{"Title":"great comedy, one of the years funniest","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and silent bob strike back is a funny story of two guys going to hollywood to stop a movie about them from being made.  i enjoyed this film and think that most sane people would too. my favorite part is the surprise appearance of mark hammil. 8/10. "}{"Title":"A Consistant Hour and A Half Slap To The Bored Face","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen other works of Smith's I must say this was a terrible let down.  In all fairness it is a different kind of movie and no longer an indepentent cult film so what expectations I have must be taken in context of Smith's move to such a different style and genre.  I mean, it was a total mainstream sell-out with no rewarding values save the here-and-there comedic frills one may or may not get from pateintly staying with it until a good way into it where it finally picks up; though know when I say picks up, I do not mean very far up at all.  The true prize comes throughout as cameos and former characters of Smith's come together and ultimatly to watch Jay and Silent Bob's movie which is better than the actually movie itself.  It's terrible and the funny thing, perhaps the funniest, is no one seems to thilled to be there.  If you liked Kevin Smith's other movies, skip this one. It will only sour you. I give it an E, and that's unbias whereas it probably deserves and F, but it's not the worst I've seen.  Though, again, from Kevin Smith, I expect more; and from him, it's the worst of his I hope I see. "},{"Title":"jay and silent bob strike gold","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll tell you what, this is a great movie.  By no means am I comparing it to a godfather or a shawshank, it isn't at that echelon... but thats not the point.  The goal of this film was to put a cap on the kevin smith flicks, and kevin smith does a phenomenal job of inter-twining all of them with laugh out loud humor.  Thus, jay and silent bob i give you a huge thumbs up on this poopshoot.com "},{"Title":"One of my fav. movies!!!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It has to be one of my favorite movies of all time!!!It has a ton of famous people in it likeWill Ferrell,Chris Rock,Ben Affleck,Matt Damon,Jason Biggs,Sean William Scott,Wes Craven,Jamie Kennedy,James Van Der Beek,Carrie Fisher,Shannon Elizabeth,Tracy Morgan,Eliza Dushku,Jon Stewart,and of course Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes!And I probally did'nt even name em' all!If you have never seen this movie I highly recommend renting it,even buying it!Even though they say the F-word more than a thousand times (littararly!)its all in good fun!Ok i'll shut up now! Peace out!recommendYYYEEESSS!!! "},{"Title":"They go from jersey to LA to stop a movie from being made about them.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The dynamic duo travel from New Jersey to Los Angeles to stop a movie from being made about them because people made fun of them on an internet message board.  But the film gets made, they get rich, they then find everyone who posted negative comments about them on the internet and beat them up to the song How Many People Wanna Kick Some Ass? by Stroke 9. "},{"Title":"How Many People Wanna Kick Some Ass?","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ...Yeah this was probably the best way to end the Jay and Silent Bob era on film history... ...It had everything a View Askew fan needed, dick and fart jokes, cameo after cameo after cameo, ad the return of the best characters from Kevin Smith's films. ...My favorite moment is probably the GOOD WILL HUNTING 2 HUNTING SEASON segment... why? Because it is! ...A lot of people will hate this film because they won't have a clue what the hell is going on! My advice is watch...(In this order)CLERKS. MALLRATS CHASING AMY DOGMATo get the full enjoyment out of Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't expect to stop laughing.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CAUTION Possible spoilersI have seen all of Kevin Smith's movies featuring Jay and Silent Bob and I must say this one made me laugh the most(followed closely by Clerks). At the beginning of this movie, Jay and Silent Bob are together in front of a Quick Stop market and Jay is singing one of the most hilarious songs I have ever heard.  This great beginning foreshadows the non-stop swearing and funny antics you will see when watching this.  Some may say it has no plot but put all that aside for a second and appreciate this movie for what it is, a comedy that you will remember for a long time. "},{"Title":"Snoochie Boochies!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith rocks, he really does. This is probably the last in the fantastic Jay and Silent Bob films (whimper), but don't fear, it doesn't let down the other fantastic films (Chasing Amy, Mallrats, Clerks, Dogma) and delivers jokes at such a speed that you won't have stopped laughing from the previous one by the time the next one comes. Wholly recommended for a fun night. "},{"Title":"Is this the last one??... what a shame (","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was first introduced to Jay and Silent Bob through this movie. When my friend gave it to me I hesitated to watch it because he told me that it had all the foul language that you can imagine.I watched eventually and laughed my a** off through out the whole movie. I was so obsessed by it that I went and bought it on DVD so that I can see the extra deleted scenes (there are some really funny scenes in there). When you watch a movie that has Jay and Silent Bob in it, you should expect an all-time-jokes film. I like Kevin's movies and have been collecting them too (like Dogma, Mallrats, Clerks, Chasing Amy...). The comedy in them is so instant, it hits you when you least expect it. That comes from the brilliant screenplay and writing. The direction was Excellent. I loved the depictions from Hollywood classic movies, nice touch. The casting was great, especially the Females ;) The movie is an overall brilliance.I give this one 10/10 and hope to see more of these lovely characters and movies ) "},{"Title":"On and off","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally enjoyed the 'in-jokes,' cameos, and places where the movie was making fun of itself. Of course it's been done before, and better, but it was still done pretty well and quite funny.In fact, the only part of the movie I wasn't especially interested in was the main plot itself. Everything with Jay & Bob got a little tiresome after only a couple minutes of movie, and I started watching for whatever the next interesting diversion would be. Fortunately, that's one of the things that improves over the course of the movie. Unfortunately, that leaves you with half-hour long stretches of boredom nearer the beginning.That's not to say I didn't leave feeling I enjoyed it, but the second watching wasn't nearly as nice. I'd recommend it, but only to certain people and not unqualified. "},{"Title":"Somewhat poor, but has  massive potential.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is both a disappointment and a bit of a hilarious joy. This movie starts out very funny and entertaining and from the start you see many classic reappearances, like the athletic trainer who is now a cop. If this movie would have focused more on Jay and Silent Bob's real personal lives and their common dwellings in their small town this movie would have very much rivaled Friday which is one of the best urban comedies of all time. From what you can see from most of this movie it seems like this is mainly a look back at all of Kevin Smith's creations of characters and ideas, along with his hilarious views on other classic icons of pop culture like Scooby Doo and Star Wars. As intelligent and witty as Kevin Smith is, he has a very funny wise ass tone to his films constantly making fun of other bad films and always pointing out constant lame cliches in the film industry yet this film imbodies one of the worst of all. The plots main cliche is the same old 'two buddies stumble and bumble throughout the country , then buddies accidently do something stupid, then the stupid thing they did becomes a huge misconception and now they are on tv and the police and fbi want them, then finally in the end everything gets cleared up and both or one of the buddies gets the girl, and everything is supposed to be ok', geez    that was disappointing!As soon as I noticed the way the plot shifted to a road movie I got a little bored, but I was still very much entertained. The road trip had many dull unfunny parts and also there was a ton of celebs crammed into the movie who were hilarious sometimes, and made you want to fast forward your player at other times. I hope Kevin Smith ignores the bad reviews and gives Jay and Silent Bob another chance, but this time make the film about the real drug dealing J&SB and focus on their hilarious free cheese sandwich eating life style rather than a phony, adventurous, travel the world, type of one. Hopefully Clerks 2 will come to light and we will get more of the real J&SB and not the phony merchandise junk selling ones from the cartoon series either. "}{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob,,,,,Awesome","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was an awesome movie.  I could not believe how much I laugh out loud. It made we wanting more.Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes were so funny to watch that I had to see more.After researching Kevin Smith's movies I have now enjoyed Clerks, Mullrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma and looking forword to more.Thanks to Kevin Smith for movies worth seeing and worth buying. "},{"Title":"Yikes!!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Haven't had that much fun since the last time someone poked me in the eye with a fork.  It was almost like seeing a live-action version of `Beavis and Butthead Do America' - my sense of decorum and intellect were so completely insulted that I couldn't take my eyes off the screen.That heap had to be the most inane, self-serving, wink-wink-aren't we insiders piece of rubbish ever to hit the screen.  I think even the Stray was better, in terms of direction, acting, writing, etc.It is as if Harvey Weinstein gave chubby a check for $5 MM so that he could throw himself a big party.Yikes.  "},{"Title":"Rude, crude and damn funny!!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny film! It is entertaining, well paced. well written... and has *no* boring bits or flat spots. Anyone that dislikes this film has probably taken to too seriously. It is not a film to be taken seriously. I bought the DVD yesterday and watched it for the second time... and I found it just as entertaining as the first time I watched it. The deleted scenes on the DVD provide an extra hour of side aching laughs. If you liked the movie, then do yourself a favor and buy the DVD. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very funny film by Smith","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warning, may contain spoilers.When i started watching this movie, it looked to be kind of stupid. But after it got into it a little, i was laughing until it ended. I loved this movie. Especially the part where JASB get into the mystery machine van with Scooby and his pals, and Jay says I got Dooby Snacks. Another funny scene was when the nun picks up JASB and asks them if they live by the book.  The ending was the best when they go to all the peoples homes that wrote bad things about them on the internet, and beat all of them up.  I give it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Should've been better","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've been a big fan of Kevin Smith's movies for a while, but my friend warned me that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back wasn't so good. So when I watched it I wasn't expecting much. But I found it alright, but it should've been better. The cameos were on the whole very good (particularly the crowd walking out of the movie at the end), and it had some good ideas but it felt kind of flat. Perhaps if it had ended with notes on what happened to all the characters like in Mallrats. After all the movies you'd have thought they could have gone out in style, like in a parody of Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid or something like that. But like the ending to Dogma it was kind of a let down. But it could have been much,much worse couldn't it. It was OK but as the finale to the Viewaskewniverse, it was kind of anticlimactic. I can see why he ended it though, noone wants to get labelled so early on. Plus he can always go back if nothing else works out.But I reckon Jersey Girl will work because it does look kind of cool, I heard it described as Smith's Annie Hall, as before Annie Hall Woody Allen had only made a few slapsticky films. It looks to be more mature than his other work although Chasing Amy has its grown up moments. And he hasn't sold out, in Dogma he bought in heavy hitters Alan Rickman, Chris Rock and Salma Hayek, and no one calls that a sell out.      "},{"Title":"A Very Uneven Film","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In watching this final installment of Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob characters, we see all the good and all the bad of the series. This movie, like his other movies, has very funny stuff. Oh sure, a lot of it is crude and offensive, but it is funny. However, also in this film we see some of the bad of Kevin Smith. Acting that is less than great, dialog that is just weak and jokes that clank like a broken sink. To me, Smith has always tried to perpetrate this in thing. Like you are either in with what is going on, or you don't get it. Be it Clerks, Mallrats, or Strikes Back, I have never found his movies to be that clever. That is not to say that they are not funny. I loved Clerks and laughed a lot at Jay and Silent Bob. However, I also did groan a lot at a lot of very weak points in this film. Moreover, the female actresses in this film are terrible, but they look good. Which, I guess, is what Smith is all about. He makes films that are nice to look at, but should not be studied. "},{"Title":"Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...J&SBSB boasts one of the biggest and best modern casts in the 00's so far! And for such a comedy it's a big achievment in its own right! ...The end of the View Askew World is over! And now with Jersey Girl just months away we await for a new chapter in the careers of Kevin Smith and Scott Moiser! ...This was a nice way to close the book with Jay & Silent Bob starring in there last movie... excluding animation and Jason Mewes ever quitting drugs. ...Some very funny moments. My favorite? Probably has to be GOOD WILL HUNTING 2 Hunting Season! Brilliant!8/10P.S...MMM Eliza Dushku "},{"Title":"I live my life by the book","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  dont forget the nun! i live my life by the book. and what about scooby doo? or the meeting of the drug dealers in l.a.? you touched my heart man.or, or or or or basically every scene, every line, every detail! they should show this movie to people how want to commit suicide. theyll laugh there ass off and forget about it! this film really is a life changing experience! -) "},{"Title":"Best of the series","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Jay(Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob(Kevin Smith) learn that a movie is being made off their likenesses and that they have been duped out of the cash they deserve,The two of them head out for Hollywood to stop the movie being made at all costs.Along the way from Jersey to Hollywood the two run into all kinds of adventures.The movie is filled with plenty of young stars plus numerous cameo's.The cast includes Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Eliza Dushku, Shannon Elizabeth, Will Farrell, Ali Larter, Jason Lee, Chris Rock, Judd Nelson, Shannen Doherty, George Carlin, Carrie Fisher, Renee Humphrey, Joey Lauren Adams, Dwight Ewell, Jeff Anderson, Brian O'Halloran, Seann William Scott, Gus Van Sant, Wes Craven, James Van Der Beek, Jason Biggs, Jamie Kennedy, and Jennifer Schwalbach who happens to be married to Kevin Smith.Also in a cameo is Scott William Winters who played Cyril O'Reily on HBO's Oz.The best scenes of the movie is on the set of Good Will Hunting 2 where Matt Damon and Ben Affleck play themselves, another great scene is with Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek who also play themselves.If you never saw any of the other Jay and Bob movies some of the jokes might go over your head, but it really doesn't matter you won't enjoy the movie any less.This was my fav of the Jay and Bob movies.Writer/Director Kevin Smith does a good job, but at times the comedy was too slapstick and didn't fit the flow of the movie.And towards the end it tends to drag on a bit.Kevin Smith has this huge cult following, he is a talented Writer/Director but i don't think he is this god-like Filmmaker some see him as.At times the story gets a bit lost and i feel that way about his other movies as well.Still with that said very funny stuff here for the most part, i was laughing pretty much the whole way through.Will Farrell by far steals the show here.I give Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back 7/10  "},{"Title":"It's not just for stoners","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd have to say that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was well worth the wait. And, believe me, I couldn't have waited another moment. I've had this weird thing for Jay and Silent Bob ever since the first time I saw Clerks. Yeah, I know, it's a personal problem. Anyway,since I find it almost impossible to talk about this film without giving away the plot, let me tell you about my experience at the theatre on opening day. I saw the 230 show and since it was mid-week, the theatre was not very crowded. I sat in the 4th row, center(I am the fat lady in the 4th row.) and behind me a couple seats over were a woman who was about 45 and her mother who had to be in her late 60s. I thought for a second that I or they were in the wrong auditorium. But the movie started and I was proven wrong. The lady in her 60s laughed her fool head off through the entire movie and in all the same places that I laughed. She even stayed through the entire Afroman song at the end. I tell you, this woman had a ball and so did I. Especially when you-know-who from you-know-what(episodes 4,5,&6) shows up wearing a big giant you-know-what on you-know-where and wackiness ensues. Heck, just see it. Rent it, borrow it, buy it, anything. You don't have to be a teenaged stoner to enjoy it.     "}{"Title":"Jungle Love...","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob have their own movie.  Say what you want about Kevin Smith, but this is a funny movie.  The high brow folks, (AKA Film Snobs), who look for meaning and purpose and plot developments just won't get it.Bluntman and Chronic is being made into a movie, and Jay and Silent Bob are out to stop it, and or get a movie check.  Simple and easy.Do not try and analyze this movie, or Kevin Smith... just watch it and laugh.This film also pays homage to the greatest band in the world...Morris Day & The Time!! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After great movies such as Clerks & Chasing Amy I was shocked and highly disappointed from the Shallow and lame script for this movie.I would like to consider this as a one off slip. "},{"Title":"Snootch to da Nootch classic","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is well worth your time.  Its got action, romance, cameos, comedy and fart jokes.  All this in one movie makes a good combination.  Next time you are at your local video store check out, and give some respect to the clerks. "},{"Title":"read this Spleen","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is not funny, it's not paced, it's scarcely acted, and it doesn't appear to have even been written. Why was it releasedif you payed any attention to the whole meaning with the movie, youll know that the exact thing you just wrote, is smiths point, the movie is all about what you wrote. when they fly through the window into the room with jason biggs and that dawsons creek guy (whoever it is) jason says WHAT? THERES A SCRIPT?! and who the hell pays to see this crap(not exactly like that) and then they look in to the camera. The exact things you said was already written on movie poop shoots.com ok, i agree this movie aint especially funny, but some things are really great, like when jay asks jason biggs if he scored with that russian chick, which is jays girlfriend in the movie, theres lots of that kind of humor in the film, so watch the movie with both eyes open, dont just write it sucks because you take for granted that it does. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's worst film, but not totally without merit.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has had a pretty varied career in terms of quality product. His first feature Clerks, which is my own personal favourite of his and something that I think he's never matched since, was brilliant because it was razor sharp, superbly written and actually quite insightful. It tapped into a gen-x underside to small town life, made up of people who are too intelligent to waste away their time in low-rent, boring jobs but find that's what they choose to do rather than make the attempt to really better themselves. More than anything it demonstrated that you don't NEED special effects and egotistical A-list stars to make a good movie, you just need raw talent and ingenuity. Mallrats is much more of a fan-boy picture. It's funny, hilarious at times, but the humour felt somehow stretched, as though Kevin had simply been asked to do more of the same on a bigger budgeted, studio outing with better actors. It's really just an escapist, feel good romantic comedy. Chasing Amy on the other hand, made for only about 250,000 dollars, was superb, a funny yet poignant and acutely observed film about contemporary sexuality and relationships. Dogma an interesting failure, good ideas and intelligence let down by excess and sloppy direction.All of which leads you to conclude that Kevin Smith is a genuinely good filmaker, but his talents lie best in writing, and if he must direct, then he should limit himself to low-maintenance, understated indie movies. Give him a huge budget and he tries to cram in too much, too many visuals and too many inconsequential details. He doesn't have any real sense of cinema aesthetics or mise-en-scene which means his films can look badly shot and put together. But he's a very funny guy, with a knack for realistic and erudite dialogue and situations. It's a shame therefore that as far as most people were concerned his major contribution to contemporary cinema was the creation of Jay and Silent Bob. As most people have noted the guys are fine in small amounts, as comic characters designed to temper the more normal people we meet in Kevin's films (lets face it, they could have been left out of Chasing Amy without any major repercussions) but too much of them and we begin to see that they really can't carry 90 minutes of screen time on their own.Not that they're forced to. At least Kevin managed to secure the talents of many quality actors for this film, including cameos from just about everyone who's been in a previous View Askew production Chris Rock, Jason lee, George Carlin, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Joey Lauren Adams, Brian O'Halloran, Jeff Anderson, Carmen Lee etc. He even manages to dredge up Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill for a couple of scenes (Mark Hamill has to have, amusingly, a onscreen caption with his name when he appears, due to the fact that he hasn't done anything noteworthy for about 20 years and is therefore unrecognisable to Star Wars fans). Unfortunatly that's one of the movies most signifigant drawbacks. It's very much an insider film, full of self-referencing and in-jokes from other films by the director, and if you haven't seen these movies then you might be a bit non-plussed at times. Then again, if you haven't seen these movies you're unlikely to be rushing to see this one. People say he made it for the fans, and that's fair enough, but I think the fans deserve better.That's the second problem and probably, now I come to think of it, a more important one the movie isn't actually very funny. Oh it has its moments, it is Kevin Smith after all, but nothing like the volume of quality gags we saw in any of the earlier films. There's an amusing Scooby Doo parody which, to be fair, gets more laughs in about 5 minutes than the recent feature did in an hour and a half. There's Jay's impassioned speech on behalf of the Coalition for the Liberation of Itinerant Treedwellers (geddit?). There's even a very welcome 'Good Will Hunting' sequel 'Hunting Season', and it's nice to see Ben and Matt send themselves up so freely. But a lot of the movie grates. Jay isn't a marvellous character to listen to for over an hour, some of the material is obviously recycled from the comic books (which fans will presumably have read), then there's a lot of redundant dick and fart jokes and profanity just for the sake of being profane i.e. that swearing alone is somehow inherently amusing.It's not a total disaster, and the quickfire approach to the gags means that while little is set up or developed sufficiently to make the jokes really funny, if a line or visual hook falls flat, there'll be another one along in about 15 seconds, so you ought to be able to find something amusing in there. By the way the film, I noticed, came under a lot of fire from certain pressure groups due to accusations of obscenity, homophobia etc, but if you actually watch it you'll realise that it in no way condones anything Jay says; he's like a five year old with tourrettes and it's funny because he has no idea how stupid and offensive he comes off.Flawed, but Kevin Smith is now working on a more mature and intellectualy challenging project, so hopefully this kind of low-brow, juvenile slapstick is behind him now. "},{"Title":"dvd comments","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of those films that you GET or you don't. I did, even though I'm a Brit! The writing is superb, funny, absurd at times, and occasionally derivative. Basing this review from the R2 dvd which has a wonderful array of outtakes, the film is even better when viewed over a few nights with the benefit of the excellent commentary from the director, producer & Jason Mewes, and the dvd extras. The gag reel is worth the purchase price alone check out Ben Afleck & Matt Damon's I don't like the sound of them apples, Will. The music suits the film very well, especially when the women are introduced. The all star cast play their parts very well, sometimes tongue in cheek, sometimes unwittingly so! Overall a wonderful feel good, cuss and dick joke movie that had me laughing out loud at the tenth viewing!!! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Inside Joke","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While not quite as good as Kevin Smith's previous four films, Jay and Silent Bob is silly, fun, and made for his fans.The film is essentially a two-hour (approximately, though probably less) inside joke for fans of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.Smith (with the power of the Weinsteins of Miramax behind him) was able to include a truly astounding number and variety of cameos, and the film is always fun. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Pretend to be More than it is.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you liked Kevin Smith's other movies, you'll like this one.  If you liked SOME of Kevin Smith's other movies, you'll find things to like in this one. If you aren't fond of the Kevin Smith portfolio, then you'll find nothing to like in this addition.  It's as simple as that.This was a movie made for the fans.  It was made for people who like locker room humor with a liberal sprinkling of profanity.  It was made for people who use the internet to find out about movies, and to poke fun at those who complain about movies before they're ever released.It is a comedy, and one that utterly fails to take itself seriously at any moment.  The title characters work best in reaction to normal people, and the drift from scene to scene interacting with such characters.  But at every moment, there is an implicit wink to the camera.The script is pure fanboy, laden with pop culture references, especially to Star Wars and Kevin Smith's other films.  Part of the fun of this movie is that the characterization of many of the supporting characters was already established in Clerks and Chasing Amy, which leaves this film to make jokes at their expense.If you didn't like this film, fine by me.  It wasn't for everybody, and it's not something I would watch every day.  But don't be expecting Oscar material, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Boring and unimaginative.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A stoner-adventure movie could be so much more. There was absolutely no creativity here, and I'm sorry, I just can't laugh at this sort of a by the numbers production. Really, every single step was obviously made according to a formula. I'm sure that with a $50 subsidy, my friends and I could write better jokes in a single weekend.This movie was designed so as to play well to the lowest common denominator at frat houses. If that's you, you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"Chuckle Chuckle Chuckle","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My favoutite out of the '5' is this one. Lots of people will not agree to that, which is fine. To find the whole film from start to finish funny, you really have to of seen Clerks, Malrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma.An All star cast(Affleck etc.) lead the way for as Kevin Smith put it '90 mins of di*k and Fart jokes'. Well that's exactly what we got, and that's what was expected, and that's what everyone enjoyed!Great to finally see Jason Mewes in a starring role, he and Smith carried this film very well. "}{"Title":"You idiots...","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You guys who wrote bad crap about this movie dont understand that they (as in the people that made the movie) were making fun of PEOPLE LIKE YOURSELVES. Unless you wrote good stuff about it, because this movie is darn dunny. Atleast the first 20 times i watched it. "},{"Title":"Funny, But Doesn't Live Up To Any of Kevin Smith's Films.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the worst Kevin Smith movie ever made. It isn't a bad movie at all, it is actually kind of decent and very funny. It just doesn't like up to the great Kevin Smith films such as Clerks, Chasing Amy, Dogma and Mallrats. It definetly is the most crude and twisted movie ever done by Kevin Smith, and it definetly has the f-word the most times. Even Silent Bob says the f-word in this! Usually the only lines out of his mouth are , Thanks, No Ticket, She brought you Lasangna, but not F**k!. This film definetly has the most cameo appearences though. This is Jay and Silent Bob's (ensemble characters in all of Smith's movies) very one feature film! The story is about Jay (Jason Mewes) and his hetero life partner Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), who after getting banned from the convenience store featured in Clerks by Dante (Brian O'Halloran) and Randal (Jeff Anderson), set out for Hollywood to destroy the movie made from their lives written by cartoon artists from Chasing Amy (Ben Affleck and Jason Lee). On the way the encounter a nun (Carrie Fisher), a perverted hitchhiker (George Carlin), a bunch of female jewelry thiefs (including Shannon Elizabeth (who Jay falls in love with), Eliza Dushku, and Ali Larter) and a weird tree hugger (Seann William Scott). Along the way to Hollywood they also get chased by a very dumb Federal Wildlife Marshall (Will Ferrel) after they get tricked into stealing a monkey from a building. When they finally get to Hollywood they find the men playing them in the movie are James Van Der Beek and American Pie's Jason Biggs, and the director of the play is Chris Rock. The film also co-stars Judd Nelson, SNL's Tracy Morgan, Jon Stewart, Jules Asner, Gus Van Zandt, Jaime Kennedy, Wes Craven, Shannon Doherty (Mallrats), Mark Hamill, The Drew Carey Show's Diedrich Bader, Renee Humphrey (Mallrats), Joey Lauren Adams (Chasing Amy, Mallrats), Alanis Morrissette, Matt Damon (Chasing Amy, Dogma) and Morris Day. This film is an alright comedy, very funny but is a little loose on plot. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Boooooooooong. sorry, i couldnt resist.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Watching back the directors commentary, Kevin Smith just about sums this film up &#145;We have made the most expensive in-movie ever'.This should be able to tell you everything you need to know about the film in one sentence. If you enjoy Smiths earlier work, go nuts. If you don't, stay away. Its got the view askew humour turned all the way up to 11.The film starts off with J&SB getting barred from the quickstop. So they go and bitch about it to brodie who tells them to buy their own quickstop with their movie cheque. It transpires that Miramax are making a Bluntman and Chronic movie and they are due some cash for image rights. After finding out that the buzz on the internet for them is not good, they decide the only way to clear their good names is to stop production of the film. And that means travelling to Hollywood.As I said, you either like it or you don't. Personally, I could watch it all day. It never fails to get a laugh and some of the dialogue just kills me.&#145;Hi, I'm Jay and this is my hetero-life-mate, Silent Bob' "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. It was funnier than Austin Powers, Scary Movie, and American Pie combined! It's about two stoners who find out a movie is being made about them and want to stop it. So they head for Hollywood to stop it. On the way Jay falls in love with a jewel thief and him and Silent Bob become fudgitives for stealing a monkey! So with every cop on their tail they somehow get to Hollywood Fight Mark Hamil Get paid for the movie and spend all the money buying plane tickets to all the houses of people who made fun of them on the internet.It's the best movie you'll ever see! "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith does it again!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't surprised to see so many people bad-mouthing this movie. Most uptight and shallow people would spit horrible diatribe about this movie. Granted, there is copious amounts of four-letter words, but it just adds to the humor. Close-minded people would hear Eff word said at least 12 times within the first five minutes of the film and just turn it off. Kevin Smith is a genius, for as vulgar as this movie is, it doesn't cross in to the pure stupidity factor, as some movies do. Therefore, as if you can't already tell, I like this movie and I give it a 10/10. No regrets. "},{"Title":"Regarding Wayne Malin's Review","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In response to the points made in the previous review...The many Kevin Smith movie jokes are meant for devoted fans, they're like his gift to us. It does not leave a first timer out in the cold.The plot though silly does follow a sequence. Jay and Silent Bob just get side tracked but if you can't keep up with it maybe you should stick to Blues Clues.The cameos in this movie were great. Do you really think that actors like Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and James Van Der Beek don't LOVE doing stuff like this? After all the serious war movies and love stories and the Creek this must be a vacation in Maui for them.Jason Lee is adorable and funny!Who is bothered by women in tight clothes? I personally enjoyed seeing Eliza Dushku in leather far more than I should have being a straight female.OK and the f word is used so often mostly because that's the way Jay is. He as always is the main dropper of the FBomb and he can't change his character now. Besides it's all in fun.I wouldn't recommend this movie to my Grandmother but anyone who doesn't mind vulgarity, sex talk and some hot chicks should love this movie. If y ou have seen other Kevin Smith films and not this then "},{"Title":"The mother of all In-Jokes....","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is straight up desert for all Kevin Smith fans. Almost every character from Kevin's first 4 films get one last dig in this one. Even God has the last word as She closes the book on the Jersey Jokers from Red Bank. I would have loved to find out what happened to Ben Affeck's character from Mallrats that surrived prison being someone's jailhouse bitch. If Clerks was high brow comedy, this was flat out slapstick. The spoofs on The Fugitive, Charlie's Angels, Mission Impossible, Scoobie Doo, Good Will Hunting, Star Wars and Scream were on point. Thank God for guys like Kevin Smith, a director  who don't take himself so seriously. "},{"Title":"Intelligent? No. Hysterical? Yes.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is going to be short because for a film like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, there is really no need for long-winded critical interpretation. Jay and Silent Bob is simply an uproarious comic rout that packs a lot of crude sexual humor and clever pop-culture references into its plot-something about Jay and Silent Bob stopping the production on a Bluntman and Chronic film. Jason Mewes and director Kevin Smith rehash their roles as the two title characters-one a foulmouthed stringbean and the other a short, stocky dude who doesn't say all that much. Packed with hysterical short almost-Laurel and Hardy-type comedy bits and sly celebrity cameos (plus ample support from Sean William Scott, Shannon Elizabeth, and the incomparable Will Ferrell), Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is not Kevin Smith's most artistically sound achievement (Chasing Amy or Dogma fits that description), but it is the type of movie that makes you smile when you think about it-an hour and a half of escapism that goes a bit beyond what you were expecting. Recommended.P.S. I have a question-why does it seem, in the movie universe created by this film, that the film Dogma didn't happen? All of Smith's other films from Clerks to Chasing Amy are presented as solid fact in the film world, but at one point you see Matt Damon (playing himself) telling Ben Affleck (playing himself) hey, you convinced me to do 'Dogma'. We know Dogma couldn't just be a movie in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back's universe because Jay and Bob were both major characters in that film-and we know from Strike Back that they have never been a part of Hollywood. Why is Dogma a work of fiction while all of the other Kevin Smith films are presented as fact in this film?  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the all time best movie, the characters are SO funny, very well written, and the acting is great. The plot is very funny, and Jay and Silent Bob make comedy SO WELL together. This is better than Dogma, and Mallrats, which Jay & Silent Bob were both in! "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has only made one good movie, and that was Clerks. In fact, Clerks was fantastic, and he's never matched it. Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back has only one or two funny moments in it, and these are delivered by the other stars who make cameos in the film... so go figure. As a parody, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back doesn't work because most of the parodies fall completely flat, or else are horribly self-indulgent. Chris Rock delivers the funniest line in the film when he says he thought up the idea of Sesame Street first and he called it NWP - Niggas with Puppets. Now THAT was funny, but little else in the movie is, sadly. Definitely a turkey, and I tried to enjoy it because I think Kevin Smith has talent. Too bad he didn't pull it off with Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back, but hey, he can probably make a dick joke about that comment anyway. "}{"Title":"very funny... for Smith afficionados.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is arguably the funniest Kevin Smith movie up to now. i laughed my ass off during the entire movie. well not entirely, maybe. the diamond heist/animal lab scene is kinda misfit into the movie, but it is saved by Shannon Elizabeth and Eliza Dushku ;)the funniest factor in the movie is of course the tons of in-jokes inserted into the movie, some spoof of other movies, and seeing those movie stars make fun of themselves. the Affleck/Damon and Van Der Beek/Biggs scenes are hilarious!but be warned, if you are NOT familiar with Kevin Smith's previous efforts, you might not catch all the jokes, thus making the movie a big jabbering nonsense, as it is the case with some reviewers here. trust me, you NEED to see Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma in order to truly appreciate the humors here. people expect parodies of popular movies, well it's not. it's a big slam-bang ending to all of Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob movies, with HUGE reference to his previous ones.clever, funny, witty, hilarious. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Will Ferrell IS the Jar-Jar Binks of this movie","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't care what Kevin Smith says, Will Ferrell was clearly the Jar-Jar Binks of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Before seeing the movie, there were quite a few actors who I felt would prove to be candidates for this honor (Shannon Elizabeth, Jason Biggs/James Van Der Beek, etc.), but none of them lived up to my expectations. Shannon Elizabeth was actually somewhat endearing as the innocent Justice (not to mention she looked better than she ever had before). James Van Der Beek was Good. Jason Biggs was stupid, but he was supposed to be stupid so it was OK. Will Ferrell, on the other hand, was just terrible. Nothing he said in this movie was funny at all. In fact, the ONLY funny thing he has ever said is It's a frigging hammer! during a Celebrity Jeopardy sketch on Saturday Night Live. Everything he says sounds forced and artificial, which causes it to lose all meaning (if it had any to begin with). Some people think he's amazing because he can say anything with a straight face and not start laughing, but the reason why is because NOTHING HE SAYS IS FUNNY! Don't get me wrong, I love Kevin Smith, and I thought the movie was hilarious (Mewes really DID do a good job), but Will Ferrell is a waste of space.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly rewatchable","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back at the cinema. When it was released on DVD I hired it overnight and watched it 4 times. Now I own it and have seen it about 10 times.While there is the occasional very low brow joke, there are so many laughs to be had during the movie. Probably the funniest scenes are the making of Bluntman and Chronic. Chris Rock may not of had much success in his big screen career so far but Chaka is a terrific role for him. If fact just about everyone in the movie is hilarious; Jason Mewes is definitely getting better, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon are terrific in their reprised roles from Good Will Hunting and Will Ferrell is great as Marshall Willenholly. Plus the chicks are incredible!While it doesn't have the bigger, more emotional stories of Kevin Smith's previous films, Jay and Silent Bob is arguably the funniest of the bunch. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Only the very clever could ever be this stupid","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Things explode. Sexy women gyrate in PVC catsuits. There are erection jokes. Fart jokes. Sewage jokes. Characters swear and shout. Dozens of celebrities appear to grin and gurn and say look ma! I'm appearing in a hip and trendy film! Some of them get beaten up.Yeah, this is a fun film. Of Smith's four preceding New Jersey movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma) its tone is most similar to Mallrats cartoonish action, bright colours and adolescent humour. Like that film, it's rambling and plotless. Unlike that film, it never really stops being entertaining long enough for the audience to notice.Jay and Silent Bob are drug dealers who hang around outside a New Jersey convenience store. In Chasing Amy their likenesses were used in a gross-out comic book for which they wound up recieving royalty payments. On discovering that a film is to be made of the now-defunct comic, they decide to head for Hollywood and stop the movie's production. On the way, they meet a super-intelligent ape being chased by an idiot ranger (a plot recycled from Smith's Chasing Dogma comic book), a band of sexy jewel thieves and virtually every major character from Smith's preceding films.The only problem is that Smith has come to rely too much on fourth-wall bashing and post-modern reference gags rather than on the witty observations and conversations that got him noticed in the first place. Characters from the previous New Jersey movies rely on their catchphrases for cheap laughs even when there's no applicable context (why are we supposed to laugh at the pretzel quote in the comic book shop? Smith knows we watch his films, we know he watches his films. Where's the joke here?) and the look out at the audience joke is used <i>twice</i> for crying out loud. This is the swansong for Smith's NJ movies, so one might expect a little bit of referencing - but does there really have to be this much? Ben Affleck plays about three hundred characters during the couse of this movie - including himself.But I'm being too anal. This is a good, silly movie. If you like Smith's other films then you'll no doubt be renting this. If you haven't seen them it's best to check them out in order. And if you hate them, why are you reading this comment at all? "},{"Title":"The Blunt leading the Blunt.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a fan of Smith's other movies, it has to be said that I really enjoyed this one. I've seen it a number of times at this stage and it definitely stands up to repeated viewing. Non-fans of Kevin Smith's work will find little to enjoy here as some prior knowledge to his previous movies is required to fully enjoy this flick. Some have criticised it for being a no-brainer of a film, no more then a series of stoner and fart jokes. Admittedly, it does contain one of the worst fart jokes ever committed to celluloid but, strangely, it also contains one of the most elaborate! But I can forgive Kevin Smith for opting for the no-brainer option after the heavy subject matter he dealt with in Dogma, as well as the resulting criticism. Also, I have to admit to being quite partial to the occasional dumb-ass comedy! All in all, 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' brings with it the promise of good foul-mouthed fun and an array of cameo appearances from stars from Mark Hammil to Jason Biggs. Enjoy...  "},{"Title":"A fast witty film parodying everything in sight","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A funny movie that parodies on anything it could get its hand on.  Literally a laugh every scene.  Getting many of the stars to parody themselves, including Ben Affleck playing dual roles as himself and his old character Holden McNeil.  Hilarous characters like Chris Rock playing this white hating director that works on a all white movie.I thought the whole animal rescue scene was a little too much of a sidetrack and detracted from the journey.  The constant parody of hollywood and its films might seem to veer away from Kevin Smith's usual movies of other subjects, and parodying films seems to be too enticing subject to do, often being overdone and too easy to make it very simplistic and imitative.  So it could be a slippery slope that the makers of the film might want to watch out for.The movie is still a good laugh, with multiple viewings required to catch all the little things being said or done.  "},{"Title":"awesome!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This show rocks ~! bloody funny and they really did a good job of spoofing other hit movies!Sexy, raunchy, lame but funny show..10/10 a must watch@! "},{"Title":"Bang good movie","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You stupid fart smelling motherfokker belowe. I think it's a good movie. Comedy is for everybody different .. so next time speak for yoself. Aightthe man from amsterdam "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those films where if you enjoy the first five minutes then you will enjoy the film in its entirity.It is also a film that requires many repeat viewings just so you can catch every visual gag or movie connection.Good to see that many stars are prepared to laugh at themselves ,Ben Affleck and Matt Damon especially. "},{"Title":"funniest film of 2002","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having watched the other kevin smith films, Mallrats Chasing amy etc and not really liking these films myself i thought jay and silent bob strike back would be another boring stupid movie. never have my preconceptions been so bad. This is easily the funniest film of 2002.The beginning with Jay singing is hilarious. no matter how hard you try not like this movie you will end up in stitches. Ok so alot of the humour is immature but some of the scenes are in a class of their own, A kind of modern day cheech and chong and probably as funny. "}{"Title":"I was gonna watch this movie, but then I got high....8/10","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chris Rock turns in a masterpiece cameo......got more white chix in my trailor than the first lifeboat off the Titanic.  He nails this sort of role.  All the cameos were very well delivered.  Gotta luv the gratuitous cleavage chix bending over for us....now that is the sort of shot we should be seeing of Hoolia Roberts, then she would be worthy of exposure too.  And Jay is so comfy in front of the camera, makes me wonder if he can cross over from this character into another role.  Or is he just playing himself?  Dunno.  Agree with most other comments so far, Banky should have had more lines, you will love this flick if you like Kev Smith's previous films, etc.  Great video rental so you can rewind to catch some more of the funny lines. "},{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had already seen Chasing Amy, and thank god. The amount of references was immense. This was however not a bad thing. The parodies of other films, and pretty much all of the rest of the jokes were fantastic. This was easily the funniest film I've ever seen, and I always thought that the Austin Powers series could never be topped. Pure classness by all of the creators! "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny, Funny","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie was terrific, if your a big Kevin Smith fan.  I, for one, think Kevin Smith is a genius, when it comes to comedy, and some drama.It was an easy going flick(if you don't mind cursing), with a lot of cameo's, and some great jokes.  A 9/10 "},{"Title":"Laughed a lot","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've enjoyed every Kevin Smith film I've seen, and yet I still found myself surprised by Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.Incorporating characters from all of his previous movies, Smith constructs a flimsy, irrelevant plot to stitch together his scenes. And that's fine. Anything more is unnecessary and would probably have just cluttered the freewheeling, good-time script.Really, I'm not sure why I found this film so amusing. The setup is basic, the jokes are juvenile, and the performances are...WAIT! That's it! The performances!Am I saying anyone here got robbed of an Oscar? No. But am I saying that everyone, especially Jason Mewes, buys into what they're doing totally. It looks like they had a blast filming it, and that silly joy radiates from the film.Put it this way. If you liked the Kevin Smith films before this, you'll like this one. And if you didn't, why the hell would you go near this thing? "},{"Title":"Funny, Smart, Rude and Crude","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The final part of the New Jersy series, and what a way to end it. Jay and Silent Bob have only ever had bit parts, and only got a true role in Dogma, and here the jokes keep on flying at constant speed. Its true that many of the films jokes center around gay jokes, but this film was never meant to be offensive, and you have to remember that many jokes like this have been carried through all of Smiths films.The plot, ah yes the plot, is a little thin, but reunites us with many old friends, such as Holden & Brodie. It basicly center's around Jay & Silent Bob finding out that a film is being made about the superhero's that they are the basis for, and worse still, they're not getting the likeness rights they are owned. but it gets worse for the stoners, they then find out that they (or their characters are being bad-mouthed on a internet chat room), so then its off to Hollywood to stop the movie. The plot expands from this point onwards. It gets a little confusing after an hour, and you ask yourself why are they really going to Hollywood, but it all blends together in the end.This really is a good, funny movie. It is important not to take this film seriously, as its purely about the jokes. And finally our heros get the ending they deserve.Btw, if you hate the film, try and watch it, or at least till the 'planet of the apes conspiracy' scene. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest...","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Finally they got their own movie. Kevin Smith is an incredible director and Jason Mewes just fits perfectly into his role... I can't imagine anyone else playing Jay. This movie still makes me laugh, although I must have seen it like a thousand times. "},{"Title":"very funny!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never really watched any Kevin Smith movies before but my best friend was telling me how funny they were.I watched Mallrats and thought it was good and dogma was great too.Then I rented Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back..the first scene to the last is hysterical!I love the characters and the jokes are too funny and I love the cameo's..Will Ferrel is the best!One of my fav. parts is when Jay and Silent Bob go to Holden's place and look on the website and talk about Ben Affleck,I thought that was so cute!Also I love Ben Affleck and he was also very funny.Kevin Smith did a great job once again.I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Never say a con word about Jay and Silent Bob","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ladies, Ladies,Ladies,Jay and Silent Bob are in the hiz-ouz!!!!!!!!!!!!! Jay and Silent Bob finally star in their own movie,and it is a success!Jay and silent Bob strike back is one of the funniest movies out there. It has a great all-star cast and continues off of favorites like chasing amy and clerks.They R sickness and I love them!... ...BONG!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"MAGNOLIA FAN WEIGHS IN","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok...so like right away I'm doing what they're poking fun at...however, I'd be remiss if I didn't take the opportunity to state that this film is worth seeing (if for no other reason) for the following1) Affleck and Damon's cameos2) Four chicks in latex catsuits...life don't get no better than this3) Alanis' return as God (she's there...just wait)4) Kevin Smith's mugging for the camera (hey..this guy could be the    next replacement for Nathan Lane in The Producers..somebody find    out if he's available for weddings, bar-mitzvahs and Broadway, ok?5) Chris Rock doing his thing.The in-jokes and movie send-ups are a riot (Vanderbeecks's doesn't anyone watch the WB? is a neat little aside.) Jersey represent, indeed. Infantile? Yeah. But still funny as hell. It's got a good beat and you can dance to it. I'll give it a 75, Dick. This movie does not lick balls..so don't show up at my house, ok guys? "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but its OK.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was disappointing at first because I didn't find most of the jokes funny (Not that I didn't understand them or anything.) Its just I though MallRats was way better and this one, well, it wasn't as good. I recommend you see something different like Chasing Amy, Dogma, Clerks, or MallRats and save this one for cable. "}{"Title":"Loudly Hilarious!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay & Silent Bob are finally making sure they are heard for good! Yes, they did deposit the laughs in `Clerks', they were scene stealers in `Mallrats, 'les' be serious they should have appeared more in `Chasing Amy', and  they were about one of the few bright spots of `Dogma' (sorry Kevin). Now finally director Kevin Smith has crafted a film headlining Jay & Silent Bob. Smith, who directed all the aforementioned films, is definitely one of the craftiest young minds of Hollywood.  `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is the final film in Smith's `View Askew' Jersey saga. If you are a fan of Smith's films, then you are going to love the hilarious antics of `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back'. Even though is the less intellect of all of Smith's Jersey films , it is the one with the highest laughs. Jason Mewes is `highlarious' as Jay- everybody's favorite pot-smoking, sex-crazed, foul-mouthed, intellect-challenged Jersey boy. Once again, Smith makes quite a noise as Silent Bob. The plot is about... (wait a second, who cares what the plot is about? ) this a one big Smith party as he bring us back some of the characters from his latter films Dante the Clerk, lesbian-lover Holden Mcneil, obnoxious Banky Edwards, Miss Alyssa Jones, and if you stay til the end your prayers will be answered when Alanis Morissette shows up once again as God. Isn't that ironic?  Anyways, Smith also had the good will to cast Ben Affleck & Matt Damon as themselves. `Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back' is one of the funniest films you will see all year. Ok time for me to hit the `jay' I mean the `hay' and be `silent'.  ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"Brilliant ending to the Jersey saga.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the quintessential inside comedy. Basic plot outline Jay and Silent Bob, the lovable (ummm, well, that's debatable) stoner duo from the ViewAskew productions series (encompassing Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma, and now JASBSB. I really recommend you watch them in chronological order.) find out there is a movie being made about the comic book characters Bluntman & Chronic, which are based on Our Heroes themselves. They get to see an Internet comment board about movies and read all the people bitch and moan about the upcoming movie and the stupid brainless characters in much the same style as some of the reviews here (oh the irony). Feeling personally insulted, they decide to go to Hollywood to stop the movie from being made. Hilarity and vast amounts of movie references ensue. What makes this film so brilliant are all the cameo appearances of previous ViewAskew characters and the vast amounts of inside jokes, combined with the situations Jay and Silent Bob are facing.  We finally learn how the mysterious Susanne from the Mallrats ending credits fits into the whole plot, for instance. All in all, this movie is the perfect wrap-up to the Jay & Silent Bob series. I can definitely say that I'm going to miss these guys. "},{"Title":"It's hunting season...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only element of this film I didn't like was the fart related humour.. if Smith had removed it, in my humble opinion, it would have made it that much better... ok, now, beyond that.. I loved it... some brilliant self parody... It b**chslapped that 'not even laughable' attempt at a Scooby Doo film.. great cast, and it's cool to be able to see a reunion of the characters from the different films.. really giving the feel of the continuum.. Jay and Silent Bob rule in this film... 3rd fav Kevin Smith film, just behind Chasing Amy and Dogma.. Plus, it has Eliza Dushka.. and if she isn't reason enough, I don't know what is..It's one of those films you just got to loosen up and have fun with, because clearly the cast is having a blast. The dialogue has several self made 'classic' lines that are delivered to perfection, Will Ferill, who I'd only seen in Austin Powers, I finally see the appeal of his humour in the way he brings it to the screen.. More cameos than you can shake a boot at, and even more people that wanted 'in' but never got that chance... maybe next time.. Smith seems to be a cool director to work for, and I hope some day I'll get the chance.DVD If the film and commentary weren't enough, it's got tons of extra features including deleted/extended scenes, each with introductions.. couple music videos (though I'm not particular to the kicking ass song.. it was appropriate for the end of the film.. the other video, however has a hilarious song..).. still gallery/story boards/and the numerous designs for the Jay and Silent Bob poster (I could have sworn there were like 20+).. Also, bios on the cast and crew, and an article about Morris Day and the Time... Trailers, too, of Chasing Amy, Clerks, as well as the two internet spots for Jay and Silent Bob...Anyway, if you're a fan of Kevin Smith.. this one is a must for your collection.. I also have a special effection for the film as I put it together in Texas at the Missouri City cinema outside of Houston.. I even played it that thursday it came in, in place of the last showing of American Outlaws, which had no one coming to.. Originally, I was going to replace Ghosts of Mars, as that was the same projector I built it on.. but someone actually bought a ticket.. so, since the projector with American Outlaws had only 2 working brains (not the removable kind), I had to unthread it, move it down to the bottom, then move Jay and Silent Bob over from the next projector over... then, afterwards, move it back... Anyway, through it's like 2 week run, maybe longer, I watched it many times.. had a blast. "},{"Title":"Mega-Crap","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, if you dare call it that, is mega-crap. There are maybe three funny scenes in the entire movie, and the laughs are all supplied by the supporting cast. The Good Will Hunting II Hunting Season scene is great, as well as Chris Rock's 5 minutes in the movie, but other than that. Ben Affleck pretty much had it right when he said that Jay and Silent Bob are nothing more than a third rate Cheech and Chong who rely on the same dick and fart jokes. Skip this picture. Skip any Smith picture that is not Dogma now that I think about it. "},{"Title":"Not as intellectual as the rest of Smith's work, but still very funny","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith finally gives us a movie all about Jay and Silent Bob. The movie is very funny, the cast is amazing (who's not in this movie??) and it does make a nice endpiece to the View Askew movie series. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a bit different from Smith's other work, because it doesn't seem to be as intellectually stimulating as say Dogma or Chasing Amy. But this is a very good thing, because in this movie, watchers can just sit back and laugh almost the entire way through Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I loved this movie as much as anything else Kevin Smith has ever done. The references to all the other Smith movies were great and it was fun to see all the characters again. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Place in Smith evolution... not in  cinematic history","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I comment on all of Kevin Smith's films because I'm a fan.  So if Ihad to rate them, this one brings up the rear (no that's not a cheapgay joke - I'll leave those to Jason Mewes).  It sits at the bottomcuddling with Mallrats as two films cut from the same cloth - that ofmovies who's cleverness comes from their concepts.I'm not a fan of easy humour - especially cheap drug humour.. butAmerica is (Smith himself said that he never planned on making afilm starring Jay and Silent Bob, but America kept requestingone!).  The reason this film is clever in spite of that, as you wouldexpect from a great dialogue writer and quirky concept writer asSmith is, is that it follows the Mallrats tradition of taking thehomage genre to an innovative place.This movie is not great, even for Smith, but the idea is.  Smithloves to make films that reference the genres he grew up on(Mallrats is his tribute to John Hughes and John Landis), so this issimply his Naked Gun or Hot Shots.  The difference is that,where those movies parodied the popular films of their time, Jay &SB references Smith's own films and the films of his starsexclusively.  That alone makes this film hilarious!  I mean, hebrought Matt Damon & Ben Affleck to the world through their rolesin his earlier films and by producing Good Will Hunting... so whynot have them parody themselves now that they are both richerthan he is?!!!  Want to poke some fun at American Pie? - Then do itwith Jason Biggs and Shannon Elizabeth!  Want to take a shot atthe teen genre as it has progressed since you did it with Mallrats?- Get James Vanderbeek to poke fun at Dawson's Creek!This movie is funny because of the realization of Smith's concept. In that way, even though Jay and Bob are the stars, they are stilljust suporting the real comedy which comes from the bit players. Add in satirical references to every one of your own movies, cast allof your previous stars in at least one scene and you have thereason that Kevin Smith is still better than his movies (in thiscase), and remains better for movies than most people makingmovies today.  Great movie... no.  Nice addition to the Kevin Smithevolution and library... yup. "},{"Title":"Funny Kevin Smith Film about the two most famous stoners since Cheech And Chong!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike back is funny as hell! It is about two stoners Jay and Bob find out a comic Bluntman And Chornic which is based on them. Got sold to Mirmax to become a big film. But as soon a the internet peeps find out. They start making fun of Jay and Bob aka Bluntman and Chornic (somehow they find out there names). Jay and Bob meet up with Lesbien theives,A monkey, A funny animal officer, and i cant tell you more just go buy it or rent it! "},{"Title":"Mr. Smith Does It Again!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay & Silent Bob are finally making sure they are heard for good! Yes, they did deposit the laughs in `Clerks', they were scene stealers in `Mallrats, Les' be serious they should have appeared more in `Chasing Amy', and holy jesus they were about one of the few bright spots of `Dogma' (sorry kevin). Now finally Director Kevin Smith has crafted a film headlining Jay & Silent Bob. Smith, who directed all the aforementioned films, is definitely one of the craftiest young minds of hollywood.  `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is the final film in Smith's `View Askew' Jersey saga. If you are a fan of Smith's films, then you are going to love the hilarious antics of `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back'. Even though is the less intellect of all of Smith's Jersey films , it is the one with the highest laughs. Jason Mewes is `highlarious' as Jay- everybody's favorite pot-smoking, sex-crazed, foul-mouthed, intellect-challenged Jersey boy. Once again, Smith makes quite a noise as Silent Bob. The plot is about... (wait a second, who cares what the plot is about? ) This a one big Smith party as he bring us back some of the characters from his latter films Dante the Clerk, lesbian-lover Holden Mcneil, obnoxious Banky Edwards, Miss Alyssa Jones, and if you stay til the end your prayers will be answered when Alanis Morissette shows up once again as God. Isn't that ironic?  Anyways, Smith also had the good will to cast Ben Affleck & Matt Damon as themselves. `Jay and Silent Bob strike ack' is one funniest films you will see all year. Ok time for me to hit the `jay' i mean `hay' and be `silent'. ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"Hilarious but disappointing...","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith's first four movies were full of humorous situations, good unknown actors right along side of well known actors who appear fairly humble about being next to the no-names, subtle jokes as well as hilarious gags, and of course an interesting web of allusions to each other. J&SBSB ruins all of that.  The premise and situations are boring and overused. Half the movie is an awful parade-of-stars who look like they're just there for the screen time and a paycheck.  I thought Kevin Smith would have been beyond doing that crap.  It was full of slapstick and 4th grade humor, which really doesn't work coming from View Askew.  And finally, the attempts at allusion are all very forced and unnatural. (the Chocolate covered pretzel line was COMPLETELY out of place and, well, lame.)But...  I own the movie, it's very funny.  I just wish parts of it didn't make me cringe. "},{"Title":"'Jay and Silent Bob' go out with a hilarious bang in their final outing.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith wrote and directed this laugh riot of a movie, which he claims to be the last of the View Askew franchise.  Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith) discover that a movie is being made from a comic book titled Bluntman and Chronic, from which they were the inspiration for.  In addition to that, there's a lot of trash talking about them on the internet.  So what are they to do?  They decide to go to Hollywood and stop production of the movie and end the online slander.  Along the way, they run into jewel thieves, obnoxious cops, gay jokes, movie references (too many of those), and many (funny) cameo appearances.  Look for George Carlin, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek, Shannon Elizabeth, Chris Rock, Alanis Morissette, and Star Wars veterans Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill. It may be dumb and vulgar but you will be too busy laughing to even care. On the other hand, if hearing the f-word bothers you then stay away.  Kevin Smith's fans won't be disappointed.  My evaluation *** out of ****.  "}{"Title":"GOOD AND DUMB","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was stupid but funny at the same time. i saw this when it came out in theaters. And it was funny stuff. Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith did a good performance.. They picked out good women also.. But see this movie if you like Cheech and Chong. Funny drug humor too.. "},{"Title":"Well, at least the cameos are interesting...","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I only saw Dogma, and not any of the other Kevin Smith movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy) and as such I may have missed a lot of in-jokes this movie is supposedly filled with.The jokes in this movie that I did understand are for the most part quite poor. Half of the jokes seems to revolve around saying the F-word, and the other half is related to jokes about gay people. OK, that's pushing it a bit, but after the often quite intellectual jokes in Dogma, it's a shame that this movie is filled with such a lot of immature humour. The movie also spoofs some well-known movies like Star Wars, ET, the Fugitive, Scream etc. Most of these spoofs aren't very good either, but at least it's fun to look for them. Most interesting part of this movie are the very frequent cameos..Carry Fisher as a nun, Mark Hamill as a super-villain called Cock Knocker, Shannon Doherty (aaaaaaaaaargh) and of course Ben Affleck and Matt Damon.  Overall, I think this movie is watchable, although it's filled with predictable and immature jokes. Looking for spoofs and cameos should keep you busy, and to be fair, there are some very good jokes. Just don't expect too much.** out of ****  "},{"Title":"3/5th Dogma","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  3/5th Dogma **Negative review warning, I did not like this film** I liked Dogma, it's a good movie, witty, radical, provocative and funny too. This comparison is probably the main reason that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, (JSBSB) fell short of the mark in my opinion. The problem is when people try to frantically push the envelope too hard and end up going from radical to raunch ( a very thin line). Like The Blair Witch Project, JSBSB could have been rated MPAA PG and cut down to 60 minutes if a certain four-letter word was removed. The best line of the film was near the beginning of the film when Jay was upstaged by his lower half and from then on the dialog and plot went downhill. Many of the jokes, in a blatant attempt to shock the audience, were predictable and painful to watch. Not wanting to have a totally bad review, there were some islands of interest in JSBSB. Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season, was somewhat funny and Mark Hamill parodying Star Wars was fair. I recommend that people should watch Dogma then JSBSB to experience two extremes of movie quality. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob A vulgar, yet hilarious and smart movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I rented this, the only View Askew movie I'd seen was Clerks, and that was years ago.  I was worried that would make this movie less funny than if I'd seen all of the View Askew movies.  Luckily, most of the humor in the movie can be understood by anyone.  You just need to know basic info, like the main characters, and a main idea or two, in Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.  As everybody has mentioned, this is a very vulgar movie.  If you don't like hearing constant vulgarity, then don't watch this movie.  But if you enjoy movies like South Park Bigger, Longer, and Uncut, and you remember the fact that the vulgar language isn't much worse than what you and your friends usually say to each other, then you'll find this movie to be hilarious.  But, it's not just another movie filled with swearing, like Freddy Got Fingered.  Instead, it's a brilliant in-joke of a movie that pays tribute (and parodies) such movies and shows as Land of the Lost, Moonraker, E.T., Good Will Hunting, the Star Wars series (obviously), among many other examples, and filled with countless cameos by well-known faces.  The two leads in the movie are hilarious.  While Jay gets all of the lines, just watching some of Silent Bob's schtick is great, like the subtle joke in the movie of Bob trying to be a gentleman and helping out some ladies, but having little success (after seeing the movie, you'll know what I mean).  The rest of the main actors do an admirable job, and don't mail in their performances.If you are the type who blanches at vulgar language, or are easily offended, then don't watch this movie.  But for the rest of us, you'll get to see a great flick that is fun to watch, doesn't take itself too seriously, and is just entertaining.  By the way, rent the DVD version, because it is filled with extras, and many deleted and changed scenes. "},{"Title":"Great for everyone, even better for Kevin Smith fans","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***Spoilers***This is one brilliant comedy!!! It's not an intelligent story like Kevin Smith's Dogma or a romantic one like Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy (Which are both great movies!), but it's a truly funny, slapstick like comedy full of profanity, stupidity and so on...The two main characters (well the only main characters really) are Jay (portrayed by Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (portrayed by Kevin Smith). For people who aren't familiar with these two characters I'll try to give a short summary of these characters.Jay and Silent Bob are two stupid stoners who spent their entire lives selling weed in front of a local convenience store in Jersey. Jay talks fast and filthy... and a lot. Silent Bob is... the silent one. He's clearly the smarter one although he is not too smart himself either.The story line (if it needs one) is simple. Jay and Silent Bob find out there is a movie being made about Bluntman and Chronic, two comic heroes who are based on them. The result of this being that people on the internet are badmouthing Jay and Silent Bob because they are... well, stupid. This makes them pretty angry and they decide to go to Holywood to stop this movie from being made.The acting in this movie is pretty good. The main characters (portrayed by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) are well played and it surprised me to see that Jason Mewes was able to carry the weight of a complete movie on his shoulders. Kevin Smith played excellent too. The subtlety of his character is just plain funny. There are a lot of great smaller parts too. I especially liked Ben Affleck. By playing the parts he plays in this movie he is showing that he isn't taking himself too serious (which is a good thing, especially for an actor). There are a lot of great cameos in this movie too and they are simply too much too mention but I'll name a few Mark Hamill (in a great Star Wars parody), Carry Fisher (Princess Leia as a nun!) and Jason Biggs (Hey aren't you the guy who f***ed the pie?).It's well directed too and this movie is especially great for Kevin Smith fans. It will recognize all sorts of characters from previous movies and some places too (like seeing the Mooby-restaurants!).All in all this is probably the funniest movie for years. It's pure, uncomplicated fun which will amuse everyone who likes rude language ).My score 9/10 "},{"Title":"Just Plain Lousy","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If the idea was to make a movie so bad we'd be more than happy to see Jay and Silent Bob go then THIS IS IT and WE ARE!  Barely a chuckle from this one, search far and wide and to the ends of the earth and you'll not find humor or cameos cornier or dumber than this. Jay and Silent Bob are bit character's at best anyway and they reached their pinnacle in Dogma. This was just  beating a dead horse, couldn't their burial have been more merciful for them and us alike? It would be good to see Kevin Smith go on to make something that lives up to the potential seen in Clerks.    "},{"Title":"I would expect more from Kevin Smith","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I really loved this movie and found myself laughing uncontrollably more than once. But I think I would have enjoyed it much much more if I had seen it before any of the other Kevin Smith movies. Clerks and Mallrats were so much better in terms of intellectual humor. I didn't expect much from this movie, but I feel like a little more could have gone into it. I thought that Smith went for way too many cheap laughs. Maybe this is what happens when independent films go mainstream. Dante's repeated I wasn't supposed to be here today. Got old very fast. It looked as though all the repeat characters except Brodie (who I would have liked to have seen more of) became caricatures of their former selves. Dante and Randall really p***ed me off in this one. There were many points such as the We're walking talking bad-girl cliches bit were pure crap. But I loved the Clit master bit. It's sad though, that Jay who even hinted once that he may be a bit on the gay side, would become so homophobic. It also seems as though Jay is always working against Silent Bob rather than working with him. And the references to how much this movie sucked didn't help. All in all, it's best enjoyed by someone who hasn't seen the others and likes cheap gay jokes. Still, I think it was better than most of the Hollywood trash out there.8 of 10 starsSnoochie Poochie Noochies "},{"Title":"Bong!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, I am not a Kevin Smith fan. Clerks and Chasing Amy I  didn't really care for, and while Dogma was good, it was mostly due to one man, and that man is Jason Mewes, who is always going to be the best thing in any Kevin Smith film. Sure, he's crude and profane, but the same thing can be said for most of my friends, who are also completely hilarious. And, since Jay is pretty much nearly the whole show here, and since the movie is at its core is just a good-time, wacky style comedy, it's largely free of the over-written, speechifying quality that brought down Smith's earlier films. More than a few gags in the film fall flat, but that's to be expected. When Jay's on screen though, which is most of the time, prepare for some serious hilarity. "},{"Title":"One of Kevin Smith's best","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is an excellent film if you're into in-jokes and movie parodies like me. Most of the humour comes from recognising the in-jokes from Kevin Smith's other movies (Dogma, Clerks, Chasing Amy, etc.), so it's best to see them before seeing this one. Jay and Silent Bob make a hilarious duo and there are lots of funny cameos. Those who loathe sex jokes and crude language should be warned though You're missing out on a lot.A hilarious movie, definitely among Kevin Smith's best so far. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movie Ever Made","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has everything that the Great Kevin Smith contains when directing any of his movie.  If you did not see any of the first 4 movies maybe that's why you didn't like it.  The Casting was great and the dialouge followed.  You shouldn't rent this movie you should buy it "}{"Title":"Silly","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is SILLY. SILLY.SILLY.Some folks don't get silly, but for those who do you'll be watching this over and over and over again. I hardly every watch movie 10 times, but this one I have since I got it on DVD and I'm still watching it. There is so much going on, so much flat out SILLY humor.This humor is the lowest of the low, silliest of the silly. But it has NEVER been done to such perfection. Let yourself just relax, let down your PC guards, and laugh yourself silly. If you don't find this funny don't blame Kevin Smith, blame your parents for making you so uptight. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After writing about overworked youth inClerks,teen angst inMallrats,quirky romance inChasing Amyand religion inDogma,Kevin Smith goes for low-brow humor inJay and Silent Bob Strike Back.This is his best movie so far,full of great cameos,hilarious humor,great plot,very fast paced and very funny.Also includes charecters and references from Smith's other movies.All in all JASB was the funniest comedy of 2001.10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece (or something....)!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has really outdone himself with this HILARIOUS movie that is supposed to have ended the Jay and Silent Bob series (a dirty rumor I hope). This movie is the perfect dream for all Jay and Silent Bob fans aka Bluntman and Chrionic (see Chasing Amy). The movie is filled with hilarious inside jokes for all fans, such as Mooby World from Dogma, and the whole Bluntman and Chronic story from CHasing Amy. Kevin Smith is truly an amazingly creative independent film director/writer and is always true to his fellow actors, which you see a lot in more than one movie, such as Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Joey Adams, Jason Lee, ect. ect. ect. As a satisfied viewer of all Kevin Smith films, I'm excited and anxious to see Jersey Girl (Jennifer Lopez in a Kevin Smith film? Ohhhhh Boy....)! Anyways, watch the movie if your looking for a good time! It deserves a million thumbs up/stars! "},{"Title":"God Awful!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And it pains me to say that, because I love Jay & Silent Bob just as much as the next person. I agree with the previous poster who said that J&SB aren't cool anymore. But then I think that might've been Kevin Smith's intention here, to bury and kill J&SB. I just wish he hadn't done it with such a lousy movie. Why go out with a whimper when you can go out with a bang? I don't think I laughed even once. The jokes here were lame and corny. So were the cameos. In this case, Kevin Smith certainly didn't save the best for last. One word disappointing. Spare yourself, and just go watch Clerks and Mallrats for the millionth time if you really want to laugh your butt off! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of a Comedy.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Packed full of hilarious gags and cameos from big name actors, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is simply a masterpiece. Director Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) has announced that this is the last outing for stoners Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob in any of his films, and there couldn't have been a better farewell film. The acting courtesy of Jason Mewes is astounding as I was mythed to see if he could carry a film by himself, seeing as co-star Kevin Smith barely spoke. Cameos from Wes Craven, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Will Ferrell, Chris Rock and Mark Hamill (amongst others) fits perfectly into the film and give it that little bit of edge over its competition. Shannon 'Nadia' Elizabeth is the eye-candy in this film and is Jay's love interest in this film (Shannon plays Justice, one of the sexy leather clad diamond thieves). There was a lot of controversy over this film, but come on, this is brilliant. Those big name critics just act like scared sheep when it comes to films that makes references to genders, sexes, races etc. etc. In this film it's all very tongue in cheek and it's bloody hilarious. A must see film.  "},{"Title":"Didn't Like It First Time Round","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I watched Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back I really was disappointed, it just seemed a cameo fest that didn't go anywhere but on second viewing it got better and better.I don't think one particular person really stands out in this film because there are just so many none people are known.It was a nice way to close the adventures to those crazy kids Jay and Mr. Silent Bob! "},{"Title":"Plays like the beavis and butthead movie, only much more boring!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Jay and Silent Bob, but they have never, and will never be, as good as they were in 'mallrats'. This film has a pretty much identical plot to the beavis and butthead movie, only with lots more swearing, sex and drug references! The main problem with this movie is that it tries too hard to be funny - Smith disturbingly makes references to every single other of his films, disturbingly blurring the line between reality. Jay is the main highlight of this film, and he could be funny without even trying! Smith tries too hard to be amusing, and this film moves a too rapid a pace, to ever be really funny. It's not a bad film, but Smith should have made it less obvuious that he was ripping off the beavis and butthead movie! See that instead, while not as crude, it is far more amusing! "},{"Title":"Clearly, this movie offends some! But it ain't dumb!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A filthy potty mouth of a movie. And it is glorious! I love this very smart movie. It is not stupid, it is filthy! Do not equate filthy with stupid. It is not destructive in its language, just filthy. Look at South Park The Movie, Filthy! Funny! It's a satire on the overall dumb, scatological, movie market. It is a movie-movie, a Mad, mad, mad, mad, mad World kind of movie. It is tribute to the road movie staple. A parody of the stoner movie. I makes sense of the senselessness that pervades much of what is condidered teen movie fare.JSBSB did not insult me. Its language may be insulting to some (f****** A!) but at least it did not insult my intelligence. And it is not cruel towards its characters. And its homophobe tag is mistaken. It lets us in on the joke at the point of encounter with George Carlin's character, when he points out the blurred line between gay and straight. Oh, and by the way... Dis joint is the f****** mad s***! A f******, m*****f****** funny f******, movie, f***, yeah!!   The DVD has great features and outtakes!  "},{"Title":"Best since Clerks","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great comedy. Kevin Smith has harnessed his skills and humor in this movie. Jay is hilarious and don't forget that Will Ferrell is in this too. Countless cameos, but probably 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' would be more appreciated by the ones who have seen the previous Kevin Smith movies.10/10 "},{"Title":"A lot going on here","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My intro to the Kevin Smith oeuvre was Dogma; the first time I saw it I was shocked and put off by the degree of profanity and religious sacrilege, I went around telling everyone how it was the worst movie I'd ever seen...until by accident I saw it again...and again. Slowly I discovered the underrated and too-oft maligned genius of Smith. When JSBSB came out, I was hooked for good.  While not the best movie I've ever seen, for its genre it's exceptional - the wit, satire, and of course writing are masterful and ultimately hilarious because all of it is TRUE.  Earlier this week I went to the video store to rent Clerks. At the checkout, the well--er, CLERK (a surfer type with an enviably long, beautiful black ponytail and what appeared to be a lazy eye, but no matter) said,Oh man, are you a Kevin Smith fan? Because this ROCKS. You will so love this. One of his other cohorts, intrigued by our conversation, asked,I've never seen that, is it good? The young man turned to her and with admirable patience said,Ohman, you are SO fired!  How can you work in a video store and never have seen Clerks?!  It quickly devolved into a near-transcendental discussion sprinkled with stream of conscious references to Bruce Lee, Denzel Washington, Spiderman, and Charlton Heston -- and expletives of course. The whole thing was so damn bizarre, I kept waiting for Jay and Silent Bob to roll in.Needless to say, I am now a devotee of Kevin Smith--he's a brilliant talent. So some of the comments here don't exactly agree--to the extent that a few reviewers swear they will never see another Smith movie again--and that's okay. It's not for me to try to convince anyone otherwise. It is what it is.  For my part, I don't plan to miss out on any future ViewAskiew projects--I'd like to watch Smith continue to grow as an artist, offend and delight, be innovative and original, and most of all, never play it safe.  If his work offends or angers people, they're missing the point.  It's not about being above selling out to big Hollywood money, being right, or having to something to prove. It's about telling or better yet SHOWWING it like it is, the human condition, warts and all.  That apparently takes courage in today's uptight, hyper-politically correct if hypocritically moral climate. Don't kill the messenger, ya know? From now on, I will never be able to walk into a video/convenience/record/etc. store, argue with my significant other, hang out in the breakroom and talk about nothing with my friends and coworkers, without sometimes thinking about one of Smith's movies. They make me think about how all at once surreal, ugly, and beautiful life can really be.They make me THINK, period.  "}{"Title":"Only the best movie ever!!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The was the first Kevin Smith movie that I ever saw, and I can honestly say that I am now a die hard Kevin Smith fan. After seeing this comedy masterpiece, I went out and bought the whole 5 movie set. A great movie and I recommend it to anyone who actually has a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Is this the funniest movie of the past couple of years?","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Probably. (but then again, I'm an extremely biased Kevin Smith fan.) Just watch it for all the fantastic in - jokes, take - offs and Ben Affleck's great ability to really laugh at himself. Snootchie Bootchies. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I mean seriously, what do ya'll complain about? the f-word? I mean what the f***? of course the word isn't as strong for me as it is for an english speaking person but anyways...Well onto the movie, it's DAMN funny, if you haven't seen any other Kevin Smith movies and don't have a clue to what jay is about you might be disappointed, but if you (as I) LOVE Jay for his stupidness you will laugh your ass off watching this movie, every line he says are brilliant in their jerkish way =)And I don't think it's fair to say that if you like stupid movies you'll like this this isn't really a stupid move, sure Jay is stupid, but that's what so funny, that a person can be this stupid, it's not as much the things he do, but that he actually does them =) "},{"Title":"Good grief, what a joke!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back has to be the single most idiotic movie I've ever had the misfortune of watching. I don't mind the excessive cursing and name-calling in R-rated movies, but there was way too much in this movie. Five minutes into it, I already lost count how many time the F word was used. The only funny part to me was that reporter reading aloud Jay's post on a movie bashing website with the words expletive deleted used about ten times. "},{"Title":"Snoodgie Boodgies","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely Kevin Smith's best creation of them all. Though it isn't recommended for young teens, that's who's gonna like it the most. So if your looking for a comedy so funny and outrageous, get Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. It may be the last movie featuring Jay and Silent Bob, the characters, so get it.ARAF/Crimson Guard "},{"Title":"Doesn't like film because too crude and stupid.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is poor. There are plenty of knock offs of other movies and quite a few funny parts but really, it is a third grade movie that has no meaning and waist of talented actors, money and time. They at least recognize the fact that there movie stinks. With the amount of swearing and sexual references in this movie, you have to be quite comfortable with all of it if you want to enjoy the movie and jokes. Overall, come and get me Jay and Silent Bob, I think your movie sucks, so come and bash the crap out of me. "},{"Title":"Funny, but movie-length is a stretch","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big Kevin Smith fan, and Dogma and Chasing Amy are among my favorite movies.  I love the Jay and Silent Bob characters in Smith's other films, but I just don't think they're developed enough to really fill out this full-length movie, and sometimes they get a little too one-tracky.  Also, the story itself is was pretty thin.  The movie is saved by its humor, with numerous laugh-out-loud moments.  Overall, 6 of 10 stars.  Skip it in the theater, but worth the rental if you're a Smith fan. "},{"Title":"A proper send off for independent film's most notorious figures....","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Synopsis Upon learning of their (mis)fortune that the comic book based on them, is now being turned into a feature film, Jay and Silent Bob learn something much worse when they're virtually cut out of the profits. With their sights set for Hollywood, the two New Jerseyites embark on a cross country road trip with the intention of sabotaging the film. But on the way, they encounter everybody and everything from international jewel thieves, an orangutan, and an inept federal wildlife marshall, all in their inevitable quest.The Review Every filmmaker always pours something personal into a film that is small and meaningful. Kevin Smith put his experiences behind the counter in Clerks, and himself with a different name in Chasing Amy, and his views on religion in Dogma, and I have no idea what he put in the unfairly underrated Mallrats but there must've been something. In JASBSB, Smith puts something of major relevance today- the internet with our two protagonists learn that they're the subject of much ridicule from the likes of cruel movie nerds as teenagers and guys who can't even get laid. Smith himself has said that he was angered by comments made by his past films by such anonymous characters. But he gives fair justice to those in an end too good to spoil. Anyway, people say that if you haven't seen any of his previous films, you will not understand the flick, but honestly, Smith's film is a diehard summer flick, with every scene that chooses not to dissect, but to entertain it's viewers. Every part of the film any person could easily walk in on and still be entertained with the exception of any kind of reference to his previous films. Granted you may be thrown off, but Smith's film is an entertaining summer movie meant to be enjoyed and not analyzed unless you're a View Askew fan much like myself. JASBSB is the movie that Jay and Silent Bob finally deserve, with every dick and fart joke that was ever taken from his previous flicks and put to full use here with Smith finally tailoring the humor to his two characters. If you're a View Askew fan, but yet you haven't seen JASBSB, then you clearly need to catch up on your information. There are even references to Smith's cancelled Clerks cartoon series. Very much different from any View Askew film from before, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is an entertaining summer flick that is never short on the laughs, and heavy on the cameos (from the likes of anybody ever associated with View Askew to Matt Damon, directors Wes Craven and Gus Van Sant, and practically everybody else).Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A Great way to spend a Sunday afternoon!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is 2002 as I write this.  Nine years from now this will be the Dazed and Confused of 2011!  No other movies can depict the active minds of their respective time-periods like these!  "},{"Title":"What a huge let-down!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (+) Some of the inside-jokes are good.(-) A huge disappointment from Kevin Smith, this film is totally uninvolving and utterly boring. And Koyote Ugly was funnier. Driven was funnier. BBC Ten O'Clock news is funnier. Get the picture? "}{"Title":"Are you mad","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Are the fans of this Kevin Smith movies mad??This has got to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.The standard of acting from the two leads is terrible, most of the jokes are unfunny, and the whole concept is flawed. Really the only funny part was with James VB and the American Pie guy, but apart from that the movie was crude, predictable and boring (i.e when they look at the camera in a knowing way).   I'm even surprised Mirmax released it.1/10  "},{"Title":"Nicely Done.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After lurking outside a little store, sabotaging a game show, giving love advice and saved the world, Jay and Silent Bob decide to go to Hollywood to stop a movie from being made.Jay and Silent Bob find that the comic book Bluntman and Chronic is about to made into a major movie and not everyone in the world is happy about the idea so they send their offensive opinions on the subject onto the internet. Jay and Bob aren't happy about this and decide to go to Hollywood to stop the movie being made. On the way they make friends, eniemies and meet up with a chimpanzee.The film is good fun(not clean fun though)and gets giggles right from the start, but there are jokes that aren't original and then you can find yourself not laughing at them. Also you will have to watch the other four movies(and the Scream triology) with the duo in them to get more laughs.  It's fun but not fantastic.*** "},{"Title":"Goodbye, Kevin","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob were two-trick ponies (one trick each--Bob talking once a movie and Jay trying to get his d*** sucked)--but they were funny parts of otherwise thoughtful, entertaining movies.  Until this one.This movie went beyond bad.  This was a revenge f*** by Kevin Smith to all the people who actually liked his movies.  Smith must have been told by one too many idiots that Jay and Silent Bob were cool and that they were the best part of that lesbo flick or the funniest thing in that stupid god movie.  So Smith did what any artist with millions in the bank and studio a**holes sniffing his butt would do -- he got completely stoned and decided to see how bad a movie he could get away with.Smith has not only said goodbye to Jay and Silent Bob, but he has said goodbye to anyone who thought he was capable of making (or perhaps better to say willing to make) a decent movie.  You only have to tell me to f*** off once, Kevin.  I won't be back. "},{"Title":"You have to be a fan to like it.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I found this movie amusing, if you haven't seen the entire Kevin Smith cannon, NOTHING is going to make much sense. Ben Affleck as more than one character, Jason Lee as more than one character, and the myriad of cameos from past Smith film characters would be confusing to anyone who doesn't know the history.A should see for Smith fans, but probably not much interest to anyone else. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob are in da house","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well Im  not one for many words, But I have to say something about this film...Its funny , its so funny that I have watched it at least 6 times within 2 months, im not gonna get all critical and delve deep as I aint that clever )..This movie is a pure 10 outta 10 for me havent laughed so intensely for donkeys years , it really is a work of comedy art...Ali G in da house is funny also but Jay and Silent Bob are the kings )  "},{"Title":"This movie owns","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarius, i have seen 2 times now, and both times i have laughed so hard i thought i would pass out, there are some really funny scenes in this movie, all i can say is watch it and be a happier person, of course it requires that you have a bad sense of humour and that you dont mind a whole load of the explicit deleted words ) "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I knew this movie would be great cause these guys were so good in Dogma and this movie is a whole lot better than Dogma! and it has a ton of stars in it, including a lot of beautiful women! Jason Mewes should have been given best actor of the year forget Tom Hanks or whoever really won it cause he did a great job there are no boring parts to the movie everything is great! 9/10 lots of profanity but if you aren't offended by it, which you shouldn't be then you'll have a lot of fun with this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is great!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching Kevin Smith's first 4 movies, you feel so comfortable with the characters.  Jay and Silent bob are so much like an icon that when I went to the movie theater to see scream and I saw the part where Jay and Silent bob were in the movie for about 2 minutes, I got so excited.  I love all of Kevin Smith's movies.  "},{"Title":"FUNNY!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie and i must say...WOW! The cursing went on nonstop throughout the entire movie. I counted how many times the F word was said, and it came out to be around 250 times! Kids should definently not go see this due to all of the sexual content and cursing. If you like stupid, funny movies such as Dude Where's My Car?, you'll love this movie. Personally, I give it an 8/10 stars! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am one of these people who thinks that crude comedy is absolutelyhilarious. Jay and Silent Bob Strike back was a non-stop-laugh movie, Imean it was absolutely awesome.  Jason Mewes did a much better actingjob than he did in the previous 4. If you have seen the previous 4, IHighly recommend that you see this movie.  If you did not see theprevious 4 then you might not find it as funny.  ABSOLUTELY AWESOME "}{"Title":"Overlooked comedy of 2001","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I held off watching Jay and Silent bob strike back basically because I heard a lot of bad reviews about it and didn't want to believe that Smith had sunk into the relm of Stoner comedy. However I was plesently surprised on viewing this. Okay it's more Mallrats than Chasing Amy but Jay and Silent Bob is a Light hearted attack on the Hollywood system. Often the film labels itself as a bad stoner movie as Characters ask who would want to see a bad stoner movie2 and then stare and smile directly into the camera. Jay and Bob stumble their may into Hollywood in order to prevent a bad movie about their comic book alter egos Bluntman and Chronic being made. It's easy to see why critics not fimilar with the Kevin Smith series would want to hate this. Jay is a no brain stoner who flukes his way through life. But Jay and Bobs real appeal comes from performances of Ben Affleck and Jason Lee. Now I wouldn't normally approve of Affleck but he uses Jay and Bob to constuct a parody of himself and the hollywood system. Afflect and Damon pair up for a bloody action sequel to Good Will Hunting (Hunting Sequel) In which he over hears the film crew discussing the previous appearences of Dead hookers in his caravan. He screams out Ah ha! I wasn't even with a Hooker today!. Even Gus Van Saint gets in on the action as the disinterested director of Hunting Season. What an Artist, Afflect and Damon croon. All in all there are a lot worse movies than this and even though only die hard Smith fans will really apprieciate it's still not as bad as uninformed critics made it out to be. "},{"Title":"A movie-length gay joke","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Synopsis The dope-head duo from Kevin Smith's earlier films travel across America to prevent that a film about comic characters based on them is made, because it would make them look (even more) stupid... On their journey they become involved in a terrorist attack, before wreaking havoc in Hollywood.I watched this film without having seen Kevin Smith's earlier works. But I had seen Dogma and liked it immensely, and I was aware of Smith's excellent reputation as an independent film-maker, so my expectations were quite high. However, this film is a disappointment. As the characters themselves admit, it's nothing but a gay joke stretched to movie length. There are a few (but far too few) genuine laughs along the way, and Shannon Elizabeth, Ali Larter and Eliza Dushku are easy on the eyes, but not even the hilarious, self-ironic cameos of stars like Ben Affleck or Jason Biggs can save the film. If you still want to see it, catch it on DVD after a couple of drinks, maybe you'll find some of the jokes funny this way. 3 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith shoulda put some more brain time into this one.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a movie that aims to please the majority of teenage males - not including myself.  All that Smith (writer, director) had to do to attract this demographic was present a trash talking, sex crazed, juvenile delinquent (Jay), along with a quartet of attractive actresses whose only purpose is to arouse all the idiots who look at Jay as their idol.  Oh, I almost forgot all the homosexual jokes.  At one point, (during an argument between Biggs and Van Der Beek) you get the feeling that Smith may be mocking the teenage homophobes out there that use this kind of humor in there day to day lives.  However I don't think they'll realize that they're being mocked. There is also the idiotic references to smoking pot.  Congratulations Kevin Smith - you just expanded your target audience.Am I the only one who got a bit tired of the endless profanity, which was funny for about the first 20 minutes.  It was as if Smith was trying to see how creative he could be in this respect - in between all the f**ks was c**k knocker, ball licker, and s**t eater.And does anyone seriously think it's clever to spoof Star Wars after all these years.What's with that Orangatan.  I guess Smith thought the little ape would be good for back up humor just in case you got tired of Jay talking about how he is the king of clit.  Oh yeah, it also gives Smith an excuse to spoof Planet of the Apes.Before you e-mail me, calling me an uptight loser, let me verify that I did laugh quite a bit during this movie.  There is a spoof in it that most folks probably won't catch.  Will Ferrel is a wildlife marshal that takes over the investigation of Jay & Bob, from the higher powers. I can't stand it in movies when the LAPD argues with the FBI over who is in charge.  Mark Hamil was laughable, if only for a few seconds, as C**k Knocker and Chris Rock was great as a militant, black filmaker.This movie is filled with stupid humor, sometimes intertwined with intelligent humor.  Either way, you will most likely laugh.  It is presented in two confusing ways.  As one big, self-referential joke and as a spoof on Hollywood.  Smith should have put a little more brain time into this so it might have worked better.  However if your looking for more than a few laughs, this movie should do it for you. "},{"Title":"Hilarious - if you have seen the following films...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clerks - Mallrats - Chasing Amy - Dogma - Good Will Hunting -It also very much increases your viewing pleasure to know these onesAmerican Pie - Scream - Scoobie Doo - Dawsons Creek - Every Star Wars movie - Every movie with Matt Damon in it - Every movie with Ben Affleck in it -and many many more. This is the decent, very funny ending of Kevin Smiths New Jersey universe. Jay and Silent Bob have more screen time than in all the four previous Smith films together. If you are a movie buff and like Smiths humor, this one is a must for you. You will love Matt Damon and Ben Affleck playing themselves! If you want a story and character driven drama - you are definitely wrong!Kevin Smith has made this movie out of love for his characters and, I believe, his fans. Nearly every character from Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy has at least a short cameo in the movie and it gives you a strange feeling of home to see them all together for the last time. Smith now wants to move on to more sophisticated, adult movies. Or does he? I hope he never looses his humor and will keep on doing slightly different stuff - that's what he is good in.   "},{"Title":"stop over rating this movie!!!!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ya all praise the movie like it is god`s own work...it`s not!ive heard so much about this movie so i wanted to see it...i got to say i got disapointed. its a ok movie - *not EXTREMLY FUNNY* just a little funny.this is a dumb -as* movie made for people to laugh..and hey..thats ok by me (see my scary movie 2 review) like scary movie 1+2 it has a stupid plot, and it has a lot of stupid\funny episodes.but belive me SCARY MOVIE 1+2 IS SO MUCH FUNNIER. if you are standing over the dillema between renting scary movie 1+2 or jay and sil... go for scary movie - and if you have seen it before, see it again 10 times funnier)i give this movie 3*3*3* 3 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"i didn't like it","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Possible the one of the crappyer film iv seen.It was unfunny to the point  of it being pathetic. The jokes/comedy has been used abused and flogged to death in other movies, nothing new here.Iv see a few of the other movies Mall rats ClerksNow they had were very good and well written but this last film was just trying to hard to be funny.Perhaps  i was in a bad mood or wanted to watch somthing with a bit more complex.but i am sorry to say i felt i wasted my money on this one. "},{"Title":"kick ass","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie kicked ass.  I think that Jay and Silent Bob are funny.  In all the movies they were in they were funny.  This movie though made me laugh the hardest.  I also thought it was cool how they fit a lot of the characters from there other movies.  YOU GUYS ROCK!!!!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Kevin Smith's worst","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With Clerks Kevin Smith made himself.  With Dogma he reestablished himself as a man who could make cheap movies, good movies, and money.  And with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, as far as I'm concerned, Smith ran himself into the ground.  This is absolutely the worst movie he has made so far.  Perhaps it's just that I don't particularly like the two characters all that much in leading roles, and they're just better as occasional comic relief, as they do in Clerks, Mallrats, and others.  But mainly I think my hatred for this movie is due to Kevin Smith's strong potential, which he does not use in this movie.  This movie is uninspired, constantly bringing out overdone spoofs of scenes like lightsabre fights in Star Wars and the gutter scene in The Fugitive.  This film also brings out stupid lines and random scenes of extreme stupidity.  It was almost as if Kevin Smith decided to write a sequel to Dude, Where's My Car? instead of using his writing talent to put Jay and Silent Bob away in a nice way.  Perhaps, however, he can redeem himself. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect sequal to the other four movies","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Strikes Back is one of Kevin Smith's greatest movies.  It combines all of the humor from the other four (clerks, mallrats, chasing amy, and dogma) into one hilarious nonstop movie.  There was also an amazing cast made of many popular actors.  This great cast was only made better by the appearance of shannon elizabeth and her friends. "},{"Title":"A must see for Kevin Smith movie fans","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say this is my favorite of K. Smith's that I've seen so far.  If you liked Clerks then you'll most likely enjoy this flick.  I look forward to seeing Clerks Sell Out when it comes out, but until then this movie has a high degree of replay value. "}{"Title":"I didn't stop laughing!!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the longest I ever went without laughing was less than 2 minutes. This could easily be called as funny as Clerks, if not funnier. This and Clerks are now my favorites out of the 5 films that Smith made relating all characters together. If you have had a bad day and need to be cheered up, this movie will not fail to deliver. Non-stop laughs!! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a good while, I can really see how anyone with any sort of moral standards could not enjoy it though. Just simple lines by Jay could make me laugh so hard for some reason, I really don't know why because I would think to myself, I shouldn't be laughing this hard at a guy exclaming 'What the **** is the internet?' but I am.  I would recomend this movie to anyone who wants to sit back and be entertained.  I saw this movie at the beach a few weeks ago, and for the rest of the trip I found myself going back and watching certain clips because they were so funny.8/10 "},{"Title":"A View Askiew farwell party!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest Smith films (ties with Mallrats) Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is kind of like one long View Askiew dirty joke party.  if you haven't seen Smith's other films you'll probably miss some of the jokes in this one, all the great characters of past are here, and since it's the last one it's kind of like a farewell party for all your favs. Not the best, but not the worst... and hey! Jay and Silent Bob finaly get to be the features of a film!! "},{"Title":"Funny, and not","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those hard to review hit/miss sorts of films.  It's alternately funny and groan-inducing.There is something cathartic here, something above the level, as well as the forehead-slapping below the bar material.  Every time the fourth wall was broken, I slunk in my seat, but...Jay is fantastic.(I can't believe I just wrote that).  Let me check that line again.  Yeah, Jay is fantastic.  He's a wild, manic cartoon character, but actually has the good sense to be an enjoyable character.  I never thought I'd see the day...And I didn't dig the fanboy stuff-- I thought a lot of it was forced and self-obsessed.  I'm not a Will Farrel fan and I thought the girls (for the most part) were so shrill they were intolerable.  But Jay works.  All of his over the top monologues rise to the top moments of the film the email response You are the ones who are the Ball Lickers!, the Planet of the Apes voice over, the Clit Commander video speech, the determined and I got punched in the nuts... by a guy named Cocknocker.  We're not going home empty handed speech.There is even a moment where there is almost humanity in the cartoon a Jay and Bob moment where Jay gets mad because Bob won't talk.  He can always tell that stupid Amy story, but you can never say 'No Jay, I disagree,' or, 'Yo, Jay, how about some of them cheese fries.'  It's a strange line to walk.So how to rate it?  When it's funny, it's funny.  When it's not, it's abysmal (I can't figure out how Ferris Beuler and Cheech & Chong can talk to the camera and do well, and Mark Hammill and Ben Affleck can do it in this movie and just... er... suck.  Where's the line, dammit?)  In the spirit of this movie, I'm just going to post here and be done with it, and admit I'm sort of interested in what Kevin Smith will do next, now that the madcap binge is out of his system. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the best. You gotta see it man. It is so funny and cool and best of all the awesome adventures jay and bob goes on is freaking good. This is one of the best movies i have ever seen (honestly). By Alian Louis "},{"Title":"the best inside joke ever","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is really a good film, but to get the most out of it you should see the other four Smith movies. do yourself a favor and buy the SE DVD - this movie would have gotten a 10 instead of a 9 from me if Will Ferrel's out-takes would have been included.  not to mention all the great stuff that the god***n MPAA made Smith cut.it flows really well - 104 minutes that feels like 10. "},{"Title":"Moderate","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A dull side plot-driven second act almost sinks Kevin Smith's ultimate Hollywood in-joke which otherwise has enough laughs to entertain. Writer-director Smith wants you to believe he has a grudge against Hollywood big budget extravaganzas and he sets his most bankable creations, obscene stoner Jay (Jason Mewes) and his sidekick Silent Bob (Smith), out on a cross-country mission to disrupt a blockbuster being made about comic book characters based on them. But Smith's attention span is somewhat limited and he moves into a middle section about four beautiful jewel thieves who set up the main characters that drags the film down in a hurry. (And the introduction of Will Ferrell as a forest ranger on their trail is just plain bad slapstick.) Once the film gets to California, there are some very funny swipes at the crassness of the product and the large cameo cast is quite willing to poke fun at themselves. But the film overall simply reinforces the notion that Smith has yet to rise above his infantile attitudes and his anti-intellectual intellectualism is really a mask for a lack of deep thought.   "},{"Title":"Please don't kick my ass, Jay and Silent Bob!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just kidding..  This movie is, at times, hilarious! Most of the time you just find yourself smiling, but with the occasional side-splitting laughter.I am a huge fan of the New Jersey Trilogy (five now... hmm...) and this one didn't let me down. I especially loved the scene with Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season. Kick *expletive deleted*Kevin Smith is one of the best directors around, and I hope we get to see more stuff from him. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an awesome movie.  Kevin Smith is a brilliant writer.  This is definitely not his best movie but the laughs are sure to make you cry. This movie has tons of cameos from good actors.  If you want to see a good movie go rent or buy this right away. "},{"Title":"is this it?","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was no where near as good as people made it out to be.  Jay and Silent bob were much funnier in the other pictures, not this.  It was like kevin smith was trying to have as many camios as he could to sell the film, but not funnily.  Once you get over the oringinal premise, the comedy doesn't go anywhere, or develop, or get funny. It has some of those cool little parts like seeing mark hamill try to act, but if you don't get at the star wars references, you'd be better off to see something funny. "}{"Title":"Kevin Smith's FIRST Fart-joke-movie!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm quite a fan of Kevin Smith's movies. I LOVED Clerks! It really had GREAT dialogue. Then came Mallrats...ok it was funny sometimes and I pretty much liked it(especially the upcomming Jason Lee, he kicked a**), but my thought on it was that Smith got too childish with it. It got some real bad critics and when I watched Chasing Amy, my thoughts on that one wereMan, he learned something from the bad critics and now he's making some REAL movies! He's gonna be the next Woody Allen!. Next came Dogma. When I first saw it, I found it too trashy and maybe Smith is someone that can't handle big loads of money being available. Then I saw it a second time and...yes, it has a lot of good thoughts on religion and there really is a message in it(though it could be some more subtle).It was not as funny as the other ones, but it had a message, some good ideas and I finally found my idea of what the Kevin-Smith-style is in it. Then I REALLY waited on Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back with pleasant anticipation also because I read how many stars would be in it. The movie started pretty nice with the Randall-and-Dante-insider-jokes but then came Jay's a** and fart. I mean this is not classy, this is not funny at all and somehow it's even a little disgusting. Do you remember the chocolate-covered-bretzel-scene in Mallrats? I really hated this scene! Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back has a whole LOTTA these scenes where it is no longer talked in a funny way about those things but some of it is shown or heard and everybody in the audience is(maybe not even aware) torn between being disgusted and laughing out loudly. In my brain either both sides cancel each other off or I'm disgusted. Maybe this works different with YOUR brain... I have no problems with troma films, they are tasteless because they WANT to be tasteless, but Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is tasteless because it doesn't know where taste ends and tastelessness begins!!! Another example for Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back crossing the line You can't make a L.A. crack-dealer a good ol' friend of Jay! It's CRACK man, no longer weed, CRACK! This is NOT OK! You know, maybe I'm too conservative with my 20 years of age, but this movie stinks of money, of farts and of linecrossings! And there are so many intelligent people like Matt Damon, Gus Van Sant, Jason Lee in it. These are people which I thought of have taste. But none of them recognized this movie being tasteless and I have no idea why...Kevin, if you ever are reading thisGo rent some Woody Allen Movies; find back taste!  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith Strikes Back","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith returns to the form he displayed in his first two films - unpretentious, no holds barred, and funny as hell. I know a lot of people prefer his more in depth efforts in Chasing Amy and Dogma, but to me, Smith is a comedian first and foremost, and a message filmmaker second.That said, Smith decided to give his stoner duo top billing for the first time, after having them fill a peripheral role in his other movies. He cooks up a hokey plot device (hey, it's a comedy - who cares about plot?) that sends Jay and Silent Bob off to Hollywood to kill a movie which features their comic book likenesses, Bluntman and Chronic. This, among numerous others, is a reference to a previous Kevin Smith movie. Anyway, along the way, they meet Shannon Elizabeth and her three partners in crime who persuade them to liberate an ape in a test lab as cover for a diamond theft. They end up with the monkey, but not the girls, then proceed to Hollywood with a demented, dim, Federal agent in hot pursuit. In the process, much fun is poked at the movie industry, animal rights nuts, Internet movie geeks, fast food joints, as well as the usual Star Wars references. In this film, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Mark Hamill, Wes Craven, Shannen Doherty, and other Hollywood hotshots are willing to put their egos aside and willingly poke fun at their own work. What doesn't work? Chris Rock and his angry black man shtick. Unlike wine, it's not getting better with age. He's a Johnny one note in desperate need of a new tune to play. And George Carlin ceased being funny many years ago. He used to have a cerebral wit, now he's reduced to doing gross-out humor in this film that is decidedly unfunny. What does work? Pretty much everything else. Jason Mewes, to his credit, is able to play the co-lead effectively throughout the entire movie. Smith is solid as his partner. Smith must also be given credit for multi-tasking, i.e., serving as both director and co-star. Shannon Elizabeth positively sizzles. It's not hard to see how Jay falls for her like a ton of bricks. There's tons of in-jokes concerning both Hollywood and previous Kevin Smith movies (it definitely helps to have seen his films in order). In short, this marks Smith's return from the world of issue movies to pure comedy, where, IMHO, he is best suited.8/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely funny. This ones a talker for the Gen.X'ers","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a fanboy of Kevin Smith's movies.  I've only seen two of his movies, namely his original Clerks film and Dogma and I must be honest, I didn't like either of them that much.  But there was one aspect in both the movies that I thoroughly enjoyed, and that was the characters of Jay and Silent Bob.  There is a very charming stupidity about Jay that is simply hilarious.  He is extremely potty-mouthed, possibly mentally-retarded, and morally bereft, but every single line out of this kid's mouth is pure comedy gold.  I found myself laughing out loud more times than I can count on my fingers and toes.  The Clit Commander home video is reason enough to rent this movie.  Now that I've finally fallen in love with Smith's View Askew galaxy, I am so sad to see them go.  But I guess this was definitely a superb swan song for the entire cast of characters.. I also REALLY enjoyed Will Ferrell's performance in this movie.  Will Ferrell is a comedic genius, and I've felt that way since his first season on Saturday Night Live.  He has the unique ability to improv the absolute funniest lines, and this shows through if you watch the bonus material from Jay and Silent Bob and another recent, but not as funny, movie with Ferrell -- Zoolander.  Mark my words, there will be big things to come for Will Ferrell, and I can't wait to see what he he's going to do next. Some of the things I did NOT like about the movie1.) The acknowledgements of the clever, little inside jokes.  They really didn't have to turn to the camera and wiggle their eyebrows knowingly for the audience to get it.  If you didn't get it, then you're not going to get it regardless of the acknowledgement.2.) Kevin Smith's interpretation of Silent Bob in this film was way over the top and bordering on hammy.  Too many emphatic facial gestures and stuff.  Didn't need it. 3.) Ben Affleck is so lame.But thats it, I was willing to overlook all of the flaws of this movie, because of the large helping of Jay's hilarity, which trumps everything.  I must warn you that this movie is extremely trashy, and if you are the type that cringes every time someone utters the f-word or the s-word, then I would suggest looking elsewhere such as Harry Potter or a Disney animation.  Otherwise, if you are not afraid to get a little down and dirty, this movie is superbly funny! Definitely a must-have for all diehard film geeks. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Can't believe I didn't make it to the theater to see this film.  Tons of laugh out loud moments!  All of the cameos kept me guessing at who I'd see next.  A fun, fun film & a true Kevin Smith masterpiece!  I can't wait to see his next film! "},{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wouldn't say this movie is totally crap. I'm not big on the whole Jay and Silent Bob thing, but there are some really funny parts to this movie. I loved Will Ferrell and James Van der Beek (like who doesn't???), who joined others, such as Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, in helping bring on the laughs. One word of advice Don't try to drink anything while watching, it could be hazardous to those around you! Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Hilarious and Fun Adventure!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    This was such a great movie!!!! I was watching this movie and was constantly laughing!!! Kevin Smith directed the movie greatly and wrote it very well. The cast was great, and there were sooooo many good actors in the movie Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Shannon Elizabeth, Will Ferrel, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Seann William Scott, James Van Der Beek, Jason Biggs, and lots more! There were also some directors of movies that acted small parts in the film, they were Wes Craven and Gus Van Sant. This movie is a laughing party if you've seen a lot of movies that they sort of make fun of in this movie.***SPOILER ALERT*** I love the part at the end when Jay and Silent Bob go to everyone's houses who wrote bad stuff about them on the internet, and then beat them up. That was hilarious! It was great and really funny!***END OF SPOILER***        All in all, this is a great and surely hilarious movie. I give Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back a 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Switch your brain off and enjoy this foul-mouth experience. This is a very entertaining picture. The plot is not important, come on, this type of film is just a chill-out! The story is very simple, and you have a fair idea how it will end. The film is about the journey, the characters they meet on the way. Cameos from Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill will have you in fits of laughter!Is Jay a strong lead character? Probably not, but I didn't care. Silent is a good sidekick, though. At times the film seems to be pushed towards the folks who know everything about the previous films, so for newbies, I suggest watching Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma first. Of course, there is a lot of crude and immature jokes, but you can't help to laugh at it all.The acting is actually very good, Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are very comfortable in their roles. Watch out for the hot looking ladies, you can't miss them!The direction is pretty good, this is Smith's biggest film to date and he does take care of things very well here.Jay and Silent Bob is fun, forget the plot, it's not important. Just enjoy the adventure. "},{"Title":"Good, not as good as Clerks","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would have to agree with others that this film was a good laugh.  There were a few times where it was funny, but I think nearing the end half of the movie most of the jokes became a bit dull and routine.  Also, something annoyed me with the sound effects and other aesthetic details to the filming.  It's funny, but a movie like Clerks which had NO budget at all stands out in comparison to this one.  The main thing I noticed most about this movie was lack of good ideas or dialogue in the second half.  Clerks had some great dialogue, and sheer zaniness which worked because it was subtle yet, at the same time, completely outrageous.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back could have been better, but really, how long can the stoner duo retain their freshness on celluloid?  I would rate this film a 7/10.  Pretty funny, worth seeing, not as good as the original.Oh, and I agree with Ben Stiller that Greedo shooting first was the worst idea in film history.  George Lucas?  What hit you on the head? "},{"Title":"Very funny movie!!!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and silent Bob strike back is a very funny movie. I recommend this movie to any one out there, It was an interesting movie and it's the type that you can watch over and over again with you friends and find out more of the inside jokes that our in the movie!soooo this is my advice...GO SEE THE MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny?  When?","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe I've lost my sense of humor but I think I may have laughed twice during this movie.  If this is funny then I must not know how to laugh.  I loved Clerks so when a co-worker suggested this FUNNY movie I gave it a shot.  Well my co-worker just don't agree on what funny is I guess.  Maybe you'll enjoy it but I couldn't hate it more.  There was one funny part.  The ending where they go around beating up all the young kids who wrote bad reviews on an internet chat site.  Maybe they'll visit me and I can tell them face to face that they suck! "}{"Title":"You have to be View Askew-er to really *Get* it....","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the average rating of 7.5 at the moment is a bit high to say the least!Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge fan of Kevin Smiths films but this is probably the weaker of the 5 films.There are some great inside jokes in this film, but for anyone that hasn't seen Mallrats, Chasing Amy et al, these jokes will go straight over your head!For me the film peaks when they reach Hollywood and we're treated to some memorable cameos from James Dawson Van Der Beek, Jason Pie F**ker Biggs, Mark Hamill and a show stealing rant from Chris Rock, not to mention the hilarious Good Will Hunting 2 sequence.For anyone that gets all the inside jokes this is a 7 or 8 out of 10, and a great conclusion to the series.For those who haven't seen any of the Jersey series then you will probably miss most of the jokes and this film will seem like a turkey.ps The DVD (Region 1) is highly recommended, Kevin Smith sure knows how to put together a great extra laden disc! "},{"Title":"Smith closes the view askewniverse on a high note","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wasn't sure if this movie would hold up upon successive viewings, given that it's basically a 90 minute long fart joke. But after watching the DVD a few times, I decided to buy it. It definitely holds up. However, I'm a Kevin Smith fan, and enjoyed the other 4 movies in the series.For those unfamiliar with Jay & Silent Bob, they're a modern day Laryl and Hardy, who wander through Smith's other 4 movies. However, this odd couple deal marijuana and are obsessed with getting laid -- at least Jay (Jason Mewes) is. Silent Bob (Writer/Director Kevin Smith) is just that -- he has about 3 lines in the entire movie.This movie really crosses the line. I showed the first 10 minutes of the film to my mom and she was shocked. If you like juvenile humor, see this movie. There really are no redeeming factors in this movie -- short of Smith's talent as a writer and director -- but it's an all out comedy it doesn't need any redeeming qualities.So long as you keep in mind this movie doesn't even take itself seriously and it's all in fun, and you're not easily offended, you can enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Bye, bye bye!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked Kevin Smith's previous movies.  This is not as strong as the previous four.  That said, there were a lot of funny movie references and cameos, and if you like Jay and Silent Bob some pretty good laughs.After spending a night watching the deleted scenes, I'm convinced Kevin Smith didn't have a clear vision for this movie - witness all the unfunny plot lines he ultimately discarded - and most of the deleted humor didn't make the movie funnier, it just upped the 'potty' factor.  One exception was a funny Will Farrell scene parodying The Fugitive, and there were a couple of others.  For the most part though, the deleted scenes make the editing look like genius. "},{"Title":"Snoogins","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best Damn Kevin Smith Film yet. Very funny and great Dialogue, highly recommend this film for those who loved Smith's previous films. Enjoyed the flash backs to the other movies and it had a GREAT CAST!!! "},{"Title":"A Huge Pile of Well Organized Crap","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There were times when I was watching this movie that I said to myself, I am going home to make this the first movie on IMDB I've rated a 1. Although, after watching the entire movie, I couldn't bring myself to do it.  The ONLY thing about this movie that entertained me was the (at times)engaging plot. It may have been ridiculous at times but almost all comedies have that going for them so I will ignore it. The biggest problem I had watching this movie was the endless string of sex jokes, one of which I found funny.  At times I wanted to leave the room because every consecutive minute I sat there listening to the words that came out of the television I felt stupider and stupider and had less and less respect for movies.  Overall, I can't give this movie a one, but have absolutely no problem giving it a two...  Thankfully this is one of those movies that in 10 years from now, no one will talk about or even remember. Quote meProbably the most unoriginal movie I have ever seen.  Like comedies about stoners?  Go see a good one-The Big Lebowski. "},{"Title":"Stale and Self-Absorbed","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always liked Kevin Smith movies.  Liked, not loved.  My favorites are Mallrats (in the category of pure but better-honed fun and silliness) and Chasing Amy (in the category of The sort of films Kevin Smith would make if he were grown up).  Clerks is good as a first film, but too much a first film.  Dogma would have been better as a Chris Rock standup routine, which it basically was, but Smith billed it as a movie, so he had to stick in a bunch of scenes and characters and so on to pull off the con.To say goodbye to all the characters in the Askewinverse, especially Jay and Bob, in one goofy film, is perfectly kosher with me.  And given the main/title characters, we shouldn't expect anything with gravitas.  And the movie is funny.  It's just not as funny when this material was fresh.Should we really be surprised?  The film feels like the homage that it is, and a self-absorbed homage (both because Jay and Bob are self-absorbed, but because Smith himself seems to have been driven to adopt the same persona--maybe indicating his reason for ending the Jersey Chronicles). Jay and Bob go to Hollywood to stop their movie NOT because they weren't given a cut of the proceeds, but because they are incensed by the internet chatroom and BBS posters making fun of...Jay and Bob.  That's wholly in character for our dynamic duo (to care more about the opinions of pimply nobodies on the WWW than about their foregone riches), but as a plot device, it seems as much about Smith's own frustration toward the 'net's movie reviewers as it is a plausible course for Jay and Bob.The inside jokes referencing Smith cast members and their careers are the funniest elements, meaning that the movie can't be as successful if you haven't spent significant time in the Askewniverse.  The cameos only reiterate the feeling of self-absorption--Smith has enlisted all his old pals in this masturbatory fantasy.  Masturbation is all good and well, but it supports a finite number of jokes, and it's really not long sustainable as a spectator sport.  Smith's movies start with Clerks (a movie he got to make), then to Mallrats (a movie he made right for the genre), then to Amy (a movie of quality that stands on its own), and then to Dogma and J&SBSB (movies he made just because he could).  Gratuitous.Smith seems to have rejected the idea that his filmmaking should grow and opted instead to seal it off in a time-capsule.  Certainly that's his prerogative--I understand that he doesn't conceive of himself as a filmmaker, at least not simply as a filmmaker--but he showed enough talent with words and ideas that it would have been nice to see where he ended up. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, a movie this offensive has to be made (and that is always)","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You might say of Kevin Smith that he is a stoner, comic book geek that was blessed into being allowed to write and direct his own films, riding on the coattails of his first film Clerks and his much more famous friends Matt Damon and Ben Affleck.  He puts out the most vile and sophomoric films that are made with the sole purpose of getting high schoolers to laugh at pubic hair and weed jokes.  You might say that he needs to take off that raggy hooded jacket and get away from anything resembling a camera.  You might say he is just not funny.  I, however, might say I think he is a comedy mastermind. (And I do.)In Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back we find the ultra-baked duo setting out to Hollywood to defend their good (?) names after being repeatedly slammed on an internet movie guide (kind of like this one, just not for the whole family) after a movie is set to be made of in their image.  Along the way they hitch a ride with a sexy group of diamond thieves who set them up for an orangutan kidnapping and they cross paths with characters played by some of the finest comedy people of all time. (George Carlin, Wil Ferrel, Jon Stewart, Chris Rock, etc.)That's about the long short of the the plot. (it really is.)  This, however, allows Smith to not only satire his own films, but everthing else Hollywood. And most of the fun is poked at decent films!  For example, Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, and director Gus Van Sant doing a quick poke at Good Will Hunting, (a very outstanding film,) when Jay and Silent Bob stumble upon the filming of Good Will Hunting 2, Hunting Season.  They not only take stabs at the movie, but at each other's fame.  (Grip on bullhorn to set extras if you make any eye contact with Mr. Damon or Mr. Affleck, you will be fired!)  And, yes there is the Star Wars rips, too.  (Keep an eye open for Mark Hamill and Carrie Fisher cameos.)  Satires of Hollywood is exactly the kind of thing we need more of, trust me.So you must understand, Mr. Smith was not out to create an intellectual movie here.  Of coarse it's beyond silly.  This is his most slapstick and profanity-filled film to date... and I for one enjoyed every minute of it. As soon as the movie begun, I found myself laughing with tenth-grader glee until the end, all the while my wife looked on in shame, yet trying not to laugh, herself.  I felt no guilt in this nor did I feel that I should have spent my time watching some smart arthouse film like Waking Life or something.  (Hey, you're talking to a longtime fan of Bevis and Butthead here!)I watch the subtle brilliance of Kevin Smith and have always recommended his movies to friends.  Plus, the DVD came with a bonus disc were you may watch deleted scenes(some kept out to miss a NC-17 rating)with introductions by Smith and others.  I dug this too, as it left me with a more personal touch on the film.  Kevin Smith never comes off as some misunderstood genius who belongs to some kind of higher order like alot of directors. (Tim Burton?) I saw him and Jason Mewes as guys who like movies and like making movies. They came off as if they were talking to me directly, as if I might have even been hanging out with them.  Now, alot of you complained but I propose quite simply this movie wasn't for you.  And I bet all the complainers normally like fart and sex jokes any other time.  And if that's the case, go rent the foul and unfunny There's Someting About Mary and leave the good times to people like Kevin Smith and us.Seth's Rating A-P.S. Oh, and remember, if you slam Jay and Silent Bob on the internet, they'll be paying you a visit. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm Not A Fanboy","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I always thought I was a Kevin Smith fanboy, but after this movie I know I'm not. I didn't like it. I've never met anyone who has raved about it. I walked out of the movie theater with 4 other people who loved KS and none had much good to say about it. It's not that funny. It's a stinker. Sorry! "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I've Seen In A Long Time","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always enjoyed watching two of the greatest characters ever created... Jay and Silent Bob.  But seeing them in the 2001 movie Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back had me cracking up nonstop.  The thing I liked the most about this movie were all the cameos that were featured.  Come on, it's not everyday you see Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek making fun of themselves while portraying pot heads in a movie based on Bluntman and Cronic.  And Tracy Morgan was so funny in this movie too.  I just loved it. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Funny!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now, we all know that this is the last Jay and Silent Bob movie. And it's sad to think that it's the last one. It still amazes me that after all four movies, the jokes are still hilarious and the cast is still superb, along with the screenplay that never really lets up. Kevin Smith, writer-director-star, pretty much does quadruple time on this film, since he is in just about every scene. Plus, he even makes one of the boldest decisions anybody has ever made. He moves Jay and Silent Bob out of New Jersey and into Hollywood. In this movie, his Silent Bob character pretty much talks as much as he did in Chasing Amy. Also, how could there be a Silent Bob movie without Jay, who never stops talking throughout the entire film. Not that it's a bad thing. But the best thing about this movie is the way they connect all the previous View Askew movies. Smith ties in all the characters we have previously met, and puts them in the movie in which they are all essential to the plot. (Excluding Dogma, where most of the characters couldn't be in this movie for obvious reasons. Although there is a reference or two to Dogma) Anyway, Smith does a magnificent job tying in the other movies, knowing exactly when and where to put them in. Also, a lot of the cast does double duty in this playing characters from the other View Askew movies. For example, Jason Lee plays Brodie and Banky. Ben Affleck plays Holden and well, Ben Affleck. And there is also a plethora of cameo appearances in this film. Including Chris Rock, George Carlin, Matt Damon, Judd Nelson, Wes Craven, and dozens of others. Finally, this and everything else, makes this a great end to the place we call the ViewAskewniverse.  "}{"Title":"You either get it or you don't","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious, but I have seen the other movies with Jay and Silent Bob. This while not being their best, is a worthwhile watch if you like their sense of humor. My favorite part was when at the end of the movie they tracked down the little internet weenies dissing them and beat the crap out of them. I think that part was put in just for us. "},{"Title":"I Feel Sorry For Kevin Smith. . .","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clerks was a breath of fresh air when it came out in '94.  It had the funniest dialogue I'd seen in a film at that time.  Mallrats wasn't as funny but it was still worth watching.  Chasing Amy?  Good film, smart and engaging. Dogma - the first sign that Kevin Smith was going on a downward spiral of mediocre crap flicks.  One of many films I'd had high expectations about but left the theater hugely disappointed. Which brings me to this nonchalant, piece-of-cinematic-crap, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  Mr. Smith, your dream has died.  This movie is absolutely lame, from beginning to end (Although the first ten minutes are actually able to get MILD chuckles, and that's that). What happened to your originality, Kevin?  Did it disappear into thin air? It must have (You put that jackass Will Ferrell in it, for Chrissake).I have been robbed of ninety minutes of my life, and I blame you, Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"A Big and Wonderful Inside Joke","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some Spoilers!!!By Kevin Smith's own admission, this movie is a giant inside joke for all View Askewniverse fans.  Inside jokes range from easy (the whole ending where everyone leaves the theater), medium (repeat characters), and hard (the seagulls in the background of the bike jump are from the cancelled ABC cartoon show, Clerks).If you don't know View Askewniverse, this movie is entertaining.  But the more of a fan you are, the better this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Farce","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  farce(frs)n.  A light dramatic work in which highly improbable plot situations, exaggerated characters, and often slapstick elements are used for humorous effect.   And that is truly what Jay and Silent Bob Strike back is  The ultimate modern day farce.  Kevin Smith takes exaggerated characters, puts them in an unrealistic situation, and somehow brings it all together in the end for one big happy ending.   And, oh what a lovely tea party it is!   The movie is just plain laugh out loud funny.  No redeeming value like his last two films, but still hilarious nonetheless.  And it's truly a treat for fans of his films, bringing back elements of all the others (except Dogma, which there are only a few minor references to).  He also parodies every big budget flick and TV show one could imagine, and then brings in the actors and/or directors of these works to parody them themselves, showing that no one in this film takes themselves seriously.   So, basically, don't think of it as a movie as much as a big budget going away party to the two funniest characters in movie history!  "},{"Title":"Zoinks, yo","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the funniest movie I've ever seen.  It's like Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma rolled into one.  Even the characters from the four previous films are in this movie like Dante, Holden, and Brodie.  The cameos in this movie are great and really funny like Mark Hamill and Jamie Kennedy.  Seann William Scott, Shannon Elizabeth, and Will Ferrell were one of the best parts of this movie.  Overall, it's about time Jay and Silent Bob got their own movie and it is excellent. Kevin Smith has done it again. "},{"Title":"A great send off.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll make this short. If you are a View Askew fan and dig Jay and Silent Bob then this movie is for you. It ain't complex, it isn't even his best overall movie Chasing Amy but it is his funniest and is a great send off for those characters. Buy the DVD, buy the other merchandise, sit back and enjoy.Snooch.   "},{"Title":"FUNNYY!!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny + Funny + Great .. = This movie ..In the funny range 9 out of 10Just enjoy and don't ask any questions !!The CL*#*# Commander . still LOL "},{"Title":"don't think, just laugh","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start this review by stating that until this film I was not a big fan of Kevin Smith.  I took my films too seriously (favorites range from american beauty to jaws).  I didn't understand the subtlety of very very low-brow humor (south park the movie excluded) until I saw this film.  I went in with an open mind.  I came out with several wet spots on my pants from laughing so hard.  Sure there's a lot of d*ck and fart jokes, and sometimes those jokes don't work so well, but when they do it's hard to stop laughing.  I'm talking about jaw dropping-I-can't-believe-my-ears-funny. If you're more into serious natured films, please give this film at least a chance anyway.  If you still aren't laughing at the end, you might want to check your pulse. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!! The perfect way to retire Jay and Silent Bob!!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. I thought this movie was great. It's the perfect way to retire the characters of Jay and Silent Bob. It sucks though that this is there last appearance. I hope Kevin Smith changes his mind and decides to keep writing Jay and Silent Bob movies or I at least hope he keeps writing and directing other films because his movies are so funny. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is a genius","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. It is a total laugh out loud movie. I love the Jay and Silent Bob charters from other movies and I think the Kevin Smith did a great job creating them in their own movie. One of the things that makes this movie great is that it pokes fun at it self as well as the actors in the movie, who seem to enjoy poking fun at themselves (like Jason Biggs calling himself Pie Boy). This is a great movie I recommend it to anyone who isn't offended by lots of cursing and some pot smoking. "}{"Title":"I'm still laughing...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, I like fart jokes, secondly, I use the F-word as much as possible when I'm speaking freely, third, I always make sex jokes ( and not just pansy little innuendoes, me and my friends have some nasty conversations), and fourth, it really doesn't take much to amuse me sometimes. Therefore, I laughed my ass of at Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. These characters are rock solid comic cornerstones the slapstick pair, one is smart, one is not. Evidence Laurel and Hardy, Abbot and Costello, Martin and Lewis, Fred and Barney, the list goes on. So from that standpoint, the movie should have no problems, provided the plot works, which this one does, and well. Jay and Bob are slapped with a restraining order keeping them away from the Quickstop. Where to now? On a trek across the country to L.A. to keep a movie about characters based on Jay and Silent Bob from being made. Simple enough, right? Well, Smith's brilliant writing keeps this from being anything but simple. There are more cameos in this movie than ever, and the inside jokes about Hollywood, Miramax, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, as well as walk ons by every other character from Kevin Smith's View Askew-niverse, this script is absolutly dripping with clever wit. The tie ins with Star Wars are always held in high favor (yes, I am a fanboy). And as always, I can never watch Jay's scathing insults to anyone or anything without busting a gut. Great supporting parts by Will Ferrell, and one liners by every cameo celebrity keep this one a laugh riot until the very end. I do admit, however, that this movie is not going to be for everyone. I can see how some people can be offended by such constant profanity, sexual vulgarity, and drug references. That is fine. Those people have thier own movies that they can cling to, and the world is a happy place. (Frankly, I hate the movies those people watch. Ever see Magnolia? Man! What a hot steaming pile of peanut encrusted crap cleverly disguised as a movie! But I digress.) In conclusion, if you like lots of profanity, vulgarity, and razor sharp inside humour, watch Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Also, get this one on DVD if possible. It is absolutely loaded to the gills with outtakes, deleted scenes, trailers, videos, etc,etc,etc, all introduced by Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, and a handful of others from Kevin Smiths world. I loved it. A rock solid 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Funny, better than Mallrats, but slightly disappointing.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is better than Mallrats, but not as good as Smith's other movies. This starts out fine, but the road trip scenes are highly uneven. The jewel thief sub-plot was pure eye-candy, but otherwise pointless and the weakest of the road trip scenes. The film picks up when they get to hollywood. The movie is quite funny at times, but never truly hilarious. Overall, slightly disappointing, but still funny and better than Mallrats. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"A comedy that does what it is meant to - very funny","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie features a great comedy duo - in some respects they resemble Laurel & Hardy. One is a fool and the other is the more serious partner. This film works in the way that it is meant to, I don't think it merits much in-depth analysis, of greatest importance is that it is funny, really funny in parts and kept me amused throughout. "},{"Title":"Funny at times, but not hilarious","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back (or Jay & Bob as I shall it from here on) is not a movie I'd go to see for directing. Just as well because there's nothing special about it (though it's perfectly fine for the movie). Nor the acting - it's a comedy, you don't expect it. You find a comedy movies success in the script.How does Jay & Bob fare then? Fairly well. The bodily fluid jokes are not funny. They're not even funny because they're not meant to be funny. However let's put them aside - Jay & Bob is not pretending to be intelligent. The film really picks up the most towards the end, when they are in Hollywood. There's obviously in-jokes spewing all over the place. Particular credit goes to Damon & Affleck slagging off their own work - watch out for a rather hilarious moment of Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season )Go and see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back if you're able to turn your brain off. Go and see it if you're a Kevin Smith fan and wish to have seen all the Jay and Bob movies (and get all those in jokes). Don't go expecting intelligence and depth. Just go to waste away an hour and a half in reasonable contentment... "},{"Title":"A great laugh!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not usually a fan of slapstick... but sometimes, the puerile side just has to be released! The premise sounds pretty lame... BUT!This movie works on several levels First, the guilty pleasure that you just have to take in the perfect timing of all the movie's physical comedy. It's like watching old chuck-jones cartoons (an idea that I think Smith toyed with in Mallrats, with Jay's 'Wile E. Coyote' style blueprints, and outrageous plans to destroy a stage)... Not just because of the perfect timing in every gag... but also, because of the inspired acting by Mewes and (particularly) smith.Secondly, the endless cameos by stars of the other view-askew movies, and other famous friends... Trying to spot them all was pretty good fun in itself... Admittedly more for fans than laymen, as the references to Smith's previous work came thick and fast, at worst, raising a smile, at best a smug giggle. The references to other cult movies and directors, and indeed more mainstream pop-culture institutions were also pretty good fun!Thirdly, it had a monkey. Audiences love monkeys (or rather, apes... a fact made clear by any which way but loose!) Oh, and plenty of gratuitous ass, and indeed profanity.All in all a formula which has delighted the viewing public on so many previous occasions (south park being a perfect example), that with smith behind the wheel, it couldn't have gone wrong! Go and see it... but don't expect any intelligent observations on the state of the nation. This is just a laugh... and doesn't pretend to be anything else. "},{"Title":"Silly Adventure/Comedy!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"                       ******SPOILERS******Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a strange comedy, but I guess that's the whole point. Kevin Smith (Silent Bob.) has made quite a few movies, which people seem to of enjoyed. I haven't really watched many of them properly to actually have an opinion on, until now. I didn't think this  movie was hilariously funny, but I did like quite a few scenes here. One being the 'Scream 4' scene featuring cameos from great horror director Wes Craven and Shannen Doherty. Another being the scene with Jason Biggs and James Ven Der Beek. A couple of the monkey scenes were funny too. I liked the way the movie had a 'Scary Movie spoof theme' in many of the scenes and there are some cool cameos here from the likes of Carrie Fisher, Jason Biggs Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Eliza Dushku, etc. Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back is not a classic comedy, but it's okay all the same.  "},{"Title":"Hey, I liked it.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  O.k, one or two too many bone smoker gags, and the girl crime outfit got a tad boring, and we could have lost the monkey, but, on the whole, a good entry into the Jay and Bob saga, I, for one, hope that they come back into the building. "},{"Title":"hell yeah","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  sweetass movie, very cool, very funny.  jay and bob rock.  i just love jay's rap at the beginning.  can't wait until it comes out in the uk tho (9 days) cause i only got a poor quality divx.  basically, jay and bob find out that there's a movie being made about them, and that loads of kids are dissing them in the internet.  of course, they won't stand for this so they decide to go and stop the movie being made.  they hitch various rides, including with a nun, scooby and the gang and a gang of fine-ass jewel thief chicks, one of whom falls for jay (and needless to say, he's up for it too).  good tunes too.  and amy turns up, again.  lots of references to the other movies, and all your fave characters are there.  top entertainment from kevin smith again (after mallrats & dogma, tho imho chasing amy and clerks just weren't as good).  possibly his best yet?  who am i to say (yes, it is). "},{"Title":"Much funnier than expected","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After reading about the anti-gay themes apparently running through the movie, I wondered if this would be a bitter pill hack job done by Alan Smithee.  Turns out, Kevin Smith and crew have done a good parody of a bunch of flicks -- and those flicks run from Blazing Saddles to Charlie's Angels to, as many have pointed out, Smith's own oeuvre.  The movie actually gets better as it progresses and many of the cameos are hilarious in and of themselves...but wasn't thrilled with the acting from Affleck, Damon, or Lee -- whose acting seem stilted and too self-conscious (maybe they didn't read the script ahead of time either) -- charges I can't level at Mewes or Smith.  I wasn't offended by the anti-gay parody/slurs, though I do wonder what Kevin Smith was thinking as he wrote this stuff.  I mean, this material is getting a bit tired but it worked 90% of the time in this film. In summary  Lots better than expected and even better if you're familiar with Kevin Smith's other films, esp. Chasing Amy and Clerks.   "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so a few weeks ago I watched American Pie II and till yesterday I thought that was the funniest movie ever. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Again totally takes it. It was so funny, I am still laughing of all the jokes, and it's been 24 hours ago. I loved the appearance of Ben Affleck and the other celebs in the movie - James Van Der Beek and that-guy-who-f***ed-the-pie totally ripped me off. I loved this movie and I'm gonna buy it as soon as I can! "}{"Title":"With out doubt the funniest film of the year!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is funniest film of 2001 that I've seen and it make Kevin Smith look even better than his previous films made him seem.This film is not only for the people who have seen and loved the previous four films, its is a comical genius than before. I recommend this film to any who hasn't seen this before and those who have already seen it, see it again! "},{"Title":"Funny but not up to Smith standards","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am probably one of the biggest Kevin Smith fans in the entire world so it pains me to admit that I was somewhat disappointed in this movie. I loved the references to his other films but that was about it, which speaks volumes. After all of the New Jersey Triology references we were taken on a nonsensical ride that had a few laughs but lacked the true Kevin Smith flare. The cameos were also neat but with the plot they really couldn't add too much. I think this movie dropped the ball when the whole diamond heist subplot was introduced. If Smith had kept this movie as a Hollywood satire and an homage to himself I would have been a lot more satisfied. Clerks was innovative, Mallrats was mediocre, Chasing Amy was genius, Dogma was edgy, and J&SBSB is decent. As you can tell this ranks last on my Kevin Smith List (1. Chasing Amy 2. Dogma 3. Clerks 4. Mallrats 5. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back) "},{"Title":"Funny for some","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are essentially two types of Kevin Smith fans. Those who enjoy dick and fart jokes and those who appreciate his true wit and talent. The former think that Mallrats was genius and think that J&SBSB is right up there. The latter feel that Smith hit his creative peek with Chasing Amy and followed up with Dogma. I am one of the latter. Chasing Amy had some of the best dialogue ever written and acted with some of the most brilliant performances. Kevin Smith made a love story that trancends all love stories because it was honest and real. Any other love story would have had the boy get the girl, but not Chasing Amy. Dogma had some more of his effective dialogue and equally great performances. Then we get a movie like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. This movie hurts Kevin Smith more than it helps him because it drops him back down to the lowbrow level that he achieved with Mallrats (a movie that has been blasted by critics till this day). I like Kevin Smith, he's a genius. But I would have liked a better send off than this movie. At least now Smith can go to greener pastures and not be restricted to the crutch that is Jay and Silent Bob.  "},{"Title":"Stupid and disgusting = LOVE IT","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best comedy to come out this year if not one of the best ever.There were one liner's that will crack you up. Who can forget the scooby doo scene (almost fell of my chair ). I've seen the movie only last night and tonight i'm planing to take my girlfriend to see this fu***** movie.The acting was great. Kevin Smith was hilarious has silent bob( very silent), and as for Jason Mewes one of most funny perfomances i've seen in years. The directing was very good .The best scenes were the first scene , the scooby doo scene, the good will hunting 2 scene , the hostage situacion ,and  the reporter scene. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith comes back","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that this film Is the best comedy of the year.Kevin Smith the director of the Masterpiece Clerks,the great Mallrats,The lovely Chasing Amy and The worst of all Dogma Comes Back to do good Humour.when I watched dogma,I think,This is not Kevin Smith it is not his film because its too stange.Jay and silent bob return to the Word and ironic Humour of Mallrats and Clerks and it has got a good staff Including Jason mewes kevin smith shannon elizabeth jason bigs wes craven ben affleck matt damon etc.my last words are this This is not a film of the century but it is the comedy of the year.SENTENCEDEFINETLY EXCELLENT "},{"Title":"Shockingly crappy","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Damn i usually like Kevin smith movies and Jay& Silent bob, but this movie was pretty damn terrible. There were some random funny parts with Will Ferrell, Chris Rock and the monkey, but that was it. All the other stuff was dumb jokes sprinkled with the word f**king(which is always pronounced perfectly).I mean how hardcore a fan can you be. This movie just wasn't good or funny.5/10(im being nice-really should be more like 2/10) "},{"Title":"Certainly funny, but not up to par","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is no denying that this movie is hilarious on first viewing and contains a great deal of good one-liners and balls out (sometimes literally) disgusting humor.  However, for Kevin Smith, it seems to be a step down and a bit of a cheap shot.  Here is a man who has brought us 4 movies who dared to go against the flashy special effects 90s and rely on clever dialogue to carry them, and it worked.  I was never as much a fan of laughing during Smith's films as much as I was finding them cleverly crafted pieces of work that I could take something with me due to their insight.  I even found something in Mallrats (the Brodie character... who wouldn't want to either be him or hang out with him).  This movie is a lot more of an American Pie/Something About Mary gross out marathon without any real dialog that delivers power... and the story is pointless.  Not a very fitting conclusion to one of my favorite trilogies of all-time... it was up there with Star Wars, Back To The Future and Indiana Jones... maybe still is... if only he could have made a more powerful film to close it.  Ah well.  Still it's good for belly laughs.   "},{"Title":"Comedy masterpiece","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith's last movie it's simply perfect. You don't need to know nothing about it. Just go to the cinema and enjoy, because it is one of the funniest things I've ever seen. All the Jay & Silent Bob movies are great... I don't know what to say... Simply I will miss a lot those guys... "},{"Title":"I want another movie from Kevin Smith!!!!!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you talk about the most brilliant directors in the film industry, you're talking about Steven Spielberg, Brian DePalma, and many others. I think it's time to introduce Kevin Smith in this celebrity list of artists in the 7th art universe. He has done, for 5th time, an incredible job with Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back, his last creation and the funniest in my opinion.Focusing on the film, JSBSB centers the action in Jay and Silent Bob at all time, different from the previous View Askew productions (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma). In the other films, they appeared occasionally, but not as the main characters. Luckily, they made an excellent job, both Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith. Before commenting the plot, I suggest you to see ALL THE 4 PREVIOUS FILMS BEFORE GOING TO THE THEATERS, because there're lots of funny references from the other productions that you wouldn't like to miss. Let's see the plot briefly Jay & Silent Bob hear that there's a movie going to be made based on Bluntman & Chronic, the comic book based on them ) So they decide to go to Hollywood to stop the production of the film, in order to save their good names.Kevin Smith has used JSBSB to remember all the characters appeared in the other films. It appears Dante Hicks and Randal Graves from Clerks; Brodie from Mallrats; Holden McNeil, Banky Edwards and Alyssa Jones from Chasing Amy and many many others. Very talented people to create a brilliant film. You should see it as if you were reading a comic. You'll find lots of hilarious characters, incredibly funny situations, and beautiful girls too! But sometimes with some weird-nonsense plot twists. But what do you want to expect with those buddies that are Jay and Silent Bob? Jay is so dumb, pervert, and Silent Bob is so... silent ) that I love'em!I really like Kevin Smith's films. He's the responsible of creating a parallel world that will live with us forever! Keep on Kevin! You're doing great! Snootchie Boochiee!!! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The 'Return of the Jedi' of the Smith oeuvre","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that's really funny when you're in high school, and when you see it again years later, you don't remember what you were thinking.Among the five Kevin Smith films that exist thus far, this is my least favorite.  The promise shown in 'Clerks,' and not followed up on again until 'Chasing Amy' is not here at all-- it IS funny, but not often enough, and not as often as Smith's other work.  I liked them all, but they've gotta be in an order-- and this one's #5, any way you slice it.What we'd all like to see, whether we admit it or not, is for Kevin Smith to write one of his trademark witty, dialogue-driven scripts, and hand it off to a more experienced director with more visual flair.  J&SB was just giving the audience what it wanted to see.And there's nothing wrong with that.  I'm just more interested in what SMITH wants to see.  This one looks and feels like the script was written in 20 minutes, and then the studio threw money at it.  It's funny, but humor fades, and all that's left behind is substance-- of which this movie has much less than any one of Smith's previous movies.Still, like the inferior Return of the Jedi, the series is incomplete without it.  Enter at your own risk. "}{"Title":"a truly great ending to the askewniverse","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie has got to be one of the funniest of all time. From writer/directer Kevin Smith (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma) comes the hilarious J&SBSB. The stoner duo Jay and Silent Bob (Mewes and Smith) Set to ruin Miramax's adaptation to Bluntman and Chronic (Based on Jay and bob) when they find out they didn't get their movie check. Along the way they run into many of the hot stars of today, and with the smart, intelligant writing of Mr. Smith, you'll laugh so hard that you will actually explode. Though you'd have to be an askew fan to understand the grounds for all of the jokes, the movie still provides stomache bursting jokes that'll make you laugh and cry. Though it has come to an end for the great stoner duo, their jokes and memories will remain in all of the view askewers hearts.  Snootch to the noonch, nugga noonch . . . Buuunnnng. "},{"Title":"Mallrats 2 .... but not as good","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've loved every Kevin Smith movie so far ... unfortunately Jay & Silent Bob is dull and quite frankly not funny ....saved from 1/10 by having a truly funny ending .... now why couldn't the rest of the movie been like that ????3/10Roll on Jersey Girl "},{"Title":"A great end","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JASBSB is a great film. Not just because it's laugh out loud funny but because Kevin Smith has made Jay and Bob still fresh after seven years. The duo is in their best film yet and their's all the usual trade marks. A very great end to a leagcy. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only reason a lot of people hate this new wave of live action shock comedy is because well, it usually sucks. Scary Movie was pointless and stupid, There's Something About Mary was too gross at some points to get over, and American Pie is suicide inducing. But this movie breaks the mold in such a big way. It was so funny I saw it three times in the theaters all in 2 weeks. The characters of Jay and Bob deserve their own movie, because they have been the added bonus of Kevin Smith's previous 4 films. Jason Mewes shows his great talent for comedy and really brings Jay to life. Every class in high school has one of those kids who is vulgar as anything, and not afraid to say whatever he's thinking at any moment, that is Jay in a nutshell. Line after line of his vulgar, sexist, New Jersey dialog was hilarious. And Silent Bob was there to bring hilarious silent comedy to the table. The film also makes a great satire of Hollywood, and brings the entire View Askew universe together. My only complaint, other than Will Ferrel, is that this is the last movie we will be seeing with Jay & Bob in it, right when we can all revel in what glorious characters they are. But this film does them so much justice. I recommend it to everyone with a real sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Bludgeoning, flawed, hilarious","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Make no mistake, J&SBSB is a crude film.  As with most Kevin Smith movies, there no subtext or subtlety here; what you see is what you get.  If you're seeing deeper messages, you're deluding yourself.  The one possible exception is Chris Rock's rampantly racist performance, which *might* be intended to be so overblown as to be pastiche.  But placed in the context of his previous performances, and the single mindedness of Jay, it's genuinely hard to tell.So, given that there's no hidden depths, is this film funny enough to be enjoyed as pure entertainment?Well... maybe.  It largely depends on the viewer.For a start, you have to be able to empathise with the utterly amoral and misogynistic Jay and Silent Bob, which kind of presupposes that you are a guy.  Let's make this clear, the women in this film are there only to be mentally undressed by Jay, Silent Bob and the audience.  Sure, Kevin makes capital from this by pointing it out, but it doesn't make it less true; this is a guy's film.Then there's Jay himself.  Jason Mewes is outstanding in the role and carries the movie, but the strength of Jay in Kevin's previous films is that he's a disjoint, a break from the norm.  The relentless Jay-isms here can grow a little tired, even though Mewes manages to find ever more explosive ways to ejaculate his expletives.And some scenes just fall flat and are completely predictable.  Again, Kevin tries to turn this into a positive by involving the audience in the joke, but he does it two or three times too many.  Kevin, we GET it, you don't have to beat us over the head with it every time.On balance, I loved Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - because I saw it for free and on my own.  If I'd seen it in a cinema with friends who might not have thrown themselves into it as whole heartedly, I think that it would have been a disappointing and awkward experience. "},{"Title":"The best Kevin Smith movie to date...","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was, I think, the best Kevin Smith movie to date.  However, I'm a fan of his previous movies, so I understood most, if not all of the countless references to Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy. After watching Clerks, I didn't think that Jason Mewes (Jay) was a very good actor.  In fact, I thought he was terrible.  In Mallrats, he showed much improvement, but I still wasn't terribly impressed.  In Strike Back, his acting was light years ahead of where I ever would have expected it to be. Much of his role was physical comedy, and I thought he did a spectacular job.  He was the reason this movie was so funny. Ben Affleck was very funny in his role of Holden McNeil (from Chasing Amy), and, despite the many people who have disagreed with me on this, I thought that Will Ferrell was funny, also (someone said he was this movie's equivalent of Jar Jar Binks). The only disappointment in my mind was Chris Rock.  His small part in the movie just wasn't very funny. Overall, it was a great flick.  I certainly plan on grabbing it the day it comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Postmodern Cartoon","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ahhh..do you see? This seems to be what Kevin Smith seems to be saying throughout the film, as he strokes his beard ironically, while parading out references to comics, movies, and most importantly, HIS OWN comics and movies. You can't take this film too seriously, it is essentially a live action cartoon. The film amusingly criticises itself, reading out the idiotic, unimportant opinions of users on internet film review sites. Unfortunately, a lot of the criticisms, such as Jay and Silent Bob are too one-dimensional to base a movie on ring true. Still, I'm enjoying reviewing a movie about a movie being made which was reviewed by people on the internet. I just have to wait for J and BS to call at my house and kick me about a bit. Shame the movie wasn't actually that funny, or made any sense, and left the best lines for Smith, and kept saying Look at this! How post-modern. Enjoyable, but a lot happens without much consequence. And if you haven't seen Smith's other films you won't have a clue what's going on. "},{"Title":"Funniest of the Year","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the last in a series of `New Jersey' films, ranging chronologically from Clerks to the present picture in theaters presently.  This film is the culmination of all of the previous, using jokes and every major character from these films.  This one is, by far, the most hilarious of them all.  The film begins when Jay and Silent Bob are on the curb of their convenience store hangout, and gives the origin of them being there.  Jay (Jason Mewes) spews profanity from birth and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) earns his name.  This segues into a bit where the main characters are briefed on a comic that was sold on the idea of them as superheroes.  It was then sold for movie rights, unbeknownst to them. Therefore, they must stop the movie from being made.The rest of the film deals with oral sex on nuns, a comically inept wildlife agent (Will Ferrell), a monkey who beats the stuffing out of James Van Der Beek and Jason Biggs, and a laser sword fight between Jay and Mark Hamill.  Needless to say, all of this is woven into ridiculously crass jokes about various sexual positions, the distribution of marijuana, and Charlie's Angels parodies.  What makes the movie truly hilarious is Mewes' performance.  He carries the movie like he should have in all of the previous, and makes it worth the $8.00.  His sexual jokes are laced with unexpected wit, and lets Smith lay in the background as the hood ornament he was meant to be.  This is an absolutely phenomenal movie.  Watch this one today! "},{"Title":"Leave your girlfriend at home.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My boyfriend was planning to see this movie with one of his buddies. When his friend backed out, I said I'd go. Big mistake! I was bored to tears, while my boyfriend almost fell out of his seat with laughter. There are some things that couples should do separately... "},{"Title":"My newest guilty pleasure!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I did not want to see this movie.  Having been tricked into tolerating Jay and Silent Bob via Dogma, I still wasn't sure I'd sit through this movie.  I'm embarrassed to say I laughed through the whole movie.  But there were some pretty crude parts, which I also laughed at.  My boyfriend will NEVER let me live this down.  Enjoy. "}{"Title":"TOPS CLERKS!!!!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  REVIEW JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK ***1/2 out of ****In what is so far a very dismal year for film, Jay and Silent Bob have saved 2001! Flat out, this will probably end up being the funniest movie of the year (Though it has some competition from Zoolander and Monsters, Inc.). Nary a line of dialogue goes by without something funny passing by. I was laughing so hard that I missed at least 90% of the movie. Also, it's the most intelligent juvenile comedy since South Park Bigger, Longer, and Uncut. The movie opens with Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) getting banned from the Quick Stop from Clerks. They soon discover that the comic book which they sold their likeness rights to, Bluntman and Chronic, (Rent Chasing Amy for more info) is getting made into a movie. So they start the funniest road journey since the members of Animal House shouted Road Trip! Road Trip!. This will definitley become a classic and is so far Smith's best work yet! Oh yeah, this is much different than his last, Dogma, which is pretty boring and unfunny if you aren't Catholic. Oh yeah, and there was a 60 year old guy next to me at the movie breaking down at every blow*** joke. This is great for older ones too! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay. First of all, I would just like to point out that Kevin Smith is a genius. Before seeing Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back, I had only seen Chasing Amy and Clerks. Both were okay, but not what I would call the 'Best' of their respective genres. I reluctantly (because from the trailer I thought it looked stupid) went with a group of people to see J&SBSB, and I have never laughed so hard or long in my life. I had to see it again because I was laughing so much that I missed half of the movie! I had a headache from oxygen deprivation, I laughed so hard. I would recommend this movie to anyone. You don't have to see Smith's previous movies to laugh, although there are a few allusions in J&SBSB that are basically bonuses for people who have seen them. Go see Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back, it's the funniest movie ever. "},{"Title":"Jay & Silent Bob save the summer!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Leave it to the directors with beards to save this summer from being the most disappointed summer since '95.  I can only think of three excellent movies that have been released this summer.  First is Steven Spielberg's dark underrated classic A.I. a movie that has much more depth than people believe.  Second is Tim Burton's PLANET OF THE APES which did a good job retelling the 1968 classic with Burton giving his usual style to the tale. Now Kevin Smith does his part by adding JAY & SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK to the small list of excellent films that were released this summer. I've seen JAY & SILENT BOB three times already being that I am a Kevin Smith fan and that it's so darn funny!  But, be aware, in order to get a real kick out of this film you MUST see Smith's other works first (CLERKS, MALLRATS, CHASING AMY, & DOGMA), since this film has connections to Smith's previous films.  Quick Stop regulars Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) are given a restraining order from the Quick Stop after Randall and Dante (Jason Anderson and Brian o' Hollaran from CLERKS) are tired of Jay and Bob selling dope in front of the stores.  So when Jay and Bob now hang out at their friend's Brodie (Jason Lee from MALLRATS) Brodie tells Jay and Bob that they should have a lot of money since a movie about comic characters Bluntman and Chronic (which were based on Jay and Bob) is being made, and they should get likeness royalties.  Jay and Bob are upset since they haven't gotten a red cent, so they visit Bluntman and Chronic creator Holden (Ben Affleck from CHASING AMY) and want their money.  Holden tells them that he sold the comic rights to his partner Banky (also Jason Lee from CHASING AMY) and has no control over the comic.  But what gets Jay and Bob upset (especially Jay) is that computer internet geeks have been saying bad things about the two of them.  So Jay and Silent Bob head off to Hollywood to stop the film from being made so these internet *%&$ can stop saying anything else bad about them.  While on their way, Jay and Bob meet a quartet or international jewel thieves Sissy (Eliza Dushku), Chrissy (Ali Larter), Missy (Jennifer Schwalbach Smith) and Justice (Shannon Elizabeth). Of the four, only Justice is the friendly one to Jay and Bob, causing Jay to fall in love with her.  Jay would do anything for Justice, including stealing a monkey with Deputy Wildlife Marshall Willenholly (Will Ferrall) after them.  From there on is one funny scene after another until the credtis are over. I would place this movie along with such comic classics as STRIPES, GHOSTBUSTERS, TRADING PLACES, ANIMAL HOUSE, and VACATION.  It's a movie that you can watch over and over and laugh just as much the eighth time watching it as you did the first.  The jokes are witty, clever, and very very funny! And the film does a excellent job building up the laughter that the last thirty minutes are hysterical as Jay and Bob wander the studio backlot of Miramax Studios. People for the next few months will argue and debate on which Kevin Smith film is the best CHASING AMY or JAY & SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK.  I would lean more towards this film since it's faster, funnier, and more exciting.  I still enjoy CHASING AMY, but as a romantic-comedy, JAY & SILENT BOB is a excellent comedy, flat-out comedy, nothing more, nothing less. Smith does a brilliant job adding in jokes from his previous films (such as having character cameos from Smith's previous films) as well as other popular films (GOOD WILL HUNTING 2 HUNTING SEASON is one of the film's highlights).  And for this, this will have the audience entertained throughout the film.  And the acting is also good,  Jason Mewes does a very good job as dim-witted, foul mouth Jay.  Mewes is energetic and always very obscene yet funny, unlike other comedians Mewes uses his profanity with humor.  And Smith also does a great job with his facial reactions and gestures using the comic talent that Buster Keaton and Charles Chaplin used in the silent-era. One more thing, the international jewel thieves are very very sexy! When watching the film, all three times, the male hormones rose as the theater got very very steamy.  Seeing four sexy females in skin-tight leather outfits make the women from last years CHARLIE'S ANGELS look dull and plain.  Plus their screen time which is about 40% of the film is better than all of CHARLIE'S ANGELS. This is a comedy that is funny, but not for everyone.  Those who enjoyed AMERICAN PIE, THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, even ANIMAL HOUSE, STRIPES, MALLRATS and THE SIMPSONS will find this movie to be very funny and one of the best films this year.  But for those phonies out there who prefer to watch comedy from NBC must see Thursdays, MISS CONGENALITY, RUNAWAY BRIDE, AMERICAN SWEETHEARTS, CHOCOLATE, and other touchy and sappy feel good movies will hate this movie with a passion.  I get around five to ten people a day complain how many times does the F-word have to be said in this film? Well the people need to relize that is Smith's style.  Every director has a unique style and direction (that is why they direct big budget films). And Kevin Smith style is the reality talk with profanity mixed into it. I just hope Jay and Silent Bob are reading this, because if they are this is what I would like to say to them THANK YOU DUDES VERY MUCH!  YOU GUYS ROCK AND THIS IS THE FUNNIEST FILM I HAVE SEEN IN YEARS! YOU GUYS ARE UP TO PAR WITH MONTY PYTHON!  Love, Brogan.  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One long fart/gay joke........oh the irony!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once upon a time, there was an original film called CLERKS from a up and coming film maker named KEVIN SMITH. It was followed up by the disappointing MALLRATS but redeemed by CHASING AMY. That was followed by the blasphamic (not to mention awful) DOGMA. SMITH will keep the good/bad movie rotation going right? Wrong.  I personally think that Smith made this movie bad so more of his jokes would fit. For instance, how many times would the characters say something about being at a bad movie and then look at the camera?  And I mean really, I am by no means a prude, but how many fart and gay jokes can one really do in a 90 minute time period? Not to mention the SCOOBY DOO scene, the ridiculous CHARLES ANGELS like sub plot and the continous rips on the internet. It was like SMITH was expecting to receive bashing on the internet. I have been reading the other comments on this movie on the IMDB and I dont know if I saw the same movie as a lot of you people? Hilarious? Funniest movie of the year?  No on both accounts. How about sad and desperate from a film maker whom should possibly take a year or two off and come up something original like the aforementioned CLERKS and CHASING AMY. I would be really upset if I did not see the $3.50 matinee. Paying full price for this drek would have been a crime.  This movie was barely one step above the JERKY BOYS movie. "},{"Title":"George Lucas is gonna SUE! )","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Dogma brought wry humor to deeply religious convictions and serious morality issues; and Clerks was a brilliant farce exposing the mundane world of convenience stores; J&SB is just.. funny.  There's really no point to the film, other than the comic misadventures of Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith as they try to stop Hollywood from making a movie about them (for no better reason than that they don't want to be portrayed as losers and have their reputations ruined).  Stars from the other View Askew movies all make humerous cameos, as do actors and actresses from Star Wars (so don't worry, George Lucas WON'T sue) and American Pie.  Don't expect anything more profound than Up In Smoke or Clueless - this is just good ol' fashioned silly fun (age appropriate unfortunately, due to Jay's foul mouth). "},{"Title":"Smith is back and his strike is furious!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clerks seemed like a movie connoisseur's dream; Mall Rats was a fresh piece of candid comedy; Chasing Amy was probably Jay and Bob's most memorable appearance(up until now); finally, Dogma was a little cheeky, a little different, but still very good.Here we are now, in front of Kevin Smith's latest piece of cake(as a famous director once said) and I can say wholeheartedly The cake is sweeet. Smith creates a comedy full of obscenities, full of sex jokes, and full of underground movie hints. And still, it's a COMEDY in the sense of the word created by Monty Python, Mel Brooks, and recently by the Farelli brothers. I must say I haven't enjoyed myself in such a way since i saw Airplane! (and that was a long time ago). The numerous appearances by gods in the business (George Carlin, Chris Rock, and Smith himself) make this movie even more worthwhile.However, Jay and Silent Bob... is an example of a comedy with an age limit no one under 17 and no one over 27. That's what creates Smith's problem. Almost every critic that rated this comedy ranged in the ages 40-60 and those people see things in a rather different way (not necessarily bad but different). That is why you may find reviews that give that movie one star out of five. Please, don't become biased and see Smith's piece for yourself. In the age limit, it's a masterpiece, over the age limit, it's anything from back when i was a kid to What the f*** is he trying to say.That's what makes Smith brilliant his never-ending ability to make controversy.  "},{"Title":"Snooch to the nooch!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed until I cried, and anyone who didn't, didn't deserve to possess the ticket to this movie. This movie was great to anyone who loves Kevin Smith films and who understands Jay and Silent Bob. Jay and Silent Bob, or Jay in particular, represent the guys in life who have high school way past them in years, but still want to go back. This is the dilemma for the guys in the movies in Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy. All these guys were in need of growing up, but they couldn't, they wanted to stay in the past. But as so many years go by, they are forced to grow up...leaving the only two males in the Askewniverse who haven't...Jay and Silent Bob. So in the last chapter of the Askewniverse, we are forced to see how Jay and Silent Bob handle the real world. And they can't. They are like a pair of junior high kids stuck in a thirty year old's body. They make fart jokes, offend people, and say what is on their mind because they don't know any better. Or any worse? They speak their minds and they don't care about the consequences. That is why Jay and Silent Bob are celebrated. Why the characters in Chasing Amy made them into comic book characters. The reason Kevin Smith focused on them for once is because they are the last children of the Askewniverse. So, Jay and Silent Bob head off to Hollywood because some kids on the internet are dissing their comic book and soon-to-be movie alter egos Bluntman and Chronic. As they head off to Hollywood, they steal a orangatan named Suzanne. But really, they were scape goats for a jewel heist. Anywho...unlike the male characters of Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy they don't have a catharsis where they learn for the worst. They just become famous because they haven't any concerns. They don't need to learn about life, they have their own unique grasp of it. Besides, aren't they the ones offering the guys advice in the previously mentioned movies? Well, this is how I see Jay and Silent Bob. Maybe I thought about it too hard and developed this analyzation of them. But I think they're wonderful. This movie is wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Comedy Of The Year!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was uproaringly hilarious! It was very well-written, and it was like one joke after another. Most of the gags rallied against the entertainment industry, but it was enjoyable nonetheless. Clearly, this is Kevin Smith's best film (after Clerks, of course). I urge anyone to go see this immediately. I actually think this is THE comedy of the year. "},{"Title":"Funny...in parts","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the main problem with this movie is that it seemed like there was a lot of filler.  Unlike Mallrats, there is no plot driving this movie -- instead, it is essentially Jay (Jason Mewes) who carries the film through. If you've seen any other films with Jay and Silent Bob, you know that they are extremely one-dimensional, one-line comic relief.  Well, Kevin Smith did his best trying to make that one joke funny for an entire movie...unfortunately, it just didn't make it IMO.  Most of the movie are fairly stupid gay jokes or piss'n'fart style comedy.  This style of comedy has become extremely popular recently, and while some of the jokes used here were funny, most of it was just plain stupid.  Yeah, people will laugh at the stupid stuff if that's your thing, but if you're used to the clever comedy of Clerks, Mallrats, and Dogma, this movie just doesn't have the stuff.  There are some really, really funny scenes in the movie (Good Will Hunting 2, the Mark Hamill fight scene, even the Charlie's Angels rip-off scenes), and that's what made this movie so frustrating for me.  Kevin Smith has a brilliant sense of humor, but for this film he wanted to make a Jay and Silent Bob movie, the antithesis of all his other films.  Well, he certainly accomplished creating a movie fitting for the title characters, but there's no way it holds its own against the far more witty and intelligent comedies he's known for.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Get a life, and you might get this movie","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For the couple of reviewers who did not stay till the end of the credits, roughly a minute after her name appears in the cast list, THAT is where you will see view askew's God.  And that is not a spoiler in any way, just a bonus.The logic works like this  if you look at the title and you think who are Jay and Silent Bob? you shouldn't see the movie.  There is a chance you might still find it funny, but you'll be on the outside of an inside joke.  If you like Richard Roeper's review style and you think he is just as valid a critic as the late Gene Siskel, then you don't have to see this movie.  Roeper didn't like it.  He was very upset by Jay's profanity and his attitude.  Ebert, however, got the movie and liked it.Before hurrying out and renting the prerequisite movies Star Wars, Good Will Hunting, Clerks, Mall Rats, Chasing Amy, Dogma and maybe ten seconds of Scream 3, take some time to look around and enjoy life and explore pop culture in general so you won't wend up sounding like some of the twerps who have posted astoundingly irrelevant comments here.The world of the film is weird, and reality is the straight man.      "}{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit, the plot of this movie is rather dry.  But, most people who want to see a comedy movie, care nothing of plot.  This explains past movies such as Scary Movie, American Pie, Hot Shots, the National Lampoon series, Monty Python etc...  Usually, intense comedy gets in the way of any kind of a plot.This movie kind of ties up Kevin Smith's entire series of movies, so being a big Kevin Smith fan, I'll give you a brief description of the others, in orderClerks One guy works at a convenient store, the other works at a neighboring video rental store.  They get bored at work and end up hanging out together and talking, even playing street hockey on the roof of the convenient store.  Very dialogue intensive, lots of gags, absolutely no plot to speak of, don't watch this one if you have no attention span.  (Jay and Silent Bob are drug dealers that hang out in front of the convenient store in this flick)Mallrats Two guys get dumped by their girlfriends, and decide to go to the mall.  One guy finds out that his girl is participating in a dating game show being filmed at the mall, and wants to put an end to it.  He finds the troublemakers (Jay and Silent Bob) in the mall, and assigns them the task of ruining the game show, so he can get his girl back.  Decent plot, lots of humor...this and Dogma are tied to be my favorite.Chasing Amy This movie doesn't truly fit in to the series very well, other than its obsession with comic books.  It has a very good plot, but is low on the comedy bits.  This movie is typically a big disappointment to most Smith fans.  As for the plot, basically a guy falls in love with a girl, then finds out she's a lesbo.  The highlight of the movie is when the heartbroken guy turns to Jay and Silent Bob for advice, if you laugh at this movie, it will most likely be during this scene.Dogma This movie is very plot intensive, and is hands-down Smith's funniest movie ever.  Basically two fallen angels find out a loophole in the Catholic dogma that allows them to get back into heaven.  God decides to send his top angel down to earth and get a woman to stop these bad dudes.  This woman somehow gets help from two guys (Jay and Silent Bob) despite Jay's constant attempts to get into her pants.  This movie moves very fast, and if you don't pay attention, you may get lost in all the commotion.  This movie may take 3-4 viewings before you get all of the jokes, and truly understand everything going on in the plot.  Yes, it's that intricate.I love movies that make you think, and Kevin Smith's movies are famous for that.  Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back isn't as intensive in that aspect in some ways, but in other ways, it's even more so.  It has lots of cameos, and references to other movies.  A lot of famous people make cameos on the movie, reference their own movie in some way, and make fun of it.  For example, there is a part where Ben Affleck is playing a character who refers to Ben Affleck as an actor.  Who knows how many people that joke slipped by, because they didn't recognize that person was, in fact, Ben Affleck. That's the whole thing about Kevin Smith movies.  You have to be quick witted, and be able to catch jokes without having them spelled out to you.  Anybody can laugh at Mr. Bean when he accidentally stuffs his head into a turkey, but to catch all of the jokes in a Kevin Smith movie, that takes some intelligence.So, to sum it up, if you see this movie, and don't think it's funny... You're stupid.  Try doing some studying, then watch it again, you imbecile. "},{"Title":"This was the best of the New Jersey series!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great, I saw the special on Comedy Central (even though it gave half of the jokes away) and I still laughed my ass off!  Though I would like to see Holden and Alyssa reconciled and dating again.  It was great how they took the royalties money and beat the s*** out of all the people who talked trash about them on the internet. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob are funny in small doses.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  However, an entire movie based on the misadventures of these two gets old very quickly. I guess I expected more from Kevin Smith. With all the success he's had writing and producing in the past, I assumed he wouldn't be a part of a movie with absolutely NO substance. Just one childish joke after another. I guess I just really wanted it to be like Chasing Amy, a movie with a witty script, good acting and smart humor.I will admit, there were a few times that I chuckled. Most of the time, however, I was embarrassed for the many notable actors and actresses that embarrassed themselves by making cheesy guest appearances. I at least stayed for the entire movie, which is more than I can say for two separate couples in the theater that left half-way through.If you like the sophomoric humor of 'Scary Movie' or 'Dude, Where's My Car', then you'll love this movie. If you expect something more, like humor that doesn't have to do with passing gas or Jay's penis, then wait until it comes out on video. On second thought, it will cost almost $5 to rent it. See it at the dollar theater. "},{"Title":"Only one word to describe this movie!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great, Awesome, Excellent, stupendous, superb. Well none of those is the word. SNOOGANS. This is one of the better movies that I have seen all summer. Being a true Kevin Smith fan that I am has absolutely nothing to do with it. I think that the way the cast poked fun at themselves is awesome. I.E. Ben affleck and code 1007/1082 (it gets changed around in the flick) or even both affleck and damon with the good will hunting parody. Also Biggs and Vanderbeek (or however you spell it) pointing out the follies of there career. It was just great. We get to see the story of how Jay and silent bob met. The only bad part to this movie is that, aside from the animated feature coming out next year, this will be the last that we see from the jersey trilogy characters. which is a sad sad thing. Oh well, looking forward to Fletch Won which hopefully star a great actor that Kevin actually founded. Jason Lee is supposed to have signed on to this movie which is the next Kevin Smith movie. SNOOTCH TO THE NOOTCH! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob have done it again.  I had been waiting a long time for this movie to come out and had great expectations.  It lived up to all of them, non-stop laughs a very funny movie. With great cameos from great actors being very funny from Ben Affleck to Matt Damon to George Carlin to Mark Hamill. "},{"Title":"The Askewniverse...","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It appears that the Red Bank Chronicles are over. Too bad, for they've entertained me to a high degree. Not surprisingly, they end with a total Jay & Silent Bob throw down, supplying none of the messages -- sometimes hidden, sometimes not -- that accompanied Chasing Amy, Dogma, and Clerks. The Good Will Hunting and Scooby Doo parodies are utterly hilarious, with Matt Damon and Ben Affleck's bashing of one another's screenplay choices as one of the funniest parts of the film. All in all, at first watch, I found the other Red Bank films more satisfying. However, I'm sure I'll see this one again and laugh my arse off again. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Funny...Embarrassing...Funny","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The small portions of Jay and Silent Bob in Smith's previous films were perfect Saturday-Night-Live like tidbits that provided bursts of well-timed idiot humor.  I was very much looking to the release of this film.  And scared.I felt that Jay & Silent Bob were going to face the same problems that most SNL characters face will their comedic essence be watered down or amplified?  While this film definitely had some watery bits (um, girls in cat suits doing gymnastics in full make-up as ostensible badass-jewel-thieves) and some completely grotesque physical jokes involving the male anatomy (can't repeat, but I will say I had to look away from the screen more than once) I found that I laughed my way around most of those parts. (pun intended)I enjoy Smith's pop-culture references and his ability to make fun of himself.  Jay & Silent Bob are caricatures that made a very silly, but overall successful transition to the screen.  As I'm sure it has already been suggested--this film requires a study of Smith's other films.  It is worth doing to get the full effect of the cornucopia of inside jokes. Even if Jay & Silent Bob take themselves seriously, to enjoy this film you definitely should not.  "},{"Title":"Thanks, Kevin, for the tribute to the fans","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great to see all the loose view askew ends tied. Very funny and entertaining.   I can't wait for the SEE DVD!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Obviously, don't let your children see this movie.  Jay and Silent Bob should not have left the world of supporting characters.  I laughed many times but that is because I saw all the other movies and liked them.  Overall, this movie was just so-so.  Not up to par with the other films.  Wait for it to come out on video and then it won't be that disappointing. "},{"Title":"Frickin' Hilarious!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard I cried.  Kevin Smith better not permanently retire Jay and Silent Bob, or I'll beat his tubby ass. (jk)Very referential.  Please see all Smith's film before seeing this flick.  Also read the comics, watch the cartoons, and then you'll still miss some inside jokes. "}{"Title":"awesome movie dudes","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whattan ingenious inventive flick.  I'm getting into the Jay and Bob thing backwards, having never seen Clerks or Mallrats, I started with Dogma and I even began to have a bit of respect for Ben & Matt. This could very well be Ben's take me seriously movie.  God knows its about time.  Matt had his already with Rainmaker, anyway, they were HYSTERICAL in this movie & they really can act....go figure. Everyone was a really good sport and looked as if they were having real fun, the language got a little bit much after the 1st 15 minutes...(too bad its not Bob and Silent Jay...) All in all, Mr. Smith is an absolute  genius. Seann William Scott was just too cute with braces. Ali & Eliza make for some way cool bad girls.   DUDES!!! YOU DON'T SUCK!!!!!!!!!     "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I have ever seen.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watch a lot of movies, and this is by far the best. It is funny. It has action. It even has Mark Hamill and Wes Craven. And of course it was done by Kevin Smith, who has not made a bad movie yet. I can't wait for it to come out on video. "},{"Title":"Makes me want to hang outside the door at a local 7eleven!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so awesome. I have only seen one Jay and Silent Bob movie. That was Mallrats. This one was so cool. Everything was funny about it. Even though Silent Bob talked twice in the movie, he was still funny. The way he did the motions and everything. Will Ferrel was funny too. The funniest charactor in this movie was Jay. This movie was crude, sexual, and raunchy, but it kicked some major bootaaaay. "},{"Title":"So bad it hurts","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was not even a movie. It was a non-movie. That wasn't acting up there on the screen, it was nothing. It was a bunch of amateur, self-conscious, ridiculous, juvenile crap. I hated this movie, I absolutely hated it and everything about it and everything associated with it. Drug humor isn't funny. Especially not when there are twelve year olds in the theatre (Of course they're going to see it!) and they don't even know why they are laughing! Oh, ha ha Bluntman and Chronic. Daddy? What's Bluntman and Chronic? Why are you laughing at it? No doubt some people out there will think I'm being an old fogie or something, a prude, but how many lives are just ruined by drugs each year? Whatever, they'll say, you just didn't get the joke !  It was an ANTI-DRUG movie! I don't buy it. And I'll never buy it. I believe in free speech, but this is ludicrous.It's just sad what our country has come to when these losers get to be movie-stars when they are nothing but a bunch of--never mind. I'm obviously in the minority and the fans of Kevin Smith will stick their noses up at me and tell me I'm part of the problem. Whatever. I'd rather leave this country and never see another movie again than to be forced to sit through another Kevin Smith film like this one. I actually used to be a fan. You can cancel my subsciption, dude, the joke was only funny once--Back in 1994 when it was called 'Clerks' and I was twenty-one. That movie was fresh then. This is just tired. Grow up man, is this what you want to be remembered for? Also this movie was very mean-spirited toward women. And I'm not even offended. I'm just sick of seeing movies like this one. Actually this one is in a class by itself.Congratulations, Kevin Smith, you just made the most atrocious film in history. Enough, I've had my rant. I'll be leaving the Internet now so all of the Kevin Smith clones can just attack me and tell me what an a**hole I am. Good for them. I have better things to do with my time.  "},{"Title":"There may have only been 10 people laughing in my theater","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and I was one of them.   What can I say? Hell I'll leave it to a professional.  Read Eberts review of the film. 'Nuff said.  Oh, well I guess that isn't enough said.  Ok, other then some strike outs with Chris Rock's and Mark Hamill's characters I thought the film was pretty solid.... for what it is.    "},{"Title":"best film of the year.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film is so funny and jammed back pack with so many hilarious jokes i cant even name them too you. This film has lots of fun in it and is a must see for view askew fans. hell, screw view askew. the only reason i saw all the other kevin smith movies was because of jay and silent bob. they are the funniest duo ever to make it to the big screen. Jason mewes does a nice job in this movie, yet again having a hilarious performance. Kevin smith as silent bob is also funny. Kevin smith needs to just stick to comedy movies. This movie is what mall rats should have been, and i still loved mall rats, even though there were some flaws in it. Great performance by will ferrel too. he ALMOST stole the show away, like jay and silent bob have in every movie kevin smith has made. Give credit to jason mewes that boy is perfect. i would like to see him in some other movies, but i dont think he would be good. i mean think about it, seeing jay play a character in some stupid comedy flick? It wouldnt make sense. Kevin smith needs to continue to make more jay and silent bob movies cause people will continue to watch them. no one wants to se his stupid sh*t about some guy        a lesbo. i realize he is making aan animated movie call clerks sell out, and jay and silent bob are going to be in, there voices i guess. That's good, but will it make it to the big screens? Im not sure. who wants to see an animated movie of clerks? the plot sounds good its about dante and randal are making a black and white movie like kevin smith. Its supposed to come out 2002, hopefully it does cause jay and silent bob rule! "},{"Title":"A great hollywood parody!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a superb film, every aspect of this movie is great.  It's been a while since someone's done a Hollywood parody, and like Scream 3, Barton Fink, and Bowfinger, this movie does it well. Fueled by the desire to stop the bashing of their names and get their royalty check, Jay and Silent Bob set out to hollywood to stop the production of Bluntman and Chronic. One of the reasons this movie is so great is the fact that it has that tounge-in-cheek humor that just works.  You don't need to have seen Kevin Smith's other films to appreciate this film, but it certainly does help.  "},{"Title":"Best when viewed after watching the previous four in the series","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A film that is best suited for those who have followed the series from the beginning.  Some of the funniest lines from the movie come in the form of references to past events in Kevin Smith's Jersey Movies.  For those unsure of Jay and Silent Bob's previous movies they are as follows, Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved Clerks and Mallrats. I liked Dogma and Chasing Amy. For the most part I hated this movie. With few exceptions, it really wasn't that funny. What a waste of $4.50 for an afternoon showing. This one was all about the $$$$. If you can see it for free, it might be worth it too you. I can't believe the high ratings by these reviewers.. It was awful.  "},{"Title":"Phenominal","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WOW...  Saw it opening night and wanted to wait to see what others thought before posting.  To all those who hated it...  You all need to unwind and relax.  What were you expecting from this.  Gone with the Winds? Schindler's List?  No!!!  This, from the get go, was supposed to be a homage to the funniest recurring duo since Abbot and Costello.  It was also a thank-you to all the View Askew fans by giving them references to all 4 previous movies.  I started laughing in the opening credits and stopped after seeing That Woman.  My roommates have even started calling their cat Boo Boo kitty f***This movie is profane.  It is rude, base, disgusting, etc.  It is everything you expect from Jay and Silent Bob.  To those who claim to be Kevin Smith fans and hated it, you obviously do not understand what he was trying to accomplish.If you want fine art, go rent Ghandi.  If you want to laugh you arse off for 2 hours, go so Jay and Silent Bob Strike back! "}{"Title":"***** Rye Seronie Reel Queer Movie Review *****","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back this is a very fitting name for a movie where the director strikes back at all his past movies. This movie, the final of the Jersey Trilogy  goes a little like this Jay and silent bob are in a comic book, Bluntman and Chronic, which has been optioned by Miramax for a full-length feature film. When Jay and Silent bob realize they are not getting paid for it, and that many of the people on the internet were trashing the movie (and in a sense trashing jay and silent bob), the two stoners head to hollywood to stop the production. On the way to hollywood, they learn many things. Like the rules to hitch-hiking, that orangatangs look like kids when dressed in boys clothing, and that sexy babes can be trouble! Well without giving everything away!!! I must say that my favorite scene is the one with Ben Affleck and Matt Damon making fun of eachothers movie careers since Good Will Hunting!There are many other cameos in this movie, all of them making fun of themselves in some way shape or form! Although the credits mention Allanis Morrisette I honestly do not remember her in the movie! I would have to say that this movie was done in a traditional Kevin Smith tradition and a well done farewell for the dynamic duo of jay and silent bob! These two will be greatly missed by me and all my friends, especially since we have in a since, watched them grow up -) ever since clerks!To all those who are not familiar with jay and silent bob I suggest havign a Film Fest... CLERKS - MALLRATS - CHASING AMY - DOGMA then go to the theatre and watch Strike Back!Well thank you for listening to me ramble on, this is an official movie opinion on Rye Seronie, your Big Screen Drag Queen! "},{"Title":"Very good movie. Funny stuff.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was actually the first movie I've seen by the Director, Kevin Smith. But it was very good. Now I have to watch all the other movies to get all the rest of the jokes. I just finished watching Clerks and will have to watch the others soon. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's loving tribute to... Kevin Smith","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a running gag in Kevin Smith's new film in which the director pokes fun at people who go on the internet and criticize his movies. At first, it's funny, but then, as Smith returns to the bit over and over, he seems to reveal himself as a tad obsessive. It's as if he has a problem with anyone using this new medium of free expression to do anything but praise his movies. So, Kevin, I hope you're reading this...Ever since his first ultra low-budget breakthrough, Clerks, I've recognized a great filmmaker inside Kevin Smith, a great filmmaker who's constantly being stifled by his own immature tendency toward self-indulgence. It's a fault that is best personified in each of his films by the recurring characters of Jay and Silent Bob, played by Jason Mewes and -- speaking of self-indulgence -- Smith himself.These two stoners, never have much to offer and each of their appearances have generally detracted from Smith's efforts. In Dogma, for example, the pair's vaguely Wayne-and-Garthish act largely took away from what was otherwise a clever, interesting take on a serious subject. When that movie came out, I complained the duo were a habit Smith needed to grow out of. Instead of growing beyond the characters, he's now gone and devoted an entire film to them.The movie is Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, and Smith claims it's the last of his Askewniverse movies -- the Askewniverse being the ever-growing cadre of New Jersey-based characters around whom all of his films have revolved. But in fact, let's hope it's the last we see of Smith's aforementioned self-absorbtion. If it is the end, then it's only because he's overdosed this time.The tagline on the poster may suggest this is a comedy about Hollywood, but it's really a movie about Smith himself. The plot sends our weed enthusiasts west to Tinsletown in order to sabotage production of a movie based on a comic book that's based on them (for which they're not getting paid). But it's really just an excuse to make references to movies Smith has made, movies that Smith's friends have made, or, on a couple of rare ocassions, movies that Smith simply likes. And I say references, because that's all he really does -- reference his past films. He doesn't joke about the films or do anything clever. He expects us to be thrilled by the mere mention of past projects. It's like he keeps winking and nudging us in the ribs as he plunges deeper and deeper into the center of his own personal galaxy.Simply being self-referential isn't interesting anymore. Been there, done that. Seeing Ben Affleck's character acknowledge the existence of an actor named Ben Affleck as he stares knowingly into the camera just isn't enough of a punchline.As the movie goes on, Smith continues to make increasingly obscure references to his own movies. These jokes may reward his large cult of fans, but those fans would probably be better rewarded if he gave them a decent film instead.There are some funny madcap bits as Jay and Bob traverse the nation, and Smith for once actually shows some visual flair, but it's usually not long until the next lame film reference. One of the few times he manages to do something clever with these allusions is when Affleck and Matt Damon pop-up in an funny riff on Good Will Hunting. But too often, Smith is merely reveling in the work of others without contributing anything worthy of his own. I'm sure it's always been Kevin Smith's dream to get in a light saber duel with Mark Hamill, but that does not mean anyone but Kevin Smith will be entertained by it. If someone ever gives me a budget to make a movie, I won't use it to subject other people to my own personal fantasies.When we're not being subjected to tepid film parodies, we have to listen to Jay's incessantly annoying catch phrases. As a film tandem, Jay and Silent Bob have never really worked, mainly because Bob is, well, silent. Smith actually does a lot with pantomime and facial expressions, but it's hard to contribute to the comedy when you can't say anything. There's also very little original about them. Cheech and Chong did the drug thing better, Beavis and Butthead did the dumb thing better, and Penn and Teller did the silent-partner thing better. Worse, they're just not likable. Jay isn't just a doofus -- he's a creep. Smith asks us to believe that a hottie like Shannon Elizabeth would fall for Jay because she can see that deep down, he's innocent and well-meaning. But Smith offers no evidence to support her contention.Much of Jay and Bob's banter, as it were, consists of fart jokes and gay jokes. When I heard that GLAAD was protesting the film, I figured they were overreacting. But, having seen the movie, I can see why they're upset. It's not that any of the gay jokes are particularly heinous, it's just the sheer quantity of gay jokes that's disturbing (count on one at least every five minutes).Aside from all the homophobia and self-glorification, Smith does contribute one original element to his Askewniverse in the form of Will Ferrell, who does his usual blithering idiot routine as a Federal Wildlife Marshall. Ferrell provides the same schtick you see every week on SNL, but the sad thing is, he's the funniest thing in the whole movie.I guess the joke is on me for bashing Jay and Bob in the past, then paying to see a movie about them. But maybe I'm just optimistic. I keep hoping Kevin Smith will fulfill his potential and make a great movie. This isn't it.  "},{"Title":"This movie fails as a comedy!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is sad that we are so uncreative as to think that extreme language, beautiful women, 2 potheads, many famous people and lots of action will be the perfect recipe for comedy.  This movie was in no way comic.  It was a single bad joke (Jay is a really crass guy who will say just about anything...) repeated over and over and over again.  Humor is best achieved with simplicity few characters with a very clear plot.  Only a few of the characters should be a bit odd,not empty-headed potheads, but simply odd. The rest should be normal people that we can identify with. Comedy is created via contrast with reality.  Everything being weird is simply not funny!  "},{"Title":"Silly and stupid... and I loved every minute of it.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, don't expect intellectual comedy. This movie isn't filled with the half-giggle thought provoking jokes that make more sense the more you think about them. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (JSBSB) is full of the kind of humor found in your last hustler magazine.Jay and Silent Bob are two friends whose life consists of hanging around outside a grocery story until they find out a comic book they've made is being turned into a movie. In hopes to stop the movie from being made (and stop the internet bad-mouthing), they head to Mirimax Studios. Hell, that's it. Characters are cardboard, sex is gratuitious, humor is toilet-level (how else do you explain George Carlin giving road head), plot is dumb. But then if that's the case, why is this movie so good? simple, it's because that's exactly what they were looking for! This movie is basically a collection of funny things happening all loosely tied together by Jay and Bob's plan to stop the movie from being made. And that's how this movie should be taken. Jay trying to give head to a nun, Affleck and Damon reliving a classic scene in Good Will Hunting, Jay recognizing Jason Biggs as the pie f***** guy in American pie, Chris Rock playing a variation his Nat X SNL role. Movie scene parodies from The Fugitive, Charlie's Angels, Scream, Star Wars. Some scenes are subtle, others smack you in the face, but they're all funny. Note Not having seen any of Kevin Smith's movies yet (Dogma, Chasing Amy, Mallrats, Clerks), I'm sure I missed some inside jokes, but I still found JSBSB incredibly funny. Eye watering funny (though not stomach-hurting funny). If you haven't seen those other movies, it really doesn't matter much -- watch this movie anyway.Bottom Line don't watch this as a movie, but a collection of hilarious scenes. May need multiple viewings since there were so many funny scenes, I've already forgotten most of them. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Kudos to Kevin Smith!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kudos to Kevin Smith and his alter ego, Silent Bob.  This fifth and (supposedly) final installment of the View-Askew series is one big cheap laugh.As usual, the language may be offensive to some people, but those who have followed the series from the beginning will be attacked by references to all the previous films (and cameos by the actors!).Its about time the boys got their own starring roll, and they don't disappoint.  Silent Bob masters the art of speaking with his facial expressions, but still manages the occasional input of spoken wisdom (and the chewing out we all knew his cohort Jay had coming).The final word is that this movie, like its predessor, Dogma, is worth seeing, owning, renting and watching obsessively.  And if there's a problem with that, just call me Boo-Boo Kitty F***! "},{"Title":"Amusing, but wasted, irony","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie IS what it makes fun of, a recycled Hollywood plot full of cheesy one-liners. While I appreciate that irony (which I'm sure Smith had in mind when he wrote it), it gets old fast. I also understand that Smith wrote this for his fans (I do like his other four movies), but there were way too many references to his other movies. Some references are fine, but if I wanted to sit around and reminisce about Kevin Smith movies, I'd rent them, or talk to friends about them, not pay $7 to see them on the big screen. I have to admit that I laughed my ass off during that whole Commander of the clit scene, but the purposely cheesy, predictable Hollywood ending was too annoying. Overall I'd say the humor and the over-used story-line canceled each other out, making a perfectly mediocre movie. Is this what Kevin Smith had in mind when he wrote this movie? I wouldn't be surprised. If not, someday soon I'll receive a knock at the door and Smith will be waiting outside to kick my ass. Bring it on Tons-o-Fun. "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that no movie would be funnier than American Pie 2, I was proven way wrong! JaSBSB is without a doubt one of the funniest movies I've seen in years. I had to see it twice in the same day because I was laughing so hard I missed parts of the movie. Of course, this movie isn't for everyone. (Witnessed the mother of 16 year old daughter and 12 year old son leave after only 15 minutes!!)Well, it is rated R for criminy sakes!!! Definitely not for kids. I would also recommend that anyone wanting to see this, see Kevin Smith's other movies first. (Clerks,Mallrats,Chasing Amy,and Dogma). This was definitely not the best story of the New Jersey movies, but, absolutely the funniest!!! "},{"Title":"Sickeningly Unfunny!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I thought Clerks had a gritty authenticity which was interesting.  I also liked Chasing Amy.  (Well, I didn't like Dogma that much)  But still - seemed like Kevin Smith might have some more to say.  But no, he didn't. Unless it was something like thisYou idiots!  I just made THE WORST movie that's ever been released, with a main character who was, like, BENEATH CONTEMPT, and where the funniest scene is where the two bottom feeders run into the scenery on the movie lot and say Hollywood is so phony, a line which brought a lot of you in to see the movie because you thought it just might be, maybe, in the same camp as, oh, Something About Mary, where real comedy happened and the characters were actually likeable; but in J&SB all you saw were these two guys whom anyone with a brain-stem would avoid on the street at all cost, and you then watched them engage in asinine Jr. High dialogue with a boring contrived plot.  And then I brought in the T&A squad to tickle your funny bone and then actually had the sweet one fall for my pal, the cockroach, and some of you said it was sooo funny when he didn't really care for her but just wanted that one thing.  And then, to top it all off, some of you sorta said to yourselves Yeah, freedom of speech means we can reduce ourselves to slime if we WANT to, and try to get the LITTLE kids to join in the cultural DE-volution, which they WILL, as well.  Just because WE CAN!  And then you laughed your asses off.  But guess who just got the LAST LAUGH?  Me! Cause I led you like sheep to this lower level on the food chain! And why?? Because I CAN!! Ha Ha HAAA!Yeah, that's what I hope Kevin Smith is saying.  And I also hope he returns to gritty authenticity; or else perhaps tries his hand at teaching Jr. High in an inner-city public school. "},{"Title":"If you loved Kevin Smith's other movies, go see it!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ebert's review was spot on If you saw and liked the other movies that Kevin Smith has made, then this movie is for you.  Go see it, you will greatly enjoy it.If you haven't seen his other movies, go see them first and then go see Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back.. you'll enjoy it much more if you do as there are all kinds of inside jokes and self-referencing moments in the film. "}{"Title":"Stupid, hilarious, great cameos, not very subtle but VERY funny","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Overall, I liked this movie a lot. It was very funny and the offensive humor was hilarious. Jay's antics were some of the best in all Kevin Smith's movies, while Silent Bob, as usual was mediocre. Don't get me wrong, this was by far not a good movie, but I loved it. It was very stupid, comparable to scary movie or other related spoofs. The other problem was that it seemed at points that there was no script, and it is ironic that in the movies in the movie they portray actors not following the script or having any to speak of. Many things would have been funnier if the humor was made a little more subtle. For example, at one point Jay and S.B. ask something along the lines of Who would waste their money on seeing a movie about us?. This would be funny, but they then look directly at the camera, obviously looking at the audience. However, this is only stupid and could have been edited out to make the joke better. That is only a minor thing, the cameos were great, Will Farrell was hysterical, and I would say I liked this movie not as much as clerks but more than Chasing Amy, and it was the funniest of all Kevin Smith's. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Certainly not the best film ever, but a lot better than most other garbage out there. Of course, you`ll have to be the type who finds several obsceneties used in the same sentance in a slightly more intelligent manner that usual funny. Plus, the major stars who appear add some value to the movie too. Chris Rock is great as the whitey hating movie director. "},{"Title":"A comedy that pushes buttons and fills that little void in our hearts","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob return to create chaos and bring havoc to Hollywood.  When they hear that a movie based on them is being made, they leave familiar grounds to head from Jersey to the West Coast.  Along the way they meet a plethora of bizarre characters (some incognito, others in cameo) that bring this hilarious comedy to a boil by the end.  If you want to laugh so hard you risk losing control of your bladder, then get in line to check this movie out.  My only qualm with this was maybe they could have toned down the intense cursing, but hey, Kevin Smith's movie can do whatever Kevin Smith wants it to do.  Right? "},{"Title":"Can Jay and Silent Bob Carry a Movie?","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sadly, the answer is no.  Let me start by saying that this was my most highly anticipated movie of the summer.  I love all of Kevin Smith's previous movies (even Mallrats) and couldn't wait to see what he would do for the finale of the View Askewniverse.  There is a thin line between funny and completely distasteful, and Kevin Smih finally crossed it with this movie.The thing is, Jay and Silent Bob are characters who are good in small doses.  Their supporting roles in Smith's previous films kept them fresh and funny.  Unfortunately, two hours of Jay's mouth running is a little too much to handle.  Thought maybe these characters might be a little deeper than was let on in previous movies?  Nope, not a chance.  The entire movie talks about having sex, farting, doing drugs, etc.  Literally every other sentence contains some kind of expletive.  I should be used to it--after all, all of Smith's movies are like that, but in the past it's been done well.  It felt natural.  Here, it feels forced and becomes completely annoying, and it saddens me to see Smith joining the likes of the Wayons brothers with his writing skills and search for humor.    What's been so good about Smith's other movies is his amazing, quick, bantering dialogue.  You see very little of that in this movie.  After all, Jay is the one talking most of the time and he's not the sharpest knife in the drawer.  We rely on slapstick humor, and d*** and fart jokes.  THere are a few scenes that I found extremely funny, but in the end I was disappointed with this one.  It could have been awesome.  It's not.  All we can hope is that the old Kevin Smith returns for Fletch and the adolescent who wrote this movie disappears forever.     "},{"Title":"SATIRE AT ITS BEST","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think a lot of this movie was based around contempt for the audience, and I thought it was absolutely hilarious. I mean, it sort of gave them what they wanted right? I am talking about the die hard fans of Mallrats for an example, and bringing back the character actually recycling old dialogue that has become almost catchphrases in a strange twist of pop culture. The way that Ben Afflek and Matt Damon played the egoist actors, and how after uttering dialogue taking shots about each others films Obviously you didn't see 'Forces Of Nature'  - You do what you have to, then you do what you *want* to then Afflek giving a mock performance of totally not taking his role in Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season very seriously uttering his dialogue like curly from the three stooges Whadda we gonna do now, Will?Of course, the jewel theive chicks were ugly as hell, and scenes revolving around them are what dragged the movie down a lot, but all in all, it has a lot going for it. A lot of time and affort were put into a very unique humorous perspective some people will enjoy for the purposely give them what they want dick and fart jokes, and others will see something much more cynical. Its great. You gotta see this film.. "},{"Title":"Another fine Kevin Smith flick!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think Kevin Smith has outdone himself with this movie. Most movies that rely on being vulgar to be funny are garbage but in this movie (as well as all his others), it fits in so well. I laughed from the beginning to the end and I could not be happier with the outcome. It is not too often that the studios give the people what they want. Most movies, the fans have to conform to the film but this is the way things ought to be. The only drawback is knowing that this is the final movie for Jay and Silent Bob. I'm sorry to see it end but I am glad that I can say that I have been a long time fan and not a bandwagon jumper. Attn Jay and Bob; no need to kick my ass! You guys rule! "},{"Title":"The Internet is a worldwide communication tool that enables people all over the world to complain about movies.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob fans, rejoice!!!  Everybody else can just stay home and watch the Wedding Planner.This is, without a doubt, Kevin Smith's silliest movie.  Some fans aren't going to like it so much.  I, for one, loved it.  If Smith didn't take it too seriously, I don't think we should either.  This is just a lot of mindless fun.I will say this anyone who, like myself, is addicted to movie-themed internet message boards will appreciate this movie ten times as much. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, but not his best.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First I want to say that this was a good movie.  Especially if you have been a fan of Kevin Smith.  I have seen all five movies, however, and I can say that this was not his best. It did not bother me that it was mostly Jay and Silent Bob throughout it, but it would have been better if there had been some development of other characters.  What did make the movie, I felt was Silent Bob (Kevin Smith).  While Jay could get annoying with all his talking and toilet humor, this was the first movie of Kevin's where Silent Bob actually had more of a role, and it really seemed to work.  Still, I am glad that this is the end of the road for the Jersey movies by hi as I am not sure if I could find Jay much more funny after this.  So, if you have been at least a casual fan of Kevin Smith, go and see the movie.  If you are the type that gets offended very easily, it may be best to stay away.  If you sound interested, but do not know about Kevin Smith, see his older stuff first.  I am about the only one that thinks Mallrats was the best, but Clerks and Chasing Amy are not to be missed either. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest movie since South Park","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  & South Park was also a musical. This movie would have been even better if there were some musical interludes ala Blame Canada. All the cameos work except for Mark Hamill - they even have to identify him because the audience might not know that this is the washed up has been star of the (first) Star Wars Trilogy. Harrison Ford now makes 20 million a picture & Mr. Hamill is lucky to be working a dinner theater in Dayton, Ohio. Carrie Fisher fares a little better but then she always has her writing career to fall back on. There is a little too much Will Ferrel & not enough Chris Rock  - but over all this movie passes the comedy test big time - i.e. it makes you laugh.   "},{"Title":"Hey, it's Kevin Smith.  Whaddya expect?","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am amazed at how far Kevin Smith has come since he shocked the industry with Clerks.  That was a film made on a shoestring budget, filmed in black and white with what can only be surmised as Smith's friends in the lead parts.  Smith went onto make a 5 million dollar film with Mallrats and then made probably his best film with Chasing Amy.  Next came Dogma, where it seems Smith made many friends and they all seemed to show up in J&SBSB.  Along the way, Smith executive produced Good Will Hunting and must have gotten to know the Miramax boys quite well because many of the principal players appear in this film as well.  This is a film that is a feast for the eyes and if nothing else, it will keep you entertained just by counting the amount of Hollywood starlets that make cameos only to poke fun at themselves.  Some of the best ones are Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Gus Van Sant, Wes Craven, Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek.  Giving away what their cameos are all about would illicit a spoiler warning and it would also take away from some of the fun of the film.  So I will refrain and just say that even if you have never seen a Smith film before, this one will make you laugh.The film begins back in New Jersey at the Quick Stop convenience store where Dante and Randall are still working their jobs which they hate.  And even though it is seven or eight years after Clerks, it is somehow believable that these two miscreants would still be working here.  They are the kind of people that are quite knowledgable yet lack the drive or the ambition to really succeed at anything in life.  Everything is still the same inside the store as well.  The one shutter is still closed, the same sign is hanging from the cash register and Jay and Silent Bob are dealing weed outside the store.  Dante and Randall still look relatively the same as well.  But one thing has changed and that is Dante's finally become tired the two idiots standing outside his store.  He slaps a restraining order on the laconic Bob and the scurrilous Jay.  They flee and seek out other characters from other movies that they were in and one thing leads to another and they are off on a road trip to Hollywood to stop a film that is being made about them.Though it pains me to do so, I have to say that the first hour of this film was lacking in some areas.  It had some very funny bits but it also fell short in some areas.  That is all I'm going to say about that because once our two idiots/heroes get to Hollywood, the hilarity never stops.  Smith has convinced some of his cronies to appear as themselves and poke fun at themselves and this turns into some of the funniest bits I have seen in any Smith film.  I can truly say that if you are a Kevin Smith fan then you are going to love the final half hour of this film, and as I stated earlier, even if you are not much of a fan, there is still enough in here to make you chuckle.  There are those of you out there that will look at Smith innuendo as being perfunctory and see his shelf life as being ephemeral, and I'll tell you straight up that this film is not for you.  But I would in turn accuse you of being myopic and tell you that there is much more to this film than just fart and puke jokes.  Kevin Smith is one of the best writers working today and he is insightful and pensive in more scenes than it appears.  Jay and Silent Bob is a great way to end the series as it sums up everything that we may or may not have wanted to know from the other four films.I guess a good way to sum this up is just by saying that if you are one of the cult followers of everything that is Kevin Smith, then this is a perfect film for you you.  If however you think Smith is a sanctimonious, dogmatic blip on the map, then stay away.  I happen to think he is anything but prosaic and this is one film that will at least keep you smiling as you leave the theater.  After all ( small spoiler alert ahead) when Gus Van Sant is too busy counting his money to yell ACTION and Ben Affleck looks strung out from too many nights of boozing and whoring, that is funny.8 out of 10-- If you want my opinion on how this ranks with his other Jersey films, it would be Clerks, Chasing Amy, Dogma, Jay and Silent Strike Back and then Mallrats.  Still, it worth an eight, only because three of the four films rank at a 9 or better. "}{"Title":"Some reviewers here just don't have a clue...","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you read the reviews here on UMDB, you'll either love this film or hate it, depending on how many fart and di*k jokes you have a tolerance for.Derided for the foul language, this film, within its own element, is wonderful. It's funny, it's the last (probably) time we'll see Jay and Silent Bob again (*sigh*).  Sure, there's lots of bad language, that's an expected thing in one of these films. And if that's the only reason one has to insult it, then I know a few movies one should see that will anger you even more (Scarface, for one, comes to mind.)I liked this movie. I'm going to buy it once it's on DVD. But even with that recommendation, I can only give J&SBSB a solid 6 rating. Just above the level of I was entertained, but below Withstands multiple viewings.I know this movie has a few things wrong with it, and eventually even those things will annoy me, but from a single viewing from a long time fan, this movie will make serious bank, and Smith will go do something else.And in the end, if we're lucky, we'll see Jay and Silent Bob yet again.... (Clerks Sell Out is just around the corner.) "},{"Title":"The Bomb","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was the best Kevin Smith movie ever created, close behind is Dogma and Mallrats.  Jason Mewes is the THE BOMB!  You can't get any better then this movie, the jokes were crisp and new, to the whole Dick, Fart and Gay joke scenario.  The cameo's of great stars, made the movie even better.  There will be no better Dick, Fart and Gay joke movie for a long time to come.  "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard I cried","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I enjoyed every minute of it. It was not like most movies where there is one funny moment and then you have to wait 20 minutes for the next. This movie was one laugh after another. Kevin Smith Rocks! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was so pleased with this film! Before seeing it, I had heard some sort of negative comments on it, like it is not as good as people thought it would be, etc. But I totally disagree! I thought it was even better! I can see someone who is not familiar with Kevin Smith/View Askew movies maybe not liking it as much or not understanding it. But being a big fan of Kevin Smith/View Askew movies (yes, even Mallrats, I LOVE that movie!!), I was so pleased!! GO SEE IT!!  "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Kevin Smith does it again, as Jay and Silent Bob find out via the internet about a movie being made by Miramax Films about them as Bluntman and Chronic, two superheroes that were portrayed as our heroes.  So, it's up to everyone's favorite stoners take a cross-country trip to Hollywood to stop the movie's production.   Along the way, Jay gets a girlfriend who's involved with a gang of jewel thieves and they run from the law who assumes they are in a criminal cult.  They also get their pet Susanna back. They vow vengence of those who wrote in on the internet who bashed their movie.I hope in the future Kevin Smith makes more Jay and Silent Bob movies, considering this may be the last one, but you never know with Kevin Smith, anyway.  This movie was without a doubt, the funniest of the summer. Sure, it may have some explicit humor that's done over the top, but it's still a hilarious movie that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  It never gets old.  They shouldn't have had Justice (Shannon Elizabeth) get arrested at the end, though.The Planet of the Apes and Fugitive parodies were loads of fun, and some of the actors from the previous Kevin Smith movies reprise their roles as the characters they played.  I have too many favorite scenes, that I can't name one.  See Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back while it's in the theaters!  It may be bawdy, vulgar, and have lots of strong language but it's sure to win the hearts of those that see it.  Long live Jason Mewes! Keep up the good work, Kevin Smith! "},{"Title":"I liked the movie. Please don't kick my ass.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay, Bob, I LIKED THE MOVIE.  I really liked the movie.  I don't think you two are one-note Cheech and Chong ripoffs.  I don't think you two are gay.   There, I've said it.Please don't fly to Milwaukee and kick my ass.Thank you. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is a Genius","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of the Jersey series since Clerks, and I must say that this was the best.  On the maturity scale it falls way below Chasing Amy and Dogma, but still well above Mallrats.  The cameos are pure gold, especially Carlin, and the situations are hillarious.  Something about Ben Affleck and dead hookers is just funny.  I say we nominate Kevin Smith for the Oscar now and get it over with.   "},{"Title":"Keep your children at home","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While the previous summary was accurate, I want to warn viewers that if they care about their children they should in no way, shape or form allow them to see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back until they are of adequate age to understand and rebuff several of the ideas in the film.The film is roll on the floor funny FOR ADULTS, and it should remain that way. "},{"Title":"3 out of 5 stars... my opinion","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a big fan of Kevin Smith's films (even Mallrats, to a certain extent), I was excited to see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  I walked away entertained, but hoped for more.About 80% of the jokes in the film are about the first four previous movies; if you haven't seen any of those films, go rent the DVDs first before you to see this film, or else you will be completely lost.  Somtimes it works, sometimes it does not.I big missing component of the movie, I thought, is the dialogue.  The first 4 films always have good dialog; from the talk about construction workers working on the Death Star in Clerks to debate about religion in Dogma, there are always well-placed dialog between the characters.  In this movie, however, there were, maybe two, of those scenes.  I know that it's tough to have dialog at all with Jay and Silent Bob as lead characters, but I wish they could get some in anyways.Fans of previous viewaskew films will enjoy this as a farewell to Jay and Silent Bob.  Casual film watchers may not understand all the humor, and does not get it.  I look forward to see Kevin Smith directing non Jay and Silent Bob pictures; let's see how he does. "},{"Title":"Pants-dirtyingly funny!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The funniest movie I've seen in years.  The constant stream of in-jokes demands a DVD release now for many re-viewings.  One weak spot the movie slows down a bit when J&SB are alone on the screen, but when they're together with the celebrity cameos, it doesn't get any more hilarious. "}{"Title":"Preaching To A Slack-Jawed Choir","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A quick comment on this film's (and Smith's) presumption that the Internet is the Haven For Boobs who stand athwart everything this film's heroes stand for you GOTTA be kiddin' me. READ the online commentary, for Pete's sake! The Internet, home and hearth to the Kevin Smith fan base, seemingly spawns nothing but fawning, uncritical adoration of Smith and his movies. With the all-too-typical hypersensitivity of the Stupid Generation he champions, Smith obviously read one or two discouraging words shoehorned among the millions of worshipful ones generated online, and threw a $20-million hissy fit. Like most small talents, he's far too amused by his own brilliance to tolerate the idea that there might be someone out there not pulling the rope in the mandatory same direction. This is a comedy for people who think what they're told to think, and then pat themselves on the back for their fierce unconventionality. "},{"Title":"View Askewniverse The Final Chapter","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Short and sweet, the most slapstick and the most-intentially-hilarious of the five movies in the New Jersey Trilogy (anyone see the parity here between this trilogy and the HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY trilogy? Maybe it's just me...G).Dunno if the phrase tour de force really applies to the work that Jason Mewes (Jay) and Kevin Smith (Writer/Director/Silent Bob) do in this movie, but I can't think of anything more appropriate. The gags--both visual and auditory--come fast and furious, and beg for repeat viewings. Even I, as a fan who has actually seen the other chapters of the VA saga (CLERKS, MALLRATS, CHASING AMY and DOGMA), could not catch every in-joke, role-reprisal and cameo in the first viewing. (I didn't even catch that the blonde in the jeep that drops Jay & Bob in Hollywood was---well, YOU read the credits next time you watch.)The story, like the previous movies, flows continuously and relatively smoothly. Smith proves he knows what it takes to make a movie that people will want to watch, and watch, and watch again. Not just for the connections to the rest of the Askewniverse, but also the great topical referencesto and commentary on STAR WARS, PLANET OF THE APES, GOOD WILL HUNTING, law enforcement, animal rights, and Hollywood in general.For those of you who have not seen this movie yet--WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU WAITING FOR? You don't have to have seen ANY of the other Smith films to enjoy JSBSB. Newcomers and Smith fans alike will enjoy the antics of Jay & Bob's cross-country quest to sabotage the BLUNTMAN & CHRONIC movie. I know I did. In fact, seeing this movie made me go and re-watch all four of the film's predecessors with a new appreciation.SNOOTCH TO THE MOTHER----ING NOOTCH! "},{"Title":"I couldn't stop laughing","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had been looking forward to this New Jersey Trilogy finale for a long time and I am happy to say that it was well worth the wait.  Not only was this movie the funniest of all 5 of Smith's films, it was one of the funniest I have seen in a very long time.  I'll be the first one to admit that (especially compared to its predecessors) the plot and main storyline are pretty thin, but it doesn't take long to realize that that is kinda the point.  Its pretty obvious that after the first 4 films in the trilogy, Smith finally had the freedom to do whatever he wanted when making this movie, and takes full advantage of it.  Jason Mewes is at his best as the in your face Jay and his comments are made that much funnier when you are looking at Silent Bob's facial expressions & body language whenever Jay goes on one of his rants.  I was a bit disappointed that Dante & Randall had such small parts, but at the same time, I can't imagine this movie being any funnier.  And any movie with even a brief appearance by George Carlin is worth watching.  George is the king of comedy, and his short part is one of the most hilarious parts of this movie. "},{"Title":"LONG LIVE JAY AND SILENT BOB!!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Had to see it three times. Walked out of the theater then turned around and walked right back in. Then saw it at the drive in *no smoking restrictions in your car. I can't imagine what else can possibly come out of Kevin's head. This is no doubt my favorite of the four features that these two appear in. One more thing, I am a happily married woman, but damn is Jay sexy or what!!! I'd be his Boo Boo-Kitty *%@# any day! "},{"Title":"Snooginz!  Bonggg!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For everyone who is a Die-Hard fan of the Jersey Trilogy, this is the ulitimate payoff.This was probably the funniest movies I've seen in the longest time.  It was armed to the teeth with comedy from start to finish. Furthermore, non-drug users (like myself) can still get the full punch of the comedy in this film.(MINOR SPOILER ALERT)Jay and Silent Bob go on a noble quest to stop a movie being made based on their comic book alter-egos, because everyone on the internet are trashing them left and right.  That's the long and the short of the of the plot. The rest is filled up by the antics of Bluntman and Chronic and the colorful mess of character that they encounter.In addition to the returning favorites from the universe of the Jersey trilogy mythos (Dante ,Randel ,Holden etc) the story is stocked with new additions to add to the motley crew.  True that some of the jokes and inside refferences don't sell if you haven't seen Clerk ,Mallrats ,Chasing Amy or Dogma the average movie watcher can still find the movie funny as Hell. There's even a parody to Raiders of the Lost Ark that I don't think too many fans well notice.This film does have crude humor, which is consistant to a tipical Jay and Silent Bob event, but the crudeness is tame by todays standards as opposed to a film like American Pie or There's Something About Mary.  No one who plans to see this film should be harping about it's blue humor.No film is perfect, one of the problems with this film is the character that Chris Rock played.  He's character was more annoying then funny.  Even Jar Jar Binks pails by comparison.Other then ,that this movie ROCKS!  The paradies are awesome, the cameos are great and there's a psuedo-sequel that is so good, I couldn't even think to spill the beans.The rather unique and modern love story between Jay and Justice was also a big plus with this movie.I'm sure that Kevin Smith fans and new fans will love this ray of light in this lack-luster summer season.     "},{"Title":"This movie is fan-tastic, if you love the View Askew youo will love this flick","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a total View Askew fanatic and I've got to tell you this was the greatest flick.  The way Mr.Smith paid himage to all his fans with this flick was awesome.  i went with 12 of my closest friends and only 3 of us were true Askewians. but we all laughed like mad and loved the movie.  Go see this flick if you haven't already, heck even if you have already seen it go again, and again, and again like me.  Congrats Mr.Smith on a great flick.  "},{"Title":"He's done it again...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith knows what he's doing - this is no mystery.  He knows who is audience is; he knows how to write dialogue; and he's a wonderful director, as well as promoter.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is no exception from his tradition of Mallrats, Clerks, Dogma, and Chasing Amy.The whole idea of a movie being connected with four other movies, all with very different plotlines, is rather outlandish -- but Smith conquers the challenge with no problem.  If you haven't seen those four, it's best to see them before you see the new movie.  If you're a fan of d*ck and fart jokes, it will still make you laugh till you cry; however, seeing those four prior to this one, the movie will make tons more sense (plus, you'll even catch some great one-liners that are in reference to the previous flicks).I won't lie and tell you that this movie is for everyone, but if you are a fan of Kevin Smith movies, like a lot of crude humor, you don't take life too seriously, or you just want to laugh at a couple of guys making the world seem like such a simple place, then JSBSB is for you!! "},{"Title":"A fun, summer road movie","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who tries to find some sort of defining grace to this picture will be disappointed, but those who just want to sit back and revisit old friends from previous movies will enjoy themselves greatly.  The most important aspect of this movie is the audience.  If the audience coming into this movie isn't in the mood to laugh at themselves and the movie industry entirely, they're not going to have a good time.  While it's clearly not Smith's best work, it's also clear that it was never meant to be.  Smith was looking to have fun, and everyone acting in it did as well.  A must for anyone who wanted to find out what happened to Banky from Chasing Amy and Dante and Randal from Clerks.  Jay and Silent Bob have become the new Hope and Crosby.  A road picture like this is a perfect tribute to the early films of the fifties with some biting satire towards the new regime of moviemaking today. "},{"Title":"why this movie bomb at box office.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What happen this was a good movie and smiths last and he got nothing to show for it. Yes I know rush hour 2 was funny but it was out like 5 weeks ago. Never mind the reviews like we care if if it get bad reviews we know smiths can make funny movie. After this movie will be taken off the theaters next week I can get it on DVD in the next two weeks. This is the best movie that had ever flop that the box office. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob is amazing, in that it manages to delight everyone.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a fan of the Askewniverse, then the second this movie starts, you'll already be laughing. If not, then it will take a few seconds. In either case, however, you won't be able to stop. THere should be a large amount of repeat business, seing as there are so many jokes, you've probably missed more than half of them by the finish. I truly see this movie as comedy gold, with so many undertones adding depth that this movie gets serious without ever getting serious at all. I give it 5 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Final installment of the now improperly named Jersey trilogy","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ever since I saw Mallrats at a very young age I have been a dedicated Kevin Smith fan.  Even though it is considered on of his lesser films I still think it's better than any of those sappy teen romance comedies that find their way off the assembly line and into the theatres.  Now two of our favorite characters are gone forever.  I'm almost glad to see what Kevin Smith will bring us next now that he can work outside a handful of the residents in Ashbury Park, New Jersey. My only wish for the future of Kevin Smith that he will not beat himself up over the quality of his films.  Every aspiring movie employee I have ever talked to has yearned for the day that he or she could work for Kevin Smith. So I await for what Kevin Smith will bring us in the future, a film without Jay, Silent Bob or any refereces to his past films and see Smith bring us something new, and hopefully someday recieve the credit that he deserves. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith Dumps The Motherload...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious - but one word of caution  It helps to be experienced with Kevin Smith movies.  If you haven't seen at least one of the following Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma - you will probably think this movie to be pointless.  Kevin Smith claims that this is the last time you will see Jay and Silent Bob together.  Due to this fact Smith has revisited each of his movies, taking the characters and locations (including all of his t.v. and movie heroes) and throwing them all into the mix, creating the motherload which is Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.I've heard people complaining about the language and sex jokes, but these are the people who are not familiar with Smith's world.  Basically he doesn't discriminate, he insults everyone!  Do yourself a favor - go and rent Clerks and Mallrats at the very least before seeing this movie.  These two movies will introduce you to the wacky mind of Kevin Smith.  Jay and Silent Bob is funny from the start and is one of the few where you will actually sit through all of the credits.  Besides, any extra footage of Shannon Elizabeth is well worth admission.Snoogens. "},{"Title":"The perfect ending to a great series","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of Kevin Smith ever since the day I watched Clerks after the video store I worked at closed for the evening.  I have anxiously anticipated all of his releases since then.  Sure some were better than others, but they told a really cool story.  I was sad to see that this was the end of Jay and Silent Bob, but being in the entertainment industry, I know it's better to go out in a blaze of glory than to fade away and be forgotten.  Great job Kevin and keep up the great work. "},{"Title":"Jay in Love?  Say it ain't so, Kevin!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen each of the View Askew movies to date, and consider myself to be a fan of Kevin Smith's work.  Consequently, this movie cracked me up... I sat and laughed out loud through the whole thing, which is something that doesn't happen to me very often.I do have to say, however, that the movie is; self referential, and that if you haven't seen the previous movies, you'll miss a fair number of subtle jokes.As much as anything, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back remind me of the movies Burt Reynolds used to do, things like Cannonball Run, where he got together a bunch of his Hollywood friends, and said, Hey, let's have a party and make a movie.Except that Kevin's version of it is miles and miles funnier than Burt's. "},{"Title":"if you aren't in on the joke, it isn't funny","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  some of my friends are huge kevin smith fans, and they dragged me to this film (although i have never seen any of the other films in his series). To be completely honest, i hated this movie.  IT was one big inside joke that i wasn't in on.  Whatever humor i did get didn't make me laugh.  Well, there were some funny parts, but for the five dollar ticket i would expect more entertainment.  within the first minute, i was ready to leave because the humor wasn't really getting me, but my friends made me stay.  the criticisms of hollywood and the movie business were witty, but the majority of the film was lost on me. if you saw the movie, please explain to me the quote jay and silent bob are f---ing clown shoes.  is that an inside joke? my friends didn't think so.  if that is considered funny, then WOW.basically, if you like kevin smith movies, go see this one; if you have never seen one, don't make this the first one you see. "},{"Title":"Disappointed in Kevin Smith's latest","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the most part I've found the IMDb to be useful in finding movies worth watching, and went to see this with expectations of something that lives up to Kevin Smith's earlier movies.  I have no idea how this movie could legitimately score an 8.1 out of 10 as of this date, and I suspect some voter fraud.  I've now seen all of Smith's movies except for _Mallrats_, and this has got to be the least of them.  _Clerks_ and _Chasing Amy_ were genuinely funny; _Dogma_ was funny for about the 1st half until (Guess Who!) showed up and the movie dragged.  This one has little redeeming artistic or humor value, period.  Fart jokes and prolific use of the F word are tolerable if they're FUNNY, and 90% of the time in this movie, they AREN'T! Kevin Smith made some unique movies that will have lasting value; this is just run-of-the-mill mass-marketed Hollywood-comedy stuff that's easily forgettable.  Apparently something went wrong halfway through _Dogma_, about the time that the S#!^ Demon appeared, and the Hollywood gimmickry kicked in.  This one just looked like a continuation of that downward trend.  Get the picture yet?  Hopefully so, as I don't care to pain myself enumerating the specifics of what was unfunny and uncool about this turkey.Seeing as it WAS funny at times, I'll be generous and give this one a 5 out of 10 -- a don't bother unless you got a couple hours to spare or can wait for the video. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!! GO WATCH IT 1 MILLION TIMES!!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great movie. Just like to say great job to kevin smith and the rest of the cast and View Askew for making a great movie. This was the way to end the New Jersey Trilogy (now quintuplet or something). Cant wait till the special edition dvd comes out. But before that I'm gonna watch this movie like a hundred more times. What I liked about this movie was how Kevin smith brought all the characters from all the movies and added them to the story. I also liked how the actors played themselves and used lines from the other movies. Well look at this morose looking *&^$%^)& right here, Baung!! I thought that was pretty funny. GO SEE IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Not Kevin Smith's finest hour.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When he's good, he can be astoundingly good -`Chasing Amy' and `Dogma' proved that. `Clerks' is still as whip smart as it ever was. Even `Mallrats' isn't as bad as you've heard, and is still a heck of a lot better than 85% of subversive comedies out there. But `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is far from Kevin Smith's finest hour.If you don't know what I'm talking about in regards to any of these films, you might want to head to the video shop, or give `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' a miss. This is Smith's personal valentine to himself - it's an audacious director who films his own loving retrospective only ten years into his career. Numerous characters from his previous movies reappear, and you'd have to be pretty well acquainted with his output to catch all the self-referential jokes. It's a film that assumes you're in the club - to the point of characters looking out into the audience to see if you got the joke. If you're not in the club, you're going to be wondering what the hell's going on, unlike such films as `Waynes World', which do not require foreknowledge of the characters to be enjoyable. That's pretty alienating. In fact, Smith demonstrates exactly the `we're in the club' hauteur that he professes to be attacking.The conflict at the centre of the movie - Jay and Silent Bob want to get back at all the dopey teenage netheads who have dissed them on internet discussion groups - does actually have an element of truth to it. In his previous movies, Jay and his rotund pal (played by Smith himself) were comic relief, and their schtick is too thin as main characters. There are some funny pop culture refernces, but in the end you'll feel as if you've been at Kevin Smith's house with his video collection, and he's been saying `Wait - guys - watch this bit. Oh, this bit was SOOO funny. C'mon! Hahaha!'. This should have been a 15 minute download from his website, not something you pay good money to see in a cinema. He can definitely do better, and as a fan, I can't wait to see what he does next. "},{"Title":"Funny, but not Kevin Smith at his best.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie with eager anticipation.  For the most part the movie delivered, however Kevin Smith is a much better writer than this. Many of the Gags are hilarious and the cameos are brilliant (Carrie Fisher scene just about did me in), but it wasn't as great as I thought it might be.Would I see it again...yes. "},{"Title":"Gimme some more of that low-brow stuff!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JSBSB is the kind of movie that will satisfy all the people that used to giggle at hearing bad words when they were kids.  All right - full confession here - I still do.  There's something fascinating about a person that communicates with profanity, especially when it seems to take on a certain hypnotic rhythm of its own.  The success of 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is mostly due to the performance of Jason Mewes as Jay, who throws bad words around like confetti while giving the impression that he doesn't really know what they mean.  Sound familiar?  It's like you're thrown back to those grade school days when the class clown would toss out the f-word and then roll on the ground in devastated laughter.Kevin Smith is a very smart guy, but he has a weakness for the crude stuff, and God bless him.  There are dick jokes and fart jokes and gay jokes and sexist jokes and all those other kinds of jokes that you never hear on 'Frasier'.  Humor is humor, whether it's sophisticated or low-brow, but you know the low-brow material is what gets those belly-laughs.The cleanest jokes are the ones making fun of Hollywood and its relentless self-obsession.  Matt Damon and Ben Affleck ragging on each others' career choices, for example.  The only place the movie steps wrong is with the character Chris Rock plays, a virulent white-hating movie director.  Chris, buddy, you've done this.  We get it.  White people are bad.  Move on.It helps to be a Kevin Smith fan, because there are tons of in-jokes about previous Smith movies, but it's not necessary.  Being an internet hound will help, though.  Basically, if you want to bust a gut laughing, and you're one of those kids that thought the words 'fart' and 'dick' were hilarious back in the day, this is the movie for you. "}{"Title":"Compared to his others, a huge let down.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back started off on the right foot by showing the two drug dealers back where they first began at the videostore and quick stop where Kevin Smith made his first and best movie Clerks. After that, Jay and Silent Bob Strike was a downward spiral of unoriginality. Everything was ripped of in this move from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon to The Fugitive to Charlie's Angels. It looked like Smith had lost every ounce of creativity in his mind and just decided to jump on the movie bandwagon and affiliate every popular movie into this one. And what's with all the celebrity cameos. I can understand having Matt Damon and Ben Affleck because they have been associated with most of Smith's movies. But why the hell is Smith trying to appeal to college generation so much? He grabbed nearly half the cast of American Pie and threw them into some of the most ridiculous meaningless characters he has ever had. Seann William Scott, actually pretty talented at playing a dumbass in every movie, played a character that did not have to be in the movie at all. Shannon Elizabeth played a nice girl in this film. And my question is how many nice girls do you know that look like Shannon Elizabeth? Jason Biggs, who with the exception of the American Pie's has done some of the worst films ever created, was another useless character just thrown in there to try and make sure guys and girls ages 16-25 would see this movie. Smith might as well have gotten Freddie Prinze, Jr. to fill out this awful mid 20's cast. One thing about this movie that could have been good but was ruined was how Smith would poke fun at other actors involved and even his own other movies. It was funny the first time they said something about it. But by the end when Joey Lauren Adams popped up and poked fun at Smith's movie Chasing Amy, which she starred in, it was way overused. The creativity that Smith showed in Clerks and Dogma is beyond compare. The dialogue, although long, was all very meaningful and used quite well in his other films. But what happened to that creativity? The best he could come up with for his last movie was beating up little kids for writing bad stuff on the Internet?All of the characters Smith had in Jay and Silent Bob strike back were put there not because he wanted them there. They were brought into this movie to try and get every possible person at this movie. Wil Ferrell, once again, played an awful movie character but people will come see the movie if they are a fan of his and/or SNL. There had to be someone to appeal to the African American audience. So smith brings in the very talented Chris Rock to play an anti-white person director who has been oppressed by just about everyone. And that character was funny the first couple hundred times we saw one like it. But it's unoriginal and annoying now. Smith also had to make sure males would like the movie. So he brings in 4 beautiful women headed by Elizabeth and Ali Larter from Varsity Blues. He then put them in the tightest possible clothing they could wear. And finally, he made them into dumb bimbo's. Something most guys would want to see. He throws talented actors in so they're fans will come and see a movie with them but turns them into shit characters. George Carlin plays a dick sucking hitchhiker. Carrie Fisher an extremely naive nun. It's just stupid. And it's sad. It's unfortunate that after this movie, no one will even want to see Jay or Silent Bob in another movie. They are two of the greatest characters created, and they went out badly. Smith even managed to rip off Scooby Doo and still couldn't make it good. All of Smith's loyal fans will see this movie. All the true one's will feel betrayed by his last installment. It was a total Hollywodized movie. And as most of us know, those ones always suck. This one is no exception.-Joe  "},{"Title":"It was one of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What more can I say? It was awesome! I loved every second of it! And don't let anyone tell you that you won't enjoy it if you haven't seen every single one of the other movies Kevin Smith made. I've seen all of them except for Chasing Amy, and of the ones I did see, I barely remember them; and I still found Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back hilarious as hell! I ranks right up there with the two Scary Movies! Every must see this at least once in their life! "},{"Title":"I was disappointed...","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well everyone has been writing extremely great things about this movie.  I for one went into it with my girlfriend with the highest of hopes...and maybe I was hoping too high.  I loved Mallrats, and Clerks, and Dogma...so I just knew I was going to love this one.  But I walked out feeling disappointed.  Maybe it's just that Jay and Silent Bob can't really carry a flick on their own.  They were GREAT in Dogma (Smith's best picture so far!) because they don't take up the whole movie...but here it just got a little annoying.  Sure it has it's funny moments, but overall it was a bummer.  I gave it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has out-done himself with this pure gold movie. J&SBSB is the funnies movies out of the New Jersey Trilogy. As you may know, Jay and Silent Bob have appeared in all of Kevin Smith's previous movies, only as minor roles (with Dogma being an exception). In this movie, Kevin has turned his two most memorable characters into the main characters as the basis for his plot.As the plot goes, Jay and Silent Bob are the inspiration for a popular comic book called Bluntman and Chronic. They suddenly, to their surprise, find that there is being a movie produced and they aren't getting their share of the profits. To make matters worse, there are people on the internet ruining their good names and this can't happen. So, Jay and Silent Bob set out to Hollywood to stop the movie from being made, to stop the slander.This movie is filled with non-stop laughs and pop culture references. But, this is all expected from Kevin Smith movies. A definite must see, especially if you've seen (and enjoyed) his previous flicks. "},{"Title":"Funny, But Definitely Not For Everybody","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK is dumb.  Unrelentingly dumb.  As in, you'll feel like you lost several IQ points after only a few minutes watching the movie.  That said, it's also funny, laugh-out-loud hysterically funny, destined to be to 2001 what SOUTH PARKBIGGER, LONGER, AND UNCUT was to 1999--the film of choice if you like your comedies on the raw side with absolutely nothing held sacred.First, let's get the disclaimers out of the way  This movie is NOT for kids.  AT ALL.  I did not think it was possible for a film to push the envelope of the R rating further than SPBLU, but this movie does it. How bad is it?  I found myself wondering, around the time Silent Bob had to put a cup over a strategic spot on Jay's pants, how much Smith must have had to cut to get the R because I couldn't believe so many obviously adult-only moments got past the ratings board.Also, if you're easily offended by (1) gay bashing, (2) d*ck and f*rt jokes (that's duck and fort, for those of you playing along at home), (3) overt sexual references, and/or (4) more variations of the F bomb than you can possibly imagine, stay away.  This movie contains all of the above, in so many permutations that after you're through being shocked, you might actually be intrigued by how in the world Smith came up with all of them.Finally, if you've not seen at least one Kevin Smith movie, you either need to rent one or find someone to fill you in on the characters in the View Askewniverse.  You'll enjoy this movie a whole lot more if you do.  My husband is a big Kevin Smith fan and has seen every one of his movies, so I went in with the equivalent of an encyclopedia for when I didn't quite get a reference or two.  If you've seen Smith's movies and hated them (especially if you hated Jay and Silent Bob), you will NOT like this movie AT ALL and should probably go see RUSH HOUR 2 instead.So, after everyone gets warned away by the disclaimers, who's left?  People who love Smith's movies.  Or people who have liked at least one of Smith's films and thought the characters of Jay and Silent Bob were at least entertaining (I fall into the latter category).  This movie, as one could guess from the title, centers around stoners/slackers par excellence Jay and Silent Bob and follows their efforts to strike back at the people bashing them (or rather, their comic book equivalents, Bluntman and Chronic, from CHASING AMY) on the internet by stopping production on the movie based on the comic book stolen from their lives.  Really, though, the plot is just an excuse for Smith to string a whole batch of non-sequitor sketches together, some of which work (the van of teenagers that picks them up hitchhiking is a scream) and some of which don't (Chris Rock's militant film director, a rip on Spike Lee, which should be funny but just comes off as hateful instead). The film is one gigantic in-joke--which is why it helps to have seen at least one Smith film previously--in which many of Smith's characters from previous films appear (including CLERKS' Dante and Randall, MALLRATS' Brody, CHASING AMY's Holden and Banky, all played by the same actors who played them in the films) as well as actors he's either cast in his films (Matt Damon, George Carlin, and the aforementioned Chris Rock are among the more easily spotted) or always wanted to cast in his films (Mark Hamill being the most notable of the latter).  And then there are the people who Smith cast just for the heck of it--AMERICAN PIE's Jason Biggs and DAWSON'S CREEK's James Van Der Beek, the two actors playing Bluntman and Chronic; Smith's wife Jennifer Schwalbach and daughter Harley Quinn Smith; directors Gus Van Zant and Wes Craven; 80's funk band The Time; E! news anchor Steve Kmetko and Comedy Central's Jon Stewart.  And, like most Smith films, it's peppered with pop culture touchstones; count all the way-cool references and win a case of Rice A Roni.  But against all odds, it works.  It's funny.  It's puerile, it's juvenile, it's obscene, it's guaranteed to be offensive to SOMEBODY, but it's FUNNY.  Stick around for the closing credits to be really amused by the right-on-target rap satire from Afroman, Because I Got High. Smith even puts credit cookies in for those hardcore fans watching the smallest details (including an exhortation to shop at Jay And Silent Bob's Secret Stash comic shop in Red Bank, NJ).Bottom line  Funny if you're a Smith/J&SB fan.  Guaranteed offensive if you're not. "},{"Title":"For Kevin Smith fans only!!! And I'm one of them!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was inevitable, Jay and Silent Bob were the most memorable characters in previous Kevin Smith movies. I have to say that even though I liked this movie, it isn't Smith's best. Of the movies he has made I have only not liked Mallrats. That was awful!!! This movie is different from the other movies in that it is a road movie/spoof, with takes a stab at some Hollywood movies, most of the time lovingly so, this guy LOVES Star Wars!!! Smith brings back most every character from his other movies in cameos here, if you haven't seen the other movies you will be lost! It's all very silly, but VERY funny at times, the dialogue is not as good as his other movies, but there are some great one liners in this one! So stay away unless you've seen and liked Kevin Smith's other movies!!!!Grade B "},{"Title":"Hilarious.. especially for already-fans","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're a Kevin Smith fan, you can't go wrong by seeing J&SBSB.  I haven't laughed so hard in such a long time.  Those with a  sense of humor will love it. )  The inside jokes make it a wonderful laughing vehicle, as well as the gags, and bringing back most of the past characters make it worth every minute and every penny! "},{"Title":"Boo Boo Kitty F**k","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All I can possibly say is awesome!  This movie was easily the best movie of the year.  kevin Smith is on top of his game and many others with this flick and he is gonna make a name for himself in history if he keeps it up.  With the likes of The Zucker Brothers and John Landis and especially John Hughes, Mr. Smith should be right along side with them.  Flock to the theaters to see this film again and again, its worth it! "},{"Title":"Kevin has done it again","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  if this is to be your first Kevin Smith movie, please watch at least the first 3 of the first ones he has done Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy.the movie is so much funnier catching all the little jokes that refer to those other movies.Tons of jokes and lots of cameo appearances of big names. this movie is full of jokes and the regular antics that are expected out from those two idiots.awesome movie "},{"Title":"A very funny movie!**A Small Spoiler Inside**","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith wraps up his View Askew series with this hilarious romp, with our heroes travelling across country to Hollywood to stop a movie being made about the comic book heroes they were the inspiration for. Although it helps to have seen the previous View Askew movies, there are still enough jokes for this movie to be funny in it's own right. You've gotta keep your eyes open, or you'll miss the myriad of cameos in this movie!The only thing I found disappointing about this movie was that being a partial sequel to Chasing Amy, I was hoping we would find out more about what happened to Holden and Alyssa (if anything), but since both characters were nothing but cameos (Albeit Affleck's earns the adjective glorified), we know nothing more than the fact that they never got back together (which I perosnally find a shame).Two more things Shannon Elizabeth is HOT! And I'd like to see Jason Mewes do some other roles to see how good of an actor he really is.If you want a whole slew of seemingly dumb, yet well thought out jokes, here's where you spend your movie dollars. I gave it an 8. "}{"Title":"big miss","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved Clerks.  I really loved Chasing Amy.  I recommended Dogma to a flock of friends. This time, I'm recommending they all stay away.  Jay's cheeks were nice to look at, but what a waste of everyone else's talent! "},{"Title":"Great finale of the View Askewniverse!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith again brings the most likable pair of wiseass, foul-mouthed drug dealers to the big screen in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  This is supposedly the last big screen adventure of Jay and Silent Bob, played by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith, and he pulls out an almost non-stop laugh out loud comedy.The movie follows the two as they find out Bluntman and Chronic, comic book superheroes based on them, are about to be turned into a big budget movie by Miramax.  At first, they want to track down the creators to get their movie check, but soon learn that on the Internet many people are anonymously trashing them. This soon sets them upon a road trip to stop the movie from being made.This movie brings back many of the characters from Smith's other films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma), and will be enjoyed more by fans of them.  It is littered with inside jokes about these movies. Though you don't have to be a View Askew, Smith's production company, fan to enjoy it.The film is also filled with some very funny cameos, George Carlin and Chris Rock to name just a couple.  There are many more, but I only referred to the actors advertised, so not to ruin any moments.Mewes brings out his best performance as Jay in this movie.  Smith makes up for the lack of lines with his hilarious reaction shots; Rock has called him the `white Buckwheat.'  One of his funniest moments though is when he mimics John Belushi from Animal House trying to `stealthily' sneak across the campus courtyard.I was also really surprised by Shannon Elizabeth's performance.  Smith has brought out her best acting I have seen her do.The movie does have a few story discrepancies; some of the past films are referred to as `movies' while others aren't. But who cares this wasn't intended to be an intelligent comedy, no this was meant to be a take no prisoners slapstick comedy, laced with dick, fart and dope jokes.All in all, if you are in the mood for an evening of laughter, go and see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. 9 out of 10- HeathSp.s.   After the movie ends, sit back listen to Afroman's `Because I Got High,' read the credits and watch for one last cameo. "},{"Title":"Foul and Funny","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the foulest films ever recorded--and one of the funniest, too.  Those who have likened this film to the underappreciated Mallrats have hit the nail on the head--like Mallrats, this isn't a serious movie.  It's lighthearted and fluffy, and that liberates Smith to push about any envelope possible.Now, let me take a brief moment to address something--thanks to GLAAD's efforts, many people might think this movie is some sort of homophobic rant. Not so.  Yes, there's quite a bit of gay humor--but that's nothing compared to the straight humor.  Come on--how can GLAAD say this movie denegrates gays when Jay Phat Buds is a romantic (straight) lead?  Jay does more to denegrate straights than any actor before or since.  I mean that in a good way, of course.Point it's a movie.  Enjoy it.  I did.9/10 "},{"Title":"Comic Genius","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very few and far between are comedy films of this calibur.  How often is it that one will find such a plethora of great actors, from George Carlin, to Chris Rock, and even Mark Hammil? All working on the same set, along side Will Ferrel, and our beloved heroes Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a comedy for everyone. Okay maybe not young children, but for the most part everyone. The jokes in it range from intellectual to downright raunchy, with so many movie connections a film buff would drool. Even from a non-bias perspective of a Kevin Smith fan, this movie was great.I heard some criticize it as too mainstream, and far from it's roots in Clerks. So what if they aren't having in depth conversations about hermaphroditic pornography, I'd rather laugh with the entire theatre than by myself. The jokes may have been open to a wider market, but that doesn't mean they weren't still funny.I love this film and chances are you will too, even if you don't know who Jay and Silent Bob are, it's not hard to learn. I spent years waiting for this masterpiece, and now I just can't wait for the collectors edition DVD. "},{"Title":"Stay Home!!!!!!!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not bad if you where hoping that the only thing would be,vulgarity,and sounds of bodily functions! This could have had promise if the Jay and Bob comedy duo where distributed cautiously through-out, but instead the over-indulgence of the director makes this a movie with a super-thin plot and worn out interest of this two clowns after an hour!  No surprise it was shorter than expected in normal length of viewing, around a hour and a half tops.  The story struggles with cameo appearances from Chris Rock to Matt Damon, no-less to keep the jokes and interest of views locked, but does nothings less than mock the otherwise professional actors and cut them a cheap appearance pay-out!!! HORRIBLE!!!  HOLLYWOOD IN THE ABYSS!! "},{"Title":"This movie keeps getting funnier every time I watch it !!!!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny movie, no VERY funny movie.  I have seen this movie three times so far and it keeps getting funnier.  Hey Star Wars fans  The scene with a certain jedi makes it worth the price of admission.  I recommend seeing this movie at least TWICE.   "},{"Title":"I'm a BIG Kevin Smith fan, however.....","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this movie showed us anything, it showed us the value of closure.  Kevin Smith needed closure to his fictional characters of Jay and his alter ego Silent Bob.  Like two lifelong friends finally graduating from high (and I do mean HIGH) school, even buddies need to go their separate ways.  This movie was, in a way, their graduation.  No more joint smoking outside of Quik Stop.  No more feuding with Randall from RST Video. No more diatribes about chicks that they aren't getting laid with.  In short, no more of their clever yet tired humor.  It was really funny in 'Clerks', pretty good in 'Mallrats', really intelligent in 'Chasing Amy'(a shock), and really mainstream in 'Dogma'.  Smith's newest installment 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' simply REEKS of being a movie where the main characters simply wear out their welcome. These guys are just not funny anymore.  Just how many times can I hear Jay say the word F*ck and find it amusing? How many times can Silent Bob give his 'amusing' facial expressions to convey a point?  Now don't get me wrong, I'm not some prude who has grown to love AOR radio or Gordon Lightfoot songs.  It's just that Smith's movies have taken an intellectual dive since the release of 'Amy'.  I thought that the natural progression of a director was to churn out movies that better their previous works (see Tarantino and Coppola, for example).  In this one, Smith seems to pull out all the stops to go for the cheap laugh, especially with all the aforementioned cameos and pop-culture references.  Was I the only one who caught the reference to 'Land of The Lost' with the character name of Marshall Willenholly? I did laugh at this movie when I saw it, if only because I was viewing it knowing that it was a pure self-indulgent movie and Smith's his last attempt at throwing the characters of Jay and Silent Bob at us.  I hope Jason Mewes finds work elsewhere, because he is actually a pretty good actor (gasp!) who can make you laugh.  Kevin Smith will undoubtedly show up in a movie in the next year or two because he has presence and can be funny (plus he now has numerous Hollywood connections...)  But J&SBSB simply seemed to me like a mainstream attempt at cashing in for one last time on two guys who seemed to have reached their peak 4 years ago with 'Chasing Amy'.  If the world mourns the loss of these two characters, it's a shame.  I will be looking forward to Smith's next movie that features an INTELLIGENT plot and dialogue.  It was time to put these two guys to bed (not together...)  I hope that Smith will see his Jersey Trilogy (actually a 5 movie set) as a stepping stone to bigger and brighter things.  Until then, Kevin, I will look back at the movies that you have brought us and laugh...knowing that your best work is yet to come. "},{"Title":"Hilarious finale to an excellent series of movies.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The final (supposedly--rumor has it that an animated Clerks sequel is in the works) chapter of the Red Bank, New Jersey saga has our beloved antiheroes Jay and Silent Bob partaking on an adventure to Hollywood in order to sabotage a movie being made about their comic book-based characters Bluntman and Chronic.  Why would they do such a thing?  To save their reputation from militant, foul-mouthed Hollywood movie haters on internet messageboards around the world...and to collect their much-deserved royalty money.  This movie is just packed with references-- some subtle and some painfully obvious-- to the previous entries, although it makes no mention of ladies' man Rick Derris or Julie Dwyer, the girl who died mid-backstroke in the YMCA pool.  Although the film is a godsend for fans of the View Askewniverse, it tends to rely a tad too much on scatological humor to cheaply please its audience.  Still, this is a great closing to a great series of movies.Snooch to the nooch! "},{"Title":"laugh out loud stupid/funny movie","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have never laughed so hard in the theater.  I was hoarse from laughing after seeing this movie.This is one of those movies that had me thinking, This is so stupid I can't believe I am laughing.  Then I laughed anyway.  The last movie that affected me that way was Billy Madison and I laughed harder at this one.  I will buy this movie to keep in my movie collection for days when I just need to laugh at something silly.I am a Kevin Smith fan so I did get most of the in-jokes but I think people who don't get these references will still laugh if they are able to enjoy dumb and silly humor without overanalyzing or punishing themselves for laughing at something naughty.  This isn't a movie that teaches you important lessons about life so relax and laugh.  Don't feel guilty about it.  Just enjoy. "},{"Title":"for a jay and silent bob movie...","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  lets face it, jay and silent bob movies aren't the highest quality, but who wants to only watch Casablanca and Citizen Kane? it was a funny movie with funny characters. that simple. so if your looking for something to stimulate your intellectual side, this may not be the movie for you. If your looking for a fun way to spend the next 2 hours, then go see it. And personally, i think that it was better then chasing amy. "}{"Title":"Hello Dante. Hello Randall. Nice to see you guys again.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I'll state it up front I liked Mallrats. A -lot-. (Am I the -only- one who got that it was an 80's Mall Movie on crack?)  So, it isn't the wholesale stupidity that of this movie that bugged me... If, as the critics keep saying, JSBSB as a throwaway to the fans, and a kiss off to Jersey, speaking as a fan, I was disappointed. What's wrong with this movie is that the funniest moments are the first and last 10 minutes of the movie, when the Smith Company cameos come fast and furious, allowing the fans to elbow each other in the ribs and go ha ha ha. I can get behind a movie with Smith and Mewes as the stars (Wind 'em up and watch 'em go). It's that the entire middle of the movie is taken up by a malignant subplot involving Shannon Elizabeth and an Orangutan. (Yes, Suzanne) Even what should have been the ridiculously sublime sequence when the boys do battle with Mark Hammil falls painfully flat. For a movie featuring Ben Affleck, Chris Rock, Matt Damon, George Carlin, Jason Biggs, et al, being ostensibly good sports, you still leave the theater wondering why Jeff Anderson and Brian O'Halloran don't have bigger careers. They get about three lines of dialogue apiece and give the best performances in the movie. So, time to give a long goodbye to Red Bank. I can't wait to see what Kevin Smith does next- but as far as I'm concerned the saga still ended with Jay and Silent Bob going off into the sunset with Linda Fiorentino. "},{"Title":"I've never laughed so hard at the movies","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems like every shot in this film has a witty setup or a funny line, or one of the hilarious situations which pile one on the other.  Kevin Smith knows his movies have a cult following and he uses this to its ultimate advantage.  So many references to everything Kevin Smith and Pop in general flow through this movie that it will keep the spotters happy for a long time.  A good comedy for anyone under 25 and an excellent one for Jay and Silent Bob followers. "},{"Title":"omg this was hillarious","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   This movie is soooo funny.... I was laughing the whole time in the theater and I have been laughing about it for the last two days since I saw it. Zoinks yo! Jason Meyes gives a great performance. Kevin Smith is hilarious, Will Ferrel is very funny. I would highly recommend seeing this movie. I have seen all of the other Kevin Smith movies a thousand times and this is one of the best if not the best. and remember Affleck was da bomb in Phantoms though, booyeah! "},{"Title":"The Funniest but not the Best","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lets face it Kevin Smith can do dialogue.  He did smart dialogue in Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Dogma (I was always secretly disappointed with Mallrats). Now it's time for vicious satire and vulgar jokes.  Enter Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. It's received positive reviews from most critics, and it should receive more from all the Kevin Smith fans out there.  it's a hilarious romp with so many cameos I shouldn't even try to count them all, but I will.Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill, Will Ferrell, Matt Damon , Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek, Joey Lauren Adams, Shannon Elizabeth, Ali Larter, Chris Rock, Jamie Kennedy, Gus Van Sant, Shannen Doherty, Wes Craven, Judd Nelson, Brian O'Halloran, George Carlin, Alanis Morisette, and many more.  Granted, these aren't all top names, but the bottom line is that each person here serves a purpose.  I loved how Jay exclaims to Jason Biggs, You're the guy that f***ed that pie! and then Biggs starts yelling at him. Does anyone say, 'Hey, it's the guy from Loser,' or 'I loved you in Boys and Girls'???  One gag involving the sequel to Good Will Hunting easily ranks as one of the funniest jokes in movie history, if only because stars rarely play themselves in parodies of movies they won awards for.See this movie.  It's vulgar, so don't take kids.  But it's hilarious (and one heck of an in-joke).*** for non-kevin smith fans; ***1/2 for kevin smith fans. "},{"Title":"Best $8.50 I've spent in a loooong time.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Awesome! Not as 'deep' as Dogma or Chasing Amy, but I laughed so hard I hurt by the time I left the theater.Kevin Smith hit the long ball on this one. Run, don't walk to go see this picture. "},{"Title":"Excellent film. Now this is what a good comedy should be.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith is one of my favorite film-makers ever.  The guy has a sense of what is funny and knows just how to make it all work.  He also has a penchant for writing characters that are actually like people you know. Jay and Silent Bob (well, at least Jay anyway) are like a bunch of the guys I went to high school with.Friday night, I went to the theater with a group of friends.  Although I was slightly concerned from the trailers, I still had high expectations of the movie.  I knew that it would be a lot different, but I'm glad to say that, it certainly did not disappoint.  The plot (I'm sure everyone has an idea by now) concerns our worthless heros getting word that there's being a movie made about them without their consent.  So what do they do? Well, in order to stop internet geeks (like myself) from trashing them online, they set out to throw a monkey wrench into the whole production.  What ensues is a the funniest road trip since Smokey and the Bandit.  We even get the smokey equivelent in one Will Farrell as a forest ranger guy who's hot on their trail.  I really can't give too much away here but I will say that literally EVERYBODY and their brother makes a cameo in this.  These aren't just cookie-cutter cameos either.  Every single one is used perfectly and they're all memorable.  Mark Hamill is quite hilarious as the comic book version of the role he is so well known for.  My personal favorite was Chris Rock (who I just couldn't get enough of) as the director.  Some more favs are Ben Affleck and Matt Damon as themselves and did I mention how good Will Farrel (I think I spelled that wrong) as the game warden/forest ranger/whatever. It's all tied together perfectly and Smith's favorite characters go out with a bang.  I'm almost saddened that this is supposedly their last movie, but if there had to be a last one,  I can't imagine it getting any better.Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back runs at a lightning fast hour and a half. The movie lags nowhere and there is never a dull moment.  It's a good thing the rest of the theatre was laughing just as loud as I was because I might have gotten embarrassed.   I plan on seeing it again before it leaves theatre and I'm definitely buying the DVD, which I'm sure, will be loaded with the extras.  The film is well worth your money and you will get your laughs in.  Just don't see it with someone who's easily offended.  It's a blast. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am 57 years old. I regularly see 80-100 movies a year. IMHO, this is the funniest movie ever made. I laffed continuously from beginning to end (including the closing credits). (By comparison, AFI's favorite funny film, Some Like It Hot, is basically one long build-up to the final punchline.) A good part of J&SB's charm is that it INCLUDES the audience in the gags.Edmund Gwenn, who starred as Santa in the original Miracle on 34th Street (the good version, with Natalie Wood instead of Mara Wilson), remarked on his deathbed Dying is easy. COMEDY is hard!. If true, Kevin Smith is the hardest worker in motion-picture history. Kind of ironic, if you think about it. "},{"Title":"It dosn't suck as bad as mall rats","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into this movie hoping it would be as good as Chasing Amy, but as it turns out I'm just glad it was better than Mall Rats. (but not by much) Man do I hate Mall Rats.  You can say that I just don't get it, but I do get it.  Most of it just aint funny.  Penis and Fart jokes are great for middle school kids.  A movie about two pot heads on a stupid adventure.  I havnt seen that before.  This movie is pretentious and stupid.  any one who thinks its good is either a dumb ass or on Kevin Smiths Jock.  Im not sure which one is worse. I hope that fat b****rd and his little skinny pot head friend show up at my house like in the movie. "},{"Title":"If your a fan of Kevin Smiths films you'll like it.  If not it's a miss.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off if you a familiar with Kevin Smith's previous films you'll get a lot more out of this film.  Those who are not fans or are not familiar with the directors work you might as well see another flick.Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is a funny and rip roaring spoof on Hollywood, and Kevin Smiths films.  Every genre of film is spoofed, so if your a fan go see it you'll laugh.  For the rest go see Rush Hour 2! "},{"Title":"This soup is overcooked!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" CLERKS, MALLRATS, CHASING AMY, and DOGMA are all part of Director, Writer, Actor Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse in which all of the characters in these movies inhabit the same world in which one or two characters or events from one movie may affect characters and events in another movie even though none of his films are true sequels.The two constant characters in all of his films are Jay & Silent Bob who are two pot dealers who always seem to pop up at the oddest times in these films for comic or even insightful reasons. They sold drugs in front of the liquor store in Clerks, They hung out at the mall in Mallrats, They were the basis of the Bluntman & Chronic comic book in Chasing Amy, and were modern day prophets in Dogma. (They even popped up for a few seconds in Armageddon and a couple independent films). Always minor characters in each of these films, this is the first film where it is ALL Jay & Silent Bob ALL the time.In this film, which is supposed to wrap up all the loose ends from the other films, Jay (played by Jason Mewes) & Silent Bob (played by the writer, director, etc...Kevin Smith) find out from their friend Brodie (from Mallrats) that the Bluntman & Chronic comic book (from Chasing Amy) which is based on their likenesses is being made into a movie and they aren't getting paid. When they track down Ben Affleck's character (from Chasing Amy) they learn about the internet and that people (who don't realize that the comic characters are based on J. & S.B.) are trashing them online. They decide to go to Hollywood to stop the movie from being made. Still with me? Well, try....Anyway, they meet up with 4 dangerously thin (seriously... one of the girls looks like you could use her to pick a lock) Anti-Charlie's Angels types who use Jay & Bob as patsies in a plot to steal diamonds. From there everything goes even more crazy.So there is a lot going on in this movie...the problem is that there is TOO much going on in this movie. Jokes are thrown away left and right. I think I think they could have taken the time to make 1 good joke per each 5 jokes the they just throw away. Plus there are 2 fart jokes that totally just turned me off to this movie. And the constant nodding to the camera when they talk about bad movies was just annoying after a while. I LOVE all of Kevin Smith's other films, but I think he should have spent more time on this one.Did I mention that this movie is based on the Real-Life comic book that is based on the fictional characters Jay & Silent Bob?It basically turned out to be the type of bad movie that it was trying to parody. I found maybe 2 short scenes really funny and the rest just fell flat.There are cameo appearances everywhere, but the only two that make you laugh are Will Ferrell (of Saturday Night Live) as a Federal Wildlife agent (who luckly got to improvise many of his scenes) and Chris Rock as an angry movie director (but even his character gets old fast). Other cameos include cast members of American Pie (warning sign right there), that blonde guy from Dawson's Creek, Morris Day & The Time, Matt Damon (as himself), Scooby Doo and the Mystery Machine (no joke), and tons of characters from Smith's other films. Too many ingredients can make a bad soup....and it did.What's sad is that this was a terrible way to end Smith's great New Jersey Chronicles. Hopefully he'll make up for it with the new FLETCH film that he's working on (starring Jason Lee as Fletch...PERFECT casting if you ask me!).See this one if are really angry at yourself and feel you deserve to be punished....or just rent any one of Kevin Smith's other films which ARE really good.reviewed by Chris Beyond "}{"Title":"Holy Shi...","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies EVER that had Jay and Silent Bob in it.  If there was ever a way for these guys to retire their greatness...this was it!!!  I seriously don't remember a second of that movie that I wasn't wiping tears from my eyes from laughing so hard.  One thing...is if your thinking of seeing this movie and aren't familiar with Jay and Silent Bob...go out and rent Dogma, Chasing Amy, Clerks and Mallrats.  It will help you enjoy the movie even more!!!   "},{"Title":"one of kevin smiths best","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  great jokes, great references, and GREAT cameos in the movie. sure it isnt as entertaining as clerks or chasing amy, but thats like comparing apples to oranges. jay and silent bob was by far the best comedy of the summer, maybe even the year. what else was there? ratrace? please. kevin smith once again shows us that he still has it. "},{"Title":"Tears... it brought tears to my eye","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was laughing so hard through so many of the scenes I had tears coming out of my eyes!!  And the last 10 minutes???  Classic stuff.  Watch this before people give away too many of the jokes.  Then again, even if you knew what was coming it was still so funny you won't believe it.How did Kevin Smith ever think of some of this stuff?? "},{"Title":"Fun and Offensive","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imagine your rudest, crudest friend...  wait, no...  imagine your rudest, crudest acquaintance from High School.  This guy (of course it's a guy) shows up on your doorstep with your graduation yearbook and invites himself in, then gives you a tour of the yearbook, pointing out familiar faces and names, telling raunchy stories that make you glad Mom's not home, and farting loudly and often.  After two hours, hey, you had fun -- but you're happy to send him off to the next alum's house.  You won't forget him or his visit, and you'll probably even invite him in again the next time he comes by, but only if certain people just aren't around...  because his friendship is a guilty pleasure to define all guilty pleasures.By the way -- your buddy LOVED Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back...  but he still found it offensive.   "},{"Title":"Okay, but missing something","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Okay, let me start by saying that I am a Smith fan, and more importantly, a Mallrats fan.  I think Mallrats is second only to Chasing Amy, (yes, I am a little ashamed of myself).  While I like almost everything Smith writes, this one just didn't do much for me.  And I think I figured out why.  The heart of all of Smith's other movies have been the give and take of witty (if raunchy) dialog that is most often very intelligent and insightful (like what constitutes a food court eatery or a race between 3 fictional characters and a male-hating dyke).  This dialog is what made all of Smith's movies so funny, not raunchy swears.  Listen to the dialog thrown around by Jason Lee or Ben Affleck, or Dante or Randall, or even Matt Damon, and then listen to the dialog in this movie.  Notice the difference?  Unfortunately, with moving Jay and Silent Bob to the forefront, the dialog is limited to a guy who does nothing but swear and a guy who rarely ever speaks.  The dialog is simply lacking.  That leaves the comedy dependent on sight gags and Hollywood satire.  And while that creates a few funny moments, more often than not, this movie falls flat.  I don't mind a movie with no apparent point (i.e. Mallrats), I just would like a good one. "},{"Title":"Boring and safe, Kevin, what were you thinking?!?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the one movie I was looking forward to the most this Summer and boy was I disappointed. On the Mallrats DVD there's an interview with Kevin Smith and he says what he was trying to accomplish with Mallrats was to make an adult Porky's, and I think with JASBSB he's tried to create an adult Pee-Wee's Big Adventure right down to the chase through a movie studio climax, but who's been asking for one. What's made Jay and Bob so funny in the past has been their interaction with the more serious characters of the movie (ie. the diner scene in 'Amy'). By making the supporting characters in JASBSB more silly and stupid than them eliminates any intelligence from the movie at all. The Wildlife Ranger, the Scooby Doo gang, the girl gang, the racist movie director ... all non-funny. Here's a hint. If you want to make a movie where swearing, d*ck jokes, and gay bashing, are the main focus of getting laughes, then direct the swearing, d*ck jokes, and gay bashing to the people that will be most offended by them, not to the people that are into it. For example the hitch-hiking scene with Carrie Fisher as a nun, works very well, because SHES A NUN, it wouldn't be funny if she was a whore. But what would have been even better, would be for her to be into it. That's pushing the envelope, that's being cutting edge. As far as the references to Smith's past movies. It's cute for the people that are familiar, but not funny to the people that are not (IE. the Buddy Christ statue on the dashboard of the nuns car).What I wanted was biting, squirming in my seat, brutal-humor and all I got was dumb-cops and monkeys. Very disappointing. 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"why this movie bomb at box office.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I give this movie 10 out of 10 but no one went to see it I know the movie company is mad that it did nothing at the box office. And that is sad its smiths last movie and it came in number 3 the reviews was not good and I know a lot of kids do not know any of smiths movie but it could did better than this but it a funny movie maybe e years from now when its out on DVD it will be became a classics. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a F*%#ing hot twosome!!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a huge fan of Jason Mewes, I find that it is WONDERFUL that a movie was made with Jay and his hetero-life-mate, Silent Bob as the main characters! In my personal opinion, Jay is the hottest actor out there, so watching him for the better part of an hour and a half was quite invigorating. Silent Bob, as always was great with the facial expressions. You can't beat the reaction of a pear of bulging eyes on that face of his. The movie is great, but one can only get the jokes if they've seen it's 4 predecessors. My advice? GO SEE IT.... JAY AND BOB ARE A COUPLE OF HILARIOUS MOTHERF*%#ERS!p.s. The ending is quite amusingP "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  IF you have not seen Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma, I suggest you see them first before watching JSBSB.  If you are offended by swearing, sexual words/comments/innuendo, and homosexuality, I suggest you exit stage left.This movie was spectacular.  Kevin Smith is a genius.  The cameos, the potshots at Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, the potshots at big named movies, and the playing to the audience...  Most definitely in my top ten funniest movies list...Keep up the good work Kevin, can't wait to see more!  "},{"Title":"U WILL LAUGH UR NUTZ OFF WITH A Z!!!!!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the funniest movies i have seen in a long time!!! It was the funniest movie saw since Dogma!!! Kevin Smith is a Brilliant writter who can make a movie that can talk to his die hard fans with inside jokes but also make the movie friendly and enjoyable for people who may have never seen a movie of his in there lifes. With that talent i believe this is one of his best pieces of work to date!!!! This movie will be the most profitable for him and the whole Viewaskewneniverse!!!! If u love Kevin Smith u will also love this movie and even if u never heard of him before u still will find this movie very amusing!!!!So please go and see this movie and push it up to #1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"not as good as expected.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS---there is one problem with all the great reviews this film seems to be getting, it raises the bar when its your turn to view it.  i was expecting nothing less than comedy gold and i what i got was an OK movie that lost its direction.  i too am a fan of the View Askew world.  Clerks and Mallrats are fun and funny movies that stick with you.  Strikes Back had all the makings for another classic but falls just short.  there were moments where i couldnt stop laughing and there were moments where i was just staring blank at the screen.  seems after the first 30 minutes the movie lost some steam but picked up again for the ending.  ill start with the good.  There were some damn funny one-liners in this movie.  What The F#*k Is The Internet?  still has me rolling, as does the small part when Will Ferrell attempts to jump over his car.  Jason Biggs is great and so is Mark Hammil.  problem is there are too many cameos that dont make the cut. George Carlin is the funniest man ever put on this earth, or any other planet, but that doesnt mean you get pure comedy.  his part may have looked funny on paper but failed to get one chuckle from the crowed.  Shannon Elizibeth may be Jay's dream but her nerdy ways envoked deep R.E.M. sleep for me.  the jewel hiest seemed forced and only worked to muddy up story, this movie didnt need a bigger plot.  trying to stop Bluntman and Chronic was enough, what came after that wasnt needed and is where i find fault with this movie.  while the other Askew flicks were direct and to the point, this one trailed off at times.  with that said, i did enjoy this, i look forward to seeing it again when blockbuster gets it.  im sure it will be enjoyed in my house for years to come, but too much buildup and just a tad disappointment makes me give this movie 6 stars out of 10.  could and should have been better.  but works because Jason Lea is too funny! "},{"Title":"Stoners Make Good","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was funnier than I expected. Although I have highly enjoyed Kevin Smiths earlier films (Mae Day,Clerks, MALLRATS, Chasing Amy, and Dogma), It seemed, from the previews, that this film was going to be a campy Kevin Smith sells out piece of crap. I was wrong. This movie had me laughing harder than any of the others. This movie holds up to a first time Kevin Smith consumer, as well as a ViewAskew die-hard. As Kevin rightly puts it,  This is a dumb movie, for smart people.Chasing Mallclerks "},{"Title":"Fan or not, this has something for all.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith does what few directors would ever have the balls to do. He created a movie with virtually no plot holding it together and, more importantly, made it work. Though heavy on offensive material, there is no doubting Smith's work as writer/director of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Skit after skit is played out and held together loosely by Smith's staple pushers, loud mouth, trash-talking pothead Jay (Jason Mewes) and aptly named Silent Bob (Smith himself), and Wildlife Marshall Wilenholly (Saturday Night Live's Will Ferrell) who is chasing the duo for stealing a monkey (don't ask). While there are a few underlying stories to make the movie have some point, this movie is so heavily skit oriented that you'd think it was an episode of Mr. Show starring Bob and Dave only because they continue without so much as a break.Tackling serious subject matter in his last two films, Smith decided to try something lighter. Still heavy with his pop culture references, though, comes Smith with a great supporting cast and so many jabs at the film industry and the geeks on the internet that you can't help but love this movie... especially if you've watched and enjoyed Smith's previous films.Without a doubt (and without a plot), this was the funniest movie out so far this year and looks to stay that way. If you can handle immature subject matter for mature audiences, then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Funny","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, by far, is definitely the funniest out of all of Smith's movies.  I am a huge Kevin Smith fan, and despite what someone else said about this not being intelligent, I think this movie is quite intelligent, especially with a lot of the in-jokes (how many people actually got the Phantoms reference to Ben Affleck as a joke related to the DVD commentary for one of the movies?), Hollywood humor and sharp dialogue related to the real purpose of the internet? -)As an amateur screenwriter myself, Kevin Smith is my idol.  He has a way of making dialogue crackle and pop.  And he didn't fail with this last installment in the series. "},{"Title":"oh man, what a movie.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was priceless. Absolutely priceless. I've never laughed so damn much for at least a year or two. By FAR, it's the funniest movie in a LONG time. And I personally think that this one was the best out of ALL the Kevin Smith movies. God I hope there are more to come, it was great. GREAT I tell you!Liz "},{"Title":"A two-faced satire on pop culture","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I want you to see this movie twice in the theaters.  Once with your good time party friends and once with your dad on a Sunday morning.  This will put the movie into two complete perspectives.  With your pop culture saavy friends, this movie is an funny satire into current popular movies, actors, directors, music, and even the Napster controversey.  There's even jokes making fun of Kevin Smith himself, along with some older pop culture references like a few scenes out of Peewee's Big Adventure, etc etc.  This side of the Jay and Silent Bob is an extremely funny and fun ending to the Jersey trilogy.  Now see the movie again with your father on a Sunday morning.  For those people completely alien to all the inside references, Kevin Smith films, and Mystery Mobile toking controversies, etc etc you might as well sleep through this film.  If you identify more with Dante and Randal pseudo-intellectual guys who are serious, critical, and often insensitive much of the time, it's probably best to skip this film.  You would probably enjoy Clerks more.  But if you would see Jay and Silent Bob as good lead characters because you find yourself identifying more with them, check this film out.  "},{"Title":"A Very Fun Film...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, however, this is not the movie that you can just go see.  I went with two friends who had not seen any other Kevin Smith movies, and I feel that they did not get all the jokes.  I highly recommend this film, but do yourself a favor and rent Chasing Amy and Clerks before you see it.  I haven't seen Mallrats, but I don't think that there was too many Mallrats jokes in the film and as far as I could tell, there weren't any Dogman jokes.  Additionally, I don't recall seeing Alanis Morissette anywhere. "},{"Title":"Thank You, KEVIN!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just got home from seeing Kevin Smith's latest film, Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back. I was looking forward to seeing this, as I'm a huge fan of Kevin's films, but I was a little worried I was going to be disappointed. I love Jay and Silent Bob, but I wasn't exactly sure how they were going to carry the weight as the stars for two solid hours.I needn't have worried. This is, without a doubt, one of the funniest films I've seen in ages, and a fitting end to what is now a five-film trilogy. Of course, having the foresight that comes from repeated viewings of the other four films, while not required, is highly recommended. Smith's characters have had a way of cross-pollinating in his movies, and JSBSB is hardly the exception.To fill you in on what little plot you have to worry about Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Director Kevin Smith) discover that the rights to Bluntman and Chronic, a comic-book super-duo based on themselves, have been sold to Miramax and filming is underway on a feature movie. After learning that they were becoming the brunt of criticism on an Internet film site by arm-chair critics, they hitch-hike their way to Hollywood to stop the movie and save their reputations from ruin. On the way, they get picked up by a van of animal-rights activists who are en route to a animal-testing facility with plans to break in and rescue a lab monkey. Through a series of events (and I'm leaving tons out here specifically to avoid spoiling it for anyone), Jay and Bob become fugitives on the lam - and monkey-sitters - as they continue their westward journey to put a stop to the movie.Don't worry, it works.This film entertains on so many different levels. Of course, my favorite boneheads are at their profane best - but it's so much more than that. This film is savagely funny as it attacks Miramax (the distributor of three of Smith's films, who backed out on his fourth, Dogma, after protests from the Catholic community), Internet couch-potato critic wannabes, and the corporate film industry itself. It lampoons a good number of Hollywood films, often using the very actors (and directors!) from these films to achieve this. It pulls in plot threads and jokes from all of his other films (a good reason to watch the first four - if you haven't already - before seeing it). This film is scathing, but also self-deprecating. And it's undeniably obvious that everyone had a blast making this picture.Of course, it's foul and tasteless from start to finish. If you think you might be the least bit offended, trust me - you will be. There's something in this film to offend just about everyone. But if you have the intelligence and sense of humor to see it for what it is - and if you've enjoyed any Kevin Smith movie, you probably qualify - you'll have a blast, like I did.I laughed out loud - repeatedly - through this movie.I hate to see the New Jersey Trilogy draw to a close, but if it has to end, I doubt it could have ended on a more satisfying note than it did (for me, at least) with JSBSB.  "},{"Title":"Exactly what I was looking for!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching 4 New Jersey films from Kevin Smith I wasn't quite sure what to expect from Jay and Silent Bob.  What I got blew me away!!!!  This movie was for themselves and all the fans who have followed Dante, Brodie, Bankie, Steve Dave, Fan boy and the rest.  It's no Godfather of course, I'm just glad Kevin put New Jersey to bed this way.  Thank you Kevin, thank you!!! "},{"Title":"The worst of the Jersey Chronicles","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie today thinking that I'd have a grand-ole time.  I knew I'd read 3 reviews in the Washington Post, and 1 in USA Today, and all of them said that this movie was not great, but it sure was fun to sit through. However, I didn't feel the same way.  Sure, there were funny parts, but in the end, I felt like I was cheated out of my 101 minutes.  I bet all you Kevin Smith fans are thinking This guy doesn't like the movie, because he's not a fan, like me.  If he were, then he'd understand.  And let me tell you, I'm a big a Kevin Smith fan as the next guy, but this movie really didn't appeal to me.  I think Jay and Silent Bob are best at being supportive roles, instead of leading roles.  My final thought If you put all the funny parts together, you'd finish watching them, before you finished a bag of M&M's. "}{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best; Arguably the Best Comedy of the Year (warning small spoilers on certain jokes)","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With the well-known comic wisdom interlaced with the most hilarious uses of profanity always found in Kevin Smith films, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back may be the best of the View Askew/Jersey Saga yet, for it serves as a knot, tying together all of the previous films, including the Smith-produced Good Will Hunting. Jason Lee (in two roles), Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Rene Humphrey (*sigh* Trish the Dish!), Brian O'Halloran, and many others reprise their previous roles, while Shannen Doherty (Mallrats), Matt Damon (Chasing Amy, Dogma), Chris Rock (Dogma), and George Carlin (Dogma) return in new roles.Eliza Dushka and Ali Larter keep the hornballs enthused, while Shannon Elizabeth stands as a saving grace for bombshells everywhere by playing a caring, glasses-wearing teddy bear. Her relationship with Jay surprisingly enough makes J&SB a love story as well.Not only does the movie reuse old jokes that nod to previous films, such as the Dante working on his day off in `Clerks,' but it also acknowledges the audience three times, such as with Ben Affleck asking `who would pay to see a movie about Jay and Silent Bob,' then looking at the camera.Playing off TV shows and other summer movies (and ones from the recent past), J&SB pokes fun at Scream, The Matrix, Barney, The Fugitive, Dawson's Creek, American Pie (drawing heavily from that cast as well), Planet of the Apes, Good Will Hunting, and, as the title suggests, Stars Wars The Empire Strikes Back. Even Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill appear. Hamill says that someone is going to sue George Lucas when Silent Bob uses the force ( la Mallrats) to retrieve a bong lightsabre. As with his roles as The Joker on Batman TAS, Hobgoblin from the Spider-Man cartoon, and The Trickster from The Flash television series, Hamill (who won't let James van der Beek upstage him) excellently portrays the Bluntman & Chronic villain known as the Cock-knocker.As for using Good Will Hunting, J&SB appear on the set of GWH2 Hunting Season, which takes quite a violent turn from the original's more intellectual tone (as the title suggests).All in all, the entire movie has been long in the planning. Smith fans may recall how Mallrats ended with J&SB walking away with an orang utan saying that it was another story. This movie IS that story. Because of these kinds of allusions to Smith's previous films, I suggest for anyone who has yet to see J&SB that they watch Good Will Hunting and the previous four View Askew films (Dogma, while hilarious, is not as pertinent, for it is only mentioned once by Matt Damon). And for those who have already seen J&SB, watch the other movies anyway &#150; it will make J&SB so much more understandable and thus funnier.PS &#150; Will Ferrell is his usual humorously annoying self. "},{"Title":"From the bottom of my heart...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just want to say thank you to Kevin Smith.  And thank you to Miramax for greenlighting this enormous inside joke for us View Askew fans.  Never have I had so much fun in a movie theater, aside from my sneaking into my first R-rated movie(Damn the MPAA!). This film keeps you with a smile on your face, especially with the blink or you'll miss it Snowball/Grizzly Adams, Jay's Berserker shirt, and the Buddy Christ on Carrie Fisher's dashboard. This film is a fitting end to the New Jersey 'Trilogy', which has provided us with great quotes and memories.  For me, it has always been memories of my parents' faces and comments about the films.  How did you see Clerks?!? This is inappropriate! Turn it off. Thanks for everything, especially inspiration for us future filmmakers.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of that year!!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is really funny. The movie centers around Jay & Silent Bob's quest to go to Hollywood to get the likeness rights money owed to them by Chasing Amy's Banky Edwards. Banky is making the Bluntman & Chronic movie starring James Van Der Beek and Jason Biggs (As Jay & Silent Bob respectively and also their comic counter parts Blunt Man (Silent Bob's alter ego in the comics)and Chronic (Jay's alter ego in the comics).) This movie is filled with fantastic cameo's by Basically everyone in Smith's prior films (Except Linda Fiorentino, Claire Forlaini, Jeremy London & Alan Rickman.) Also Spoofed on are a few movies in production (Scooby Doo, Dare Devil, Scream 4). It is a damn good way to say goodbye to Jersey's favorite duo. F*** Springsteen & Bon Jovi, Kevin Smith is Jersey's Icon. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith delivers....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's exactly what I was hoping for.  A fitting farewell to J&SB.  The PR interviews with Kevin Smith remind one of his immense skill with words.  As with Dogma, the director's commentary track ont he DVD (I would order it today if I could) should be yummy indeed. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hysterical!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though Dogma was the one that converted me to the Askewniverse, I prepared for Jay & Silent Bob... by watching Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Mallrats twice (although, admittedly, Mallrats was a bit more difficult to sit through).  I, personally, am hardly put off by the use of strong language and sexual innuendo - especially if that's all there is.  When I finally saw Jay & Silent Bob..., not only did I hurt myself laughing, but I was happily surprised by style of the fight sequences.Yes, action fans, THERE ARE FIGHT SEQUENCES!  Very well done, too, I might add...  I'd elaborate more, but I shouldn't risk spoiling the comedy.I found watching the film to be a great experience, partly because of the mad-cap storyline, but also because I am a MAJOR fan of Kevin Smith's sense of humor and Jason Mewes' ability to deliver paragraphs of lines without skipping a beat (sadly, I have yet to see him in any other movies without Smith).  Great job, boys!  Much luck to both of you...Since there's little else I can say about this film that hasn't already been said, I must tell you, with COMPLETE sincerity, that this movie was absolutely hysterical! "},{"Title":"Best of the View Askew Universe...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I tried my best to avoid the previews from this movie, because I was looking forward to it, and I didn't want to lose any of the surprise.  I figured that there was NO way this movie could match the expectation.I was wrong.This movie takes self-deprecation to a new level.  Not only Kevin Smith, but also just about every person appearing in the film (and Miramax itself) is spoofed in this film.  Plenty of in-jokes, both referring to the Kevin Smith films and some of the most popular movies of the past.I had heard that Kevin Smith said he would stop making films soon, when he had said all he had to say.  I hate to say it, because I've loved all of Smith's films (I'll make no comment on the Clerks cartoon...yech), but if this turns out to be his last movie, he will have gone out in rare form, at the top of his game. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith hit the nail on the head with this one!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far his funniest movie! I've already seen it three times, and when i come home, i am always still wiping the tears from my face! I love this movie, and i think this is the funniest...wait...make that the best of 2001! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you do not like Kevin Smith, you will NOT like this movie.  Having said that, Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) has created his funniest movie so far. Indeed,a fitting conclusion to his New Jersey Trilogy.  Definitely a fans movie.  If you are not familiar with Kevin Smith's work, then I would definitely recommend giving this one a try.  If you like, all his movies are available on VHS and DVD.  > "},{"Title":"Good, But He's Capable of Better","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back is not a great movie but it's not supposed to be.  Instead of the funny with a message movies Kevin Smith has made like 'Dogma' and 'Chasing Amy' (Those were great films).  Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back is simply a funny movie.  It's obvious watching Dogma that Kevin Smith is a very intelligent writer/director that is capable of making his audience think as well a bust a gut.  His latest flick is for the pre-teens and stoners who love Jay And Silent Bob and thought 'Mallrats' was as humorous as 'Annie Hall'.  The movie is hilarious once you realize this isn't going to be 'Chasing Amy'.  But that's the point, you can see Kevin Smith in every frame he's in saying to the audience Just go along with it, Don't think to hard just laugh.  Will Ferrell is hilarious and there are too many hollywood in-jokes to count, A lot of the gags are predictable and for every one that makes you howl there's one that makes you grimace, There's one too many fart jokes But it's a fun ride. "},{"Title":"My 62 Year Old Mother Loved IT As Much As I Did","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is extremely funny.  We laughed so hard our stomachs hurt.  I was still laughing an hour after I left the theater.  We are sad to say goodbye to a cast of characters we love so much.  They definitely are going out with a bang.  Like I said my mom laughed as hard as I did so if you can get used to the language you will be in for some ride. "}{"Title":"The BEST movie in years. Kevin Smith Delivers a hip comedy.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back I was amazed. This is Kevin Smith's best work probably since Dogma. This is now my favorite Kevin Smith movie and my favorite movie of all time now. This movie has a celebrity star cast including Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Will Ferrel, Matt Damon, Shannon Elizabeth, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, George Carlin. And much much more. This movie is full of fun. I reccomend it to any Kevin Smith fan. I was really excited to see Hooper X, Dante, Randal, Trish The Dish Jones, Holden, Alyssa, Banky, and Brodie in the movie. EVERYONE PLEASE SEE THIS MOVIE. It's a funny movie that kicks major sissy boy arse. "},{"Title":"Funniest of the 5","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All of the films have their moments.  This one is just a series of moments.  People who havent seen the other 4 movies or don't know the characters may be a little confused as to how Jay and Silent Bob know these people like Banky and Holden (Chasing Amy), but it's still funny.  This is how Smith writes, he can make smart humor that is even smarter and funnier to people on another level.  And now that he has tied up most of the loose ends, he can move on in his career.   "},{"Title":"Great but only if you know Smith's Films","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I review Jay and Silent Bob, I must warn all who want to see it, but have not seen the rest of the View Askew Movies to hit a video store and watch all of them.I went into it expecting a send off and that is exactly what I got, Kevin Smith removed alot of his trademark dialog for mindless fun, and it was great.I give it a 8 out of ten, it was great, but not as good as American Pie 2, which in my opinion is the best comedy of 2001. The cameos were great, Jason Mewes was great as well as he basically carried the film.As I said above in order to enjoy this film to its maximum effect you must watch Clerks through to Dogma to catch all the Jokes, For example My brother saw the flick as well and he hated it, except for a few scenes were catered to non fans, but the reason he hated it was that he has never heard of Clerks, Dogma or Chasing Amy.So to close, great movie! 8 out of 10, can't wait for the DVD and research before you see it! "},{"Title":"Two Reviews for Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK (*** out of **** for Kevin Smith Junkies)You'll wet your pants at the return of Dante and Randal.  Brodie will hit you like a lightning bolt, and you'll go into an overload as Holden flashes onto the screen with a hilarious send-up of Jay's entrance in CHASING AMY. For those of you who adored MALLRATS and hailed it Smith's best work, this is the movie you've waited for since '95.  JAY AND SILENT BOB is the second View Askew movie to not contain a trace of dramatic content, and to those who looked down on 'RATS, well, this one will simply please you because A, it's the Askewniverse, and B, it's got *everyone* you've missed during the years.  A nice end to the series, but one can wish for something more... along the lines of the CLERKS SELLIN' OUT coming out next year.  But until then, this will hold our cravings down.JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK (** out of **** for View Askew virgins)It's very simplistic, with no real character development save the two title stars.  They live in a world we apparently should know, but any lack of knowledge on Smith's previous works will drop you from this loop in an instant.  It's enjoyable from start to finish, but you can tell it's nothing special.JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK (My final thoughts)I enjoyed it.  Very much so, in fact.  But I can see why it got so many mixed reviews, and why many have complained that it honors Kevin Smith's fictional universe so much.  However, it should be noted that although this is not considered a sequel, it is the final chapter in a series, and should be viewed in succession to get the full effect.     "},{"Title":"Well, it's funny...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's not much more you can ask for from this movie.  There were some scenes that were gut twistingly funny.  There are some moments that don't work or drag on a little, but not very many.  I assume that if you read this comment on IMDb then you are a movie fan, so I would definitely suggest that you see it. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I dig Kevin Smith. I dig his movies. Chasing Amy and Clerks wereboth works of genius. This, however, seemed like a throwawayfilm. A fantastic journey that revealed too much about the enigmaticJay & Silent Bob (some people may have liked this). I think thatcompared to many of today's films, this one was quite good, it'sjust that it was a tall order for Kevin (hard to make it adialogue-driven movie), and I think he may have gone too far intothe world of gross-out comedy and mindless action, with somegratuitous gawk scenes. I guess the bottom line is that it just isn'tmy type of movie. If you're looking for another dialogue-drivencomedy from the master, this one won't make your day. If you'relooking to follow Jay & Silent Bob on an unorthodox adventure (tosay the least) peppered with a mindboggling number of cameos(most of them enjoyable), go for it. But for me, without the dialoguereally snapping the movie along, this one came across asmediocre. Go see it though. It DEFINITELY has its moments andSilent Bob's dialogue is definitely worth the price of admission byitself )Sincerely,MagnoliaFan(just kidding) "},{"Title":"Perhaps a little too much like voyeurism.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Heading into the theatre for JaSBSB, I was concerned. Granted, I'd driven a hundred miles to see this movie.  Granted, I'd gotten six hours of sleep instead of seven. Granted, I was broke and needed entertainment.  But throughout all this, I decided I needed to enjoy this movie. I had to. As a recent fan of Kevin Smith's work, I couldn't help it.It hurt a little.  Not a lot, but a little.The first five minutes were rapidfire plot development.  So quick in fact, that I felt like I was watching a teaser.  By the time the movie was halfway over, I was still having doubts as to whether the actual movie itself had begun.  As usual, the characters were all incredibly well written. Smith's dialogue is excellent, and he plays Mewes like a musical instrument. (Insert the expected 'flute' joke here.) The various cameos ranging from Askewiverse classics to recent crowd favorites such as Jon Stewart and Wes Craven, however, made this movie come across almost too much like a fantasy home video for Smith.Pretty much the moment the monkey was introduced, I felt like it was too much.  Too many injokes, too much self-gratification in casting and plot. I almost felt like I was watching something too personal, like I was invading Smith's privacy.  Granted, for the price of admission, I was allowed this little spot of voyeurism.  But I had hoped for maybe a little less oral sex in my humor.  It was funny about four of the twenty or so times it was used to make a joke, the other times, it seemed to come across as expected, simply because that's how Jay's mouth works.I enjoyed this movie, but left feeling a bit left out.  I hope to see Jay and Silent Bob cameos in the future, but perhaps Kevin ought to try and thank Jason Mewes for his excellent work in five Askewiverse films by writing something in a totally non-Jay style for Mewes to do.  Give him something to show his stuff. "},{"Title":"Well It finally has come.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The end of the Viewaskewniverse. I've seen all five movies now. This one in my opinion was uneven at parts. For example the Chaka Luther King stuff to me was not funny and Marshall Willenholly really wasn't that funny at the beginning either also the second half of the movie was pretty hit and miss for example the Miramax stuff was Gold but the clumsiness stuff and the Cat Fight at the end were not. I really enjoyed the beginning though and the cameos, especially Dante and Randall's. I knew everyone who was going to be in this movie but I had no idea about Judd Nelson since I heard he opted off the movie he obviously didn't and his scenes were kind of funny. Also Paul Dini is a Lot taller then I thought I have only seen him in pictures and interviews but he looked stocky in those. Overall it is definitely a must see for the fans and I will see it again but it's not the best of the bunch in my opinion because it has certain problems unlike Clerks and Amy which flow very well. This one is in tone the sequel to Mallrats and fans of that movie alone will enjoy this but this was definitely a treat for us fans it's just that it could've been trimmed a bit and where was Alyssa's other sister Heather? . I can't wait for the DVD though since I know it will be jammed packed with stuff the only problems I really had was that like I mentioned before it could've been edited a bit more. I did see a bit of change in Smith's direction though he has obviously matured over the years. I'm glad he is finally able to move on from these character and tackle new and challenging projects. I can't wait to see his next whatever it might be. "},{"Title":"Jay and Bob go out...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well.. I suppose its fitting.. and well the film does do what Kevin Smith wanted.. be a raunchy no holds barred comedy that pushes aside the more serious overtones of his previous 2 films. This time around Jay and Bob gets restrained from hanging out in front of the Quick Stop, they find out that Miramax is making a movie based on their lives.. and they didn't get paid? Then some whiny twit is making fun of them on the internet? Jay and Silent Bob DO Strike Back.. they hit the road from Leonardo, NJ to Tinsil town. Meeting all the strange characters, like the odd hitcher (George Carlin), a gang of jewel thieves (Shannon Elizabeth, Ali Larter, Eliza Dushku, Jennifer Schwalbach-Smith), an ape named Susanne, and some of the old VA stand bys.. like Brodie, Randal, Steve-Dave, Walt, Holden, Banky..All in all.. the film is just a raunchy, silly and in the end.. Kevin Smith's way of putting the talk backing p*** and moaners on trial.. It's a fitting end for Jay and Bob.. as everyone does, as Holden says at one point, kind of grow up.. That's what this film is, a purging of all the crazy stuff.. putting away Jay and Bob... adios fellas, its been a fun ride. "},{"Title":"The best farewell I have ever seen","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob bid farewell and it was excellent.  This is the best film in the entire series.  Jay and Silent Bob will be forever remembered as the stoner and a chronic smoker who came from New Jersey and left a mark on the world that will never be erased.  I like the way they incorporated all of the characters from the first four films into this movie.  I think Smith's best move was bringing in actors from some other great movies to help make this an awesome spectacle.  The best cameo in the movie was Matt Damon and Gus Van Sant and they were filming the sequel to Good Will Hunting.  I recommend this movie to anyone who has a strong stomach and a liking for sick comedy.  This is Kevin Smith's best work.  I give it a TEN out of TEN. "}{"Title":"A satisfying wrap-up to these characters","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, you either love Kevin Smith or you hate him. Don't see this movie if you have not memorized the characters and quotes from Clerks, or if you didn't appreciate the genius that is Dogma. You'll hate this movie more than the others. So go on and get on your high horse and pretend that you are above this kind of humor. Why are you even here reading this comment if you hate his movies? Hello? What kind of loser are you? AS FOR THE REST OF Y'ALL It's a must-see. Just as every Star Wars fan must see Jedi, every Jay and Silent Bob must see the epic (ok, maybe not epic) but very entertaining and mindless fun that is the end of the comic duo on the big screen. There are just so many pop culture references, it's impossible to capture them all. I love Jay and Silent Bob, but it was time to put the duo to bed, before we got tired of them. So what does Mr. Smith do? He make a grand finale with them as the main characters and pull out all the stops by putting in an incredible number of cameos. I have to say that *SPOILER ahead* Mark Hamill's character Cocknocker was absolutely bizarre and hilarious. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time..","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the sorriest excuses for a movie I have seen in years.  Purely a vanity piece by Kevin Smith.  A huge waste of money, actors and the audience's time.  What a shame the studio is pouring so much money into promotion of this movie, when Smith's earlier efforts have been much better.   We will think twice, no three times, before we darken the doorstep of another Kevin Smith production again. "},{"Title":"High Quality Unadulterated Adolescent F-Fest","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd like to find out if this movie uses the F word more than any movie ever made.  Surely some hardcore statistician out there can let us know the top 5 F-movies of all time; JSBSB could be the new number one.To this viewer, it appears that Smith exercises his increasingly impressive movie making skills in what has almost become a trademark humble and self-deprecating manner, by filling the screen with absurdly moronic idiotically juvenile content.  In other words, Perfection for what appears to me as the film's desired outcome.  What I mean is, Smith's expertise in the art and science of making a movie reaches an all time high, while he makes fun of himself (almost as much as he makes fun of Affleck) with the absurdity of the images and dialog on the screen.  You mean there's a script for this?  Absutively Posilutely Hilarious.  The movie delivers everything Smith could have possibly promised, both to the studio and to the millions of loyal, if rather demented, Smithereens.  I hereby nominate Smithereens as the official name of Kevin Smith cultists everywhere; let's hear some Smithereens theme music in Return of Jay and Silent Bob. Moreover, anyone who can package and sell The Great White Buckwheat as a 21st century star of DVD and screen has definitely blown the naysayers and MoviePoopShooters (aka AintItCoolers) to Smithereens.That said, if you go off this film with the intent of some high-brow deconstruction, I can only say one thing Make sure you pay full ticket price to exercise your manifest literary rights, and F yous up yous stupid a$$es.  Well, that's two things; so sue me.  I'd love to have the chance to countersue by having my lawyer jump up on the bench and rip a big old snoochie fart right in Judge Judy's face.As much as I enjoy Smith's work, I fear that audiences may not get enough of the inside jokes to make this movie as big of a financial success as it should be; nevertheless, as a Pay Back Movie it's clearly a 10+.  "},{"Title":"An exciting laugh fest!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I left the theater proclaiming that this was the funniest movie I've ever seen.  I laughed harder than I have in years.  Then I tried to figure out why I liked it so much and it came to me that it was because this movie is one inside joke after another.  If you're a fan of Kevin Smith's work as I am you'll greatly appreciate the hilarity of this film.  On the other hand, if you have not seen any of the other four films you may be sitting there saying, I don't get it. like the kids that were sitting next to me in the theater.  I thought to myself that todays' youth must not have a sense of humor unless you force feed it to them, but then I realized that they probably don't even know who Morris Day is, let alone have seen Kevin Smith's other work.  I highly recommend seeing Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma and then going to the movies and appreciating everything about this movie as I did! "},{"Title":"My Mouth and Lungs Hurt from laughing so hard","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great Movie!  Great finish to the View Askewniverse series.  I don't believe I've ever laughed harder at a movie in my entire life, and I've seen more than my fair share of comedies.  Anyone can enjoy this movie, but you will enjoy it a lot more if you've seen Smith's other films.  Well, i'd write more, but im gonna head back to the theater and see JSBSB again! "},{"Title":"Superb and whatnot...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I suppose that Kevin Smith's movies are not for everyone... But I'm not one of those people.  As a diehard fan of View Askew films, I obviously expected to enjoy this movie.  I now think that enjoy is not strong enough of a word. This movie rocked! I loved every minute of it.  So much was explained in this, it rounded off all the rough edges of the previous movies.  For example, we learned how Jay and Bob met... All of the actors were awesome esp. Jason Lee and Will Ferrel.  I love Ben Affleck, he was hilarious, especially finally admitting his hooker problem! Just kidding.  I definitely give this movie an A+++++ and the best part is definately the party at the end! What a great way to end an era. Just a suggestion... If you're ever in Redbank, NJ.  Check out the store! It's so cool.  You can also see where the movies were shot, like Jack's Music Store (Chasing Amy), and the Catholic Church from Dogma.  I think the address is 33 Main St.  But you'll have to check the end of one of the videos for that one. GO SEE THIS MOVIE AGAIN!!! Thanks for reading my rant. "},{"Title":"the funnyist movie of the summer","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film was good. but it wasn't as good as clerks but it was better than mall rats. i like how they brought all caracters back from all of the old movies such as clerks, dogma, mall rats, chasing amy. i also like how they brought Brody from mall rats and randall from clerks. i like these characters because they resemble me. i also like these movies because of the diretor kevin smith how he mentions some of the greatest movies of all time. such as Jaws, star war, planet of the apes, and crash of the tisens. i admire jay how his his caracter says such bizzare stuff. i think we all should see this movie because it has an all star cast. i recommend that you see this movie and if a prist will go see it then it mush be all right. "},{"Title":"If you really want to like this movie make sure you're stoned like Jay and Silent Bob.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was allright.  But I came out disappointed.  I love Kevin Smith's previous works Chasing Amy and Dogma and I got a lot of respect for his making Clerks, but this movie had no substance whatsoever.  I wasn't expecting much but I expected more than an hour and 40 minutes of dick and fart jokes and constant use of the F-Word and pathetic annoying attempts at sexually exploiting the 4 jewel thieves.  Most jokes dragged out a little too much.Don't get me wrong.  It was funny in a lot of places. I know that's not saying much considering there are movies out like American Pie 2 and Rat Race that don't require pot to be hysterical.  But I also know it looks like Kevin Smith didn't put much thought into this.I especially don't like how it happened to have a hollywood ending.  If you've seen everything else you want to see and really feel like seeing a movie then see it. "},{"Title":"Good fan film, top-notch humor, baaaad story","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If the quality of Kevin Smith's story telling could be charted on a graph, we would see two sharp inclines one from Mallrats to Chasing Amy, and one from Chasing Amy to Dogma.  Following Dogma, the graph line would take a wicked plunge and crash land well below Clerks , Mallrats, and the X axis.  The final plot on the graph is Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back.  Oh my god, is the story ever dumb.  Read the plot summary from any review and ask yourself if it sounds dumb.  Does it sound dumb?  Oh, *it is*. It is dumb, it is trite, it is downright boring at times.But Kevin Smith did not make this film to prove to the film industry that he is a serious and reckonable screenwriter, director, and film maker (which he is).  True to advance billing, the script is overflowing at both ends with inside joke after after inside joke from the previous four films.  Some of them work very well and others are so contrived, you wish to have your ears lopped off (Banky Chocolate covered pretzel?... *groan*).  The ones that work, however, more than make up for the ones that do not.  I left the theater fairly satisfied with Kevin Smith's parting shots to the NJ Pentilogy gang.The rest of the film, while virtually meaningless from a plot standpoint, is hysterical.  I embarrassed myself in the theater once or twice laughing so hard.  Again, *for the most part*, the new characters and situations work very well and serve their primary purpose to give Jay and Silent Bob a chance to shimmer moronically, like glazed poop, for 90 minutes.  In this sense, the film is an unabashed success.  (5/10)  "},{"Title":"This was one for the fans...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who has, like myself, followed Kevin Smith's films intently...this movie, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, is a must see. It starts off rehashing a bit of that original Clerks sense of humor, then throws in a heap of new concepts with quite a few follow ups on loose ends, and then finishes it all off with a cast collage that the truest of followers will enjoy. On a personal note, I found it to be interesting in how everyone has aged, changed (or not), and ties in together. I dont think any of us have laughed so hard at a movie since Little Nicky, and even at that it wasn't nearly as much. I recommmend this movie to the all fans of Kevin Smith...if you haven't seen it yet, you're stupid. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest and stupidest movies in a long time.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like to laugh see this movie. It is really stupid but i was constantly laughing the entire time. A majority of the jokes involve the word F***, oral sex, and parody. This movie will be even funnier if you have seen all of Kevin Smith's movies because this movie has some kind of relation with virtually all of his other movies, in particular Clerks and Chasing Amy although parts of Mall rats and Dogma appear here and there. This movie is better than Chasing Amy and Mall rats but i think in terms of quality of the movie Dogma and Clerks are better than this, although this is funnier than both of them. "},{"Title":"I'm gonna have to see it twice...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was laughing so hard, I missed jokes!  Granted, there are quite a few expletives coming from Jay's mouth, and what else would we expect?  But overall, the movie is hysterical, and all the View Askew family (well, almost all) is back...that's one thing, though, if you're not at least familiar with the New Jersey trilogy & Dogma, you may get lost and miss quite a few of the in-jokes that Kevin Smith throws in.  So if you want the full View Askew experience, go to your local video store, rent the other movies, and then go see Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. "},{"Title":"F*ckin' Rox (spoiler)","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is definitely the best comedy of the year. Of the whole      Jersey series, I only saw Clerks and Mallrats. Fortunately, I got to meet Kevin Smith in person at a comic book convention. He has an incredibly sublime sense of humor. This somewhat inspired me to write my own screenplay, which, although was never properly filmed, certainly captured the spirit of the series. I feel that Jay and Silent Bob is the movie that all of wish we could have wrote and directed. Kevin Smith is (expletive deleted) Cool! He should (expletive deleted) go to every (expletive deleted) person's house who (expletive deleted) posted a bad (expletive deleted) review on this web site and (expletive deleted) them up! OWWT! "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith strikes a comedic home run !!!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They say parody (or is it ridicule) are the best forms of flattery. Well Kevin Smith does both as Jay and Silent Bob go after Hollywood for taking their characters to the big screen without giving them their cut. In the process they lampoon just about every movie in the last 10 years. Kevin Smith's own movies and it's stars are the prime targets for too many laughs to count. Notable kudos to Jason Lee, and especially Matt Damon and Ben Affleck for taking so many great shots at themselves. Viewers not familiar with Kevin Smith's previous movies including the wonderful Chasing Amy, Mall Rats and Dogma should watch them then see Jay and Bob again to get even more laughs.A note about the controversy regarding too much anti-gay and sexist language and situations. Lighten up, I found neither offensive. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith does it again!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't give anything away, I'll just say this movie gives you what you expect from Kevin Smith...a funny, funny, funny movie.  Of course it's great being from Jersey and having a Familiarity with some of the locations, like the secret stash, red bank, leonardo, atlantic highlands, I still miss the US 1 Flea Market preserved forever in Mall Rats (you the Man, Kevin!). Go see it, support the man, so he'll continue making hilarious movies, and don't forget to see Fletch II next year! "},{"Title":"A Good Try","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was greatly anticipating this movie, and for good reason since this is to be the last of Kevin Smith's Jersey movies.  I felt that overall it was a highly amusing movie.  My only problem with it was that some of the references to the other Jersey movies felt a little forced at times.  But, hey an amusing Kevin Smith movie is still better than most any movie out there (To see this you don't need to look any further than Bubble Boy.) So as a loyal Kevin Smith fan I was glad I saw the movie, and I can't wait for it to come out on special edition DVD to hear the commentary, which I am sure will be hilarious (as long as Affleck is there). "},{"Title":"Thanks Kevin and the View Askewniverse","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Kevin Smith fan since Clerks, I love the last Jersey flick. Crowd reaction is fantastic; laughs from fans new to the Askewniverse and from longtime VA fans, a tribute to the talent of Kevin Smith. J&SBSB has a plot with leverage to accomadate myriad characters from the first 4 VA flix. Verbal banter sets this film apart from all the tripe of the summer; a film that portrays gen x as intelligent and erudite, even if we are addicted to movies. SPOILERSThe premiere scene is classic Kevin. Mark Hamill finally says what we've so longed for. Stay until the end of the credits for God's sake.  I can't wait to see what Kevin has in store for his fans next; I miss the Askew "},{"Title":"Funniest Smith Flick yet... next to Mallrats.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   For those of you like myself, who enjoy watching Kevin Smith's films and laughing rather than taking notes on how to bash his directing techniques, this movie is for you! Kevin has one of the best heads for humorous dialogue than just about anyone in the business and he uses this to his advantage in this his fifth feature film to date. Using characters that we have already grown to know and love, Kevin has the advantage of concentrating solely on the laugh count in this flick and that completely paid off. I was almost on the floor rolling and I damn near p****d myself! I'm sure the doobie-snacks helped (thanks for the tip Phat-buds!), still seeing all the characters from the other films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. Even those guys from that movie with Mork from Ork...) was not only refreshing but added to the laughs.Those of you who have had the destinct pleasure of witnessing the Clerks animated series (yes, I'm talking to BOTH of you) will notice the similarities and catch a couple of inside jokes. Enough with the ranting already, I'm just gonna tell you to go and see the movie because it's funny. Sure it's crude and they drop F bombs like NFL players drop crack rocks, but hey... that's why we like it.Those of you who are way to deep into View Askiew, keep your eyes open for the little things like Buddy Jesus and Mooby, but there are others as well.Overall, a laugh riot. Thank you Kevin, for the great script that reminded me of the animated series (minus the last minute Korean animation). Thank you Jason's (Mewes and Lee) for reminding me why I loved Mallrats so much and making it worth the... well, I didn't pay to get in, so... for making it worth the price of concessions, video games and well worth the 2 hours that I had to p** but couldn't because I didn't want to miss any of it (the movie...). Oh, and Jay, thanks for the whole new use for rolling papers.  "},{"Title":"The best comedy of the summer!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this on friday and it was worth all the hell i had trying to sneak in to it(I'm only 14). First of all is Jason Mewes wasnt in it as Jay this movie would have sucked. He  and Kevin Smith were perfect together. And i think the cameo galour was great also, kinda reminded me of SCR3AM in which Jay and Silent Bob were also in. Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek were great, Ben Afleck and Matt Damon were cool, Carrie Fisher and Sean William Scott were super cool, Wes Craven was slammin, Joey Lauren Adams who is usually hot looked kinda fat and like Stiflers mom, and the lovely Shannen Doherty was a god and made the movie for me, i wish i could have seen more of her. The main players were were good to (Jewel Theives). All in All go see this funny movie. "},{"Title":"It's time to put this series to rest.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To my great disappointment, this film fell far short of what I had hoped for.  While I can see glimpses of an imaginative plot line, so much of this film fell into cliches- and didn't portray them well enough to really pass muster as a credible parody.  The dialogue driven model we come to expect from a Kevin Smith film is pushed aside in favor of sight gags and bodily humor jokes.  One has to expect some of this given the title characters, but are there any intelligent or well developed characters in this film? Additionally, the running preoccupation with gay humor is not funny, nor is it clear that we are supposed to think less of these characters for their remarks.  The large number of cameos and a yearning for closure make this worth watching at some point, but it's sad to see NJ's best come to such an unfitting end. "}{"Title":"This movie is the funniest I have ever seen....end of story!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I have ever seen I swear to all the is Holy. The references to Smith's other movies are comically combined with this film perfectly. This is the funniest movie. It has a great cast one of which includes the nearly forgotten Mark Hamill! And other greats such as Jason Biggs, and his steamy bedroom scene partner! Van der Beek, Chris Rock, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon and of course the stars of the film! JAY AND SILENT BOB!( Jason and Kevin ). Some of the funniest material is presented in this movie! Fart jokes have a new perspective for me now thanks to this movie. Enjoy and bewary! Every second your eyes travel off screen you'll miss something funny as all hell! "},{"Title":"Sadly we bid farewell to Jay and Silent Bob","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of all the movies that have been released this fairly disappointing summer season, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back has got to be the brightest point.  This comic duo take their show on the road to stop the making of Bluntman and Chronic (their comic book alter-egos) and along the way become involved in everything from jewel heists to monkey napping.  Anyone who has seen any of the other four movies in this trilogy will be in with the one liners and the inside jokes that run rampant throughout.  How many noticed the small dashboard buddy christ in the nun's car?If you have to watch another movie this boring summer season make it Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  Sadly we must bid farewell to Jay and his heterosexual soul mate Silent Bob.  But at least they go out with all the fan fare that these guys deserve.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great 'fanboy' movie","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   If you're a Kevin Smith fan you will love this movie. Anyone who hasn't seen the other Jersey movies will be confused about some of the stuff people are laughing at. But, even if you haven't seen KS's other movies there is still a lot that is very funny the Scooby-Doo part if hilarious.A must see for KS fans (9/10) "},{"Title":"it's just what i expected","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't have a lot to say about because really i don't what to say except that it was an absolutely hilarious film.  It had everything that you could possibly want in a Jay and Bob film and a few things you'd never expect.  This one is the funniest of the five films, and thats all i have to say. "},{"Title":"This May be the Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now, I've loved every Kevin Smith movie since Clerks, and even though I think one or two of his previous works may be better as far as story and heart felt emotion and all that, this is by far his funniest movie to date, and it may just be the funniest movie that this humble reviewer has ever seen.  It's just so random.  From encounters with Scooby Doo, to Mark Hamill, to Missy Chrissy Sissy and Justice the Jewel thieves.  A good number of the characters from Smith's other movies make appearances in this one in one capacity or another.  This movie actually serves on some capacity as a means to tie all of those movies together as well as a damned funny movie in it's own right.  God the audience in the theater I was in stood up and applauded twice before the movie was even finished.  Will this movie win an Oscar?  Probably not.  Will you laugh till lungs, heart and butt hurt?  More than likely yes. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious for fans, very amusing for general audiences","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      Kevin Smith has long since been deemed friend of those of us who spew pop culture allusions, pose pop culture questions, etc. but also have a great deal of knowledge. Behind the various body jokes, there is something beneath this film's cover that appeals to people. Jay and Silent Bob are back, but this time they are different too. (Possible spoilers) I mean, Silent Bob actually snaps and yells at Jay. In a world where we all observe our own friends make stupid choices, this was very real, and yet hilarious at the same time. It seems this time that, while outwardly mocking Hollywood and Hollywood audiences, we have a statement on limits expressed by this film. (Or I could be interpretting it completely wrong, and Kevin Smith will mock me , but who knows.)     Anyway, as the user comment at the top says, this film is absolutely hilarious if you're familiar at all with Smith's works. Its a cameo fest of old familiar faces and some more recent ones. The soundtrack is even appropriately new and old, equally quirky. This film, however, is determined to create new fans, showing itself as a testament to Smith's ability to use crude humor and pop culture to make everything too funny.    The movie appealed to me in a way I did not expect it too, even coming off as sickly romantic at times, a la Buffalo 66 (but in a different way) or, more true to life Free Enterprise. However, Kevin Smith has found one thing that Free Enterprise (even with Shatner) has yet to find, a rabid fanbase and the ability to generate new fans constantly with films such as Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Snoogans and a rating of 10 all around.  "},{"Title":"Liked it, Smith's best since Mallrats","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After loving Clerks and Mallrats, I considered my self a Kevin Smith fan, and was able to forgive him for Chasing Amy, which I found pretty awful.  I enjoyed Dogma, but upon watching it a second time, I realized that I only enjoyed Jay & Silent Bob's presence; the story itself did absolutely nothing for me.So I am happy to report that Smith is back on the right track with Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back.  Give the people what they want, after all!  He has pretty much dispensed with the intelligent nature of the other films, and cut right to the jokes.  For pure entertainment value, it really works.  I find it funny practically every time Jay opens his mouth, so since Jay was the star here, it was hard to go wrong.  Almost every character from Smith's previous four movies returns, with the notable exceptions of Jeremy London and Claire Forlani.  If you haven't seen (or enjoyed) Smith's other films, you likely won't get much out of this one, however.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect end to the series","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was Smith's last hurrah for Jay and Bob, he's off to do new things that, I suspect, will be a bit  more mature.  But this movie was a perfect ending for the series - I only missed the fact that there  was no Bethany to call back to Dogma (yes, I know that's a bone of contention, but it would have  been nice).  This movie has no plot, it's silly, it's stupid.  And it's fun. "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I tend to not label movies as simply awful. I try and look for some kind of quality or something that's worthy of, well, anything. However, this simple piece of trash is not worth your time, money or use of brain cells. It's much like Austin Powers 2 Spy that Shagged Me. Another movie that relies entirely on elementary, cheap potty jokes. Jay and Bob does all that, as well as fill in the abhorrent dialogue with f&@!-f@^@!-FW*W*! every chance they get. It got to the point where I couldn't even follow where a scene was going because I was busy being hit with every obsenity ten times in the space of five seconds. Come on, people, that's not quality film. That's trash. OK? And I'm shocked George Carlin lent his face to this, and even more so Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill. Others had cameos from previous Smith films, but I noticed the great Linda Fiorentino did not, no doubt wanting nothing to do with this filth.The film was filled annoyingly with pop culture references and oh, I get it, they're making fun of themselves jokes. COme on, this doesn't make me laugh. You gotta come up with something a little more inventive and witty to make me even remotely laugh. Shannon Elizabeth dancing crazy in glasses and falling down does not make me laugh, because I'm not five years old. Ok? But it appears that's the level of humor the cast and crew share who made this absolutely, simple awful film. You know what's even more sad?? There are hundreds, no, thousands of scripts locked in volts with some intelligence that will never see the light of celluloid. And something like this gets made and sells out seats everywhere. Sad. Just plain SAD. "},{"Title":"View Askew Triangle Show!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is it gang!  Those devotees of Kevin Smith's skewed vision of the world have gotten their reward - Smith's end of term wrap party burlesque - JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK!  A filthy, foul, lewd, idiotic, amoral, (and yes) HILARIOUS finale to his NJ films.Don't mistake this film for anything in the vein of CLERKS, MALLRATS, CHASING AMY or DOGMA.  This isn't so much an attempt at film making as Smith's backroom Triangle Show celebrating the aforementioned flicks and giving those who've turned his Red Bank ramblings into an empire a summer blockbuster that they can really get into.What's that you say?  You've never seen CLERKS?  Or CHASING AMY?  Or DOGMA?  (You're forgiven for not seeing MALLRATS, but...)  Then cross this film off your list!  You'll be wasting your cash.  This film is for us - the denizens of the View Askew Universe!!!  Smith Rules! "}{"Title":"You People May Be Missing The Point","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I may be wrong, but I don't think so.  Kevin has said that (Aside from Clerks; The Animated Movie..  a self indulgence at being miffed about the series, out on DVD, being canceled after airing only two of six episodes.) this will be the absolute last Jersey picture.  People obviously keep demanding more of these characters and while they may be dear to his heart, and pocketbook, he probably wants to move on.  Of all the View Askew productions so far, this is by far the funniest.  The smart thing Kevin did though, was to shove so much of Jay and Bob down our throats in this latest installment, that you may never want to see them in anything else again.  I know I don't (Except for the animated movie).  There are almost as many cleche's and movie rip offs as there are utterances of the word F**k.  Some of the best are The Fugitive, Plannet of the Apes, and The Phantom Menace.  And speaking of Star Wars, look out for not only Mark Hammil, but Carrie Fisher.  Judd Nelson is unrecognizable.  Chris Rock is great as Shaka Luther King.  But people go to see Smith movies to see the regulars, and they are all there too...  Walt and Steve-Dave, Himself and Mewes, Scott Mosier, Ben, Jason Lee (Brodie and Banky are two of my favorite characters of all time), and Matt, Brian O'Halloran, and the scene stealing Jeff Anderson.  If you are a Kevin Smith fan, you will love this movie.  If you have had little or no exposure to this corner of the world, either rent the other Smith movies first, or stay away.  There is too much Prequal tie in for the casual observer.  Non Smith fans won't get it.  So become a  Smith fan and then go see it.  (Dogma is non-essential, but a funny movie none the less.)  "},{"Title":"despite what you think...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just wanted to add, Even though I've only seen Dogma, and apparently didn't get all the references, I thought this movie was hilarious! I know what you're thinking, I'll bet you're just a simple idiot who wants to hear f-words.  Well, let me just tell you...you're probably right!  Long live Jay and Silent Bob! But I'm seriously, this was one of those movies that left me with that tingly feeling, the one that says I'm actually cool and smart at the same time! "},{"Title":"Come and get me, Jay and S.B., you guys SUCK!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Actually, I thought this film was hysterical, albeit pretty self-serving... For Smith fans and X-generation movie buffs in general, this movie was entertaining all the way through... However it was marginally less satisfying for the audience of people who couldn't follow the references and allusions littering the piece. "},{"Title":"Smith at his best","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of Kevin Smith's movies, and really don't see what the big deal is about them. I've enjoyed all of his films, but none of them blew me away. Then came Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and I'd have to say that Smith's made not only his best movie yet, but also one of the funniest movies I've seen in a looong time. I rarely laugh out loud at a movie, particularly at the theater, but this movie had me laughing out loud from beginning to end. My only complaint about the movie is that it ended too soon. "},{"Title":"J&SBSB is a F*&^%in' Hysterical Flick","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cult icon writer/director/actor Kevin Smith is at the end of his infamous (to those who know him)  Jersey Chronicles. He burst onto the indie film scene with the itsy-bitsy budgeted, big splash reaction anticlimax film Clerks. He went on to make a few more day in the life of your average-American- population-is-like-this- lackluster person films that, each involved strong oddly likable average characters doing oddly enjoyable average things. They are a collection of hip quazi-Seinfeldesque films geared towards the 18 to 25 year olds if you will. Smith had the comic book store society, lots-o-pot, alluring yet unobtainable chick babes, and these brilliantly profane verbal ballets by a particularly funny and perverse stoner-dude named Jay (Jason Mewes). Jay's a bellow the radar type who always manages to offend or spew words that continually back up the assumption of his general uselessness to society&#133;other than being a supplier of a well-needed bag of blunts (Maryjane-joints-doobies-dimebag) to the locals of course.With J&SBSB you get the feeling Smith sat at his desk, or commode, and thought I'm gonna make this final hurrah as out there as possible, throw in every gag I can think of, stay true to my pop culture references and cynicisms and get some big stars, whom I have incriminating pictures of, to rag on themselves, in the funniest ways imaginable...He's called in a troughful of these stars in delectable cameos. Including a few household names, like the mega-edible (in a toasted blueberry muffin with full fat butter dripping down the edges way), Ben Affleck and Ivy League looking cutey (aka Boston Choppers), Matt Damon, he's enlisted the actor forever linked to fornication with a pie, Jason Biggs, called on a big Blunt smit- Mr. Will Farrell - who shows up to steal scenes away from his fellow actors, and parlayed that just -has-to-glance-your -way-and-you-laugh chocolate delicacy Chris Rock. Smith's also brought back a bevy of characters his past audience will cheer for as they prance across the frames too like; charming Jason Lee and annoying voiced Joey Lauren Adams, and the original pot comic George Carlin in a brief but funny appearance.Story goes Hollywood is making a movie about Bluntman & Chronic, a comic book based on New Jerseyians Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob's (Kevin Smith) life as stoners turned action heroes. Jay and Silent Bob had no idea. Not to mention, what about a little dough to parade one's life? That's not what really upsets them though. They're all worked up into a revengeful tizzy because the Internet buzz that developed around the soon-to-be-made movie is all about what losers the real Jay and Silent Bob are. They're being called names, and that is just unacceptable dude! And as boys will be boys the answer is simple to Jay; they've got to stop the film from being made, that's the only way to end the gossip and save their sterling reputations. Simple enough...so the cashless, clueless palookas hit the road, off to California to battle the studio.Thumbing across the states, their road trip is the body of the film. Jay and Silent Bob encounter all sorts of wacky people, and some that border on hallucinogenic. They burn a few blunts with Scooby Doo and the gang. Meet up with a gang of gals ala an every guy's fantasy sequence who turn out to be less then what the boys had expected. This gets the boys involved with the law, a secret organization, and ads an Orangutan to their posse. Which sets the law on their trail, well, a dimwitted wildlife ranger (Will Farrell) a few plays on some famous films like the original Planet of the Apes, The Fugitive, Star Wars- including a bit part by Luke Skywalker himself, and bingo you've got the plot and about 5000 laughs a minute.Being versed in Smith's past works and in on the joke here, I say J&SBSB is a f*&^%in' hysterical flick! Smith's managed to spoof himself and Hollywood in so many ways, you may have to see it twice to truly enjoy and savor every oozing juvenile word. Sure, some people are going to be offended&#133;There's already hoopla boiling around the opening from GLAAD about the bombardment of gay jokes that run through out the film. Jay and Silent Bob, have always been an ambiguously gay duo no? And it is done in a what an idiot these guys are way. To me, Smith seems to be making fun of people that homophobic, and ignorant, more than glorifying them.Smith can handle the latest wave of large wave mayhem surfing, he's probably sitting back and drinking in that cool refreshing controversy tea his so famous for. Controversy you say? You may recall his last film noir Dogma the religious spoof received a verbal lashing from the Catholic Church folks. He was labeled a heathen working for Lucifer or some such nonsense. Did they see the movie was a thought that sprang into this God-fearing reviewer's mind instantly...Dogma wasn't that great and certainly wasn't going to start springing up cults of anti-Catholics across the continental divide. Though Smith will have to 'splain himself to the almighty later for the Alana Morrissey casting&#133;J&SBSB is not an academy award-winning venture; don't think Smith intended it to be. The film work looks like a high school student's dad gave him a movie making kit for graduation. But, it's still very funny. Yes, those familiar with Smith's prior works are the targeted audience and will laugh harder since he's made a celluloid stew of in-the-know references, certainly that was his intention.J&SBSB is juvenile, and be warned, often crude. It would be a big mistake to take your youngins'. And, I triple double warn you if you're a PBS subscribing suburbanite who's only joy in life is getting in the shortest teller line at your bank's branch or the New York Times Crossword puzzle gets you sexually stimulated- you should skip this. The rest of you be there opening night.Snack Recommendation Mooby's Brand Breakfast Sandwiches "},{"Title":"A good end to the Askewniverse","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview of this movie a week before it's national release.  So I was in a packed theater filled with other people who have loved Kevin Smith's movies from the beginning.  I'm really GLAAD that I saw it in this fashion.  It was really a great way to say goodbye to these characters that have been with us for going on eight years now.That's not to say that it would have been bad under other circumstances.  It's just that I had recently seen Tim Burton's Planet of the Apes and I was the only one laughing when Heston's character said, Damn them all to hell.  So it was very refreshing to laugh along with a theater full of people when some one asked Dante, Are you even supposed to be here today?As I continue on, it's important to remember that I'm a big fan of Kevin Smith's work (I even thought the Clerks cartoon was great).  But I really see this movie as a way of him getting all this out of his system so that he doesn't have to make these movies anymore.  He'll now be able to make, let's be totally honest here, REAL movies.  I always thought that he could have a good directing career ahead of him if he could move on.It's like when you write a really nasty letter to some one, but don't mail it.  You just want to say it so that it doesn't stay bottled up and manifest itself somewhere else down the line.  Thankfully, for us, Kevin Smith did mail this one.  Good night sweet princes of mirth, Jay & Silent Bob.  We'll all miss you.  (Oh wait, I forgot about my DVDs...Snoogans!) "},{"Title":"we all know this rocks","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just came back from the movies and I never had so much fun in my life now it was not many people at the movie with me some went to go see ghost of mars but it is they lost I don't have give the movie away I know all of seen it but the two best parts of the movie was the star wars fight and jay and the monkey I be the frist on to get the DVD I know it going to have a lot of stuff on it But the time is not the best band the chili peppers are. Peace out. "},{"Title":"One for the fans...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the 320 showing of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back at my local theatre with a few friends and proceeded to laugh my ass off for the entire 144 minutes that it lasted.  Thank God for Kevin Smith's ability to take trash humor and make it that much trashier - and that much more humorous - for without it, this summer's crop of comedy's would have been led by the uneven American Pie 2.  At it's heart, though, this one is intended for the fans of the View Askewniverse, for those who laughed as hard at Jay and Bob.. as they did at Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.  There are those who will say that Kevin jumped on the trash comedy bandwagon, and they would have a valid point, but after Dogma, I think he earned the right to make a more lighthearted venture.  So to his detractors, lighten up (and this means you, GLAAD); and from his fans, thank you so much, Kevin.... "},{"Title":"The Greatest movie i've ever seen","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had been waiting for this movie ever since around January and i was always following up on it on the internet. Now today when it finally came out I was just shocked at how wonderful it was. Most of all I always had a smile on my face and laughing at just about every joke in the movie. Now I guess we'll know Kevin Smith to make a whole new line of movies, but I dont know if any of them will top the first 5 or even this. Im telling you to see this!!My friend even laughed even though he hadnt seen the first 4. If your an original fan like me then you'll be soaking in every second of this awesome flick ;P "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie at a sneak preview last Saturday and I must say this is Kevin Smith's finest writing to date.  I could not stop laughing, the opening scene is the greatest!  If you liked Mallrats you will LOVE this movie, its more along the lines of Mallrats as it is a pure comedy, with no message (Dogma/Chasing Amy).  Its a laugh every minute with some great cameos. Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek, and Will Ferell are especially funny. Kevin Smith is a genius at writing dialogue driven comedy, can't wait for Fletch!   "}{"Title":"Funniest film EVER!!!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far on of the funniest films I have ever had the pleasure of watching.First off if you haven't seen any or all of Kevin Smith's films, get out of line, drive to the rental store (avoid the RTS Video next to the Quick Stop), and pick up Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma. Watch them first. Then go to J&SB Strike Back. You will enjoy the picture much more that way. You will not get many of the gags if you don't.*Spoilers randomly contained from here on*First off the opening was a riot. Now we all know why Jay curses all the time. Great to see all the characters from the previous films show up in this film. We get to see Brody and Banky (Lee), Holden and Affleck as himself, Matt Damon as himself. We see Mark Hamil as the Bluntman and Chronic bad guy, Carrie Fisher as a nun, Carlin as a hitchhiker and more!The Scooby-Doo scene was one of the funniest captured on film!Plenty of outrageous parodies inside the film (Scream (with Wes Craven cameo), Planet of the Apes (better than the new one in theaters), and Good Will Hunting. Also the big movie scene pays homage to the Star Wars films and the old Batman TV series. I was surprised they didn't get Adam West to make a cameo.This movie does a great job of making fun of Hollywood in this film.The movie subplot is ok, but it does a good job serving its purpose.Now what are all you Kevin Smith fans doing reading this review? Get you butt to the theater nooch! I give this film a 10/10!Snoogins!  "},{"Title":"This was hysterical!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was funny as hell! I laughed the whole movie. Jay and Silent Bob in a whole movie wasn't me first thought for a good movie, but I was wrong. Jay says f*** every sentence, literally. Now, for the record, I don't like this movie just because the word f*** is said well over 500 times, once again, literally, but I like it because the word f*** is used right, and yes, it was over used, but it was still funny.The movie parodies, one liners, situations, inside jokes, and nonstop profanity were all very funny in this movie. Everybody from Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy were in this as comeos (they did play there characters from there prior movies, though). Also, Silent Bob was hilarious! The Faces that he made, and when he yelled at Jay were just funny. This is really only for people who do not mind almost 2 hrs. of the word f*** , vulgar jokes, movie parodies, farting, fighting, weed, orangutan theft (named Suzan), road movies, jewel thieves, Scooby Doo, gun fights, misunderstandings (LOTS of those) and pointless beatings (watch the end, it's one of the funniest scenes). Also, I implore any fan of Kevin Smith to go see this, because it is really f***ing funny! 9/10  "},{"Title":"Too Fat and Happy","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Slowly inching towards something close to cinematic maturity with Chasing Amy and Dogma, Kevin Smith seems to have gotten frustrated and given up, resulting in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, a wobbly, disappointing entry into Smith's filmography that plays to all of his weaknesses, and ignores the few strengths he ever had as a filmmaker.  Glutted on a budget of ten million dollars and a thick rolodex of Hollywood friends, the movie adopts the uneven form of the Road Movie early on, and does its damndest to stuff as many pop culture references as it can (a large majority of which revolve around Smith's own pop culture creation, the `View Askewniverse') into its hundred minute running time.  This would be fine if the movie could somehow find a balance between a coherent narrative and the rapid-fire string of gags, but it never does, and the smirking inanity that Kevin Smith has always prided himself in finally begins to seem gratuitous.  As the titular duo, Jason Mewes and writer-director Smith's journey from Red Bank, New Jersey to Hollywood, California (on a mission to stop the production of a Miramax movie about characters that are based on their own pot-smoking existence) often seems like what it very well may be  the most irresponsible possible edit of itself.  Although it contains a bear's share of rewarding sequences for Smith's die-hard fan base, subplots and secondary characters are either given way too much screen time or not enough, with an almost tactical emphasis placed on what's most unimportant.  Many may be quick to forgive the basic fundamental mistakes Kevin Smith has made here in exchange for a few cheap laughs, but I believe that any movie that wastes the presence of both George Carlin *and* a reasonably well-trained orangutan is simply unforgivable. "},{"Title":"Awesome! Best Kevin Smith movie yet!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved Clerks and Mallrats but thought Chasing Amy and Dogma sucked. This is the best of the bunch. Great jokes, great cameos, everything was just hilarious.This has to be the funniest movie I can think of. Damn it's just that good. "},{"Title":"What you've waited for all summer!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There weren't any movies I wanted to see this summer, so I waited to see this one. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was definitely well worh the wait and one hell of a cure for the summertime movie blues.Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back tells the story of Jay and Silent Bob (of course), as they try to derail a proposed movie of their comic book alter-egos Bluntman and Chronic. On the way to Hollywood, they meet up with a lot of far-out and crazy characters (catch the cameos, if your not too busy laughing). View Askew fans will have plenty to look forward to, as almost every character and reference from previous films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma) make appearances here (37?). For all other casual moviegoers, some humor may be lost, but you'll still get a kick out of the film. "},{"Title":"Snootch to the best kevin smith movie ever nootch","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I knew this would be funny--but not like this. I honestly have never laughed harder in my entire life--this may be the funniest movie i've ever seen, maybe not the strongest plot ever, but how often do comedies really have a really really strong plot??? Thank You Kevin Smith---you made the movie you wanted to make, and damn was it great.  An experience I wont soon forget.  Not to mention it was frigging pouring outside and we almost died going home, so really... "},{"Title":"WAY more than I expected","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got to view this movie tonight and I can honestly say that I was not expecting much from it, especially after I saw Kevin Smith on Leno last night talking about how after his wife read the script that she thought it was aiming for the 12-year-old boy crowd.  I figured that since I had seen the other four in the trilogy, I may as well see this one in theaters also.  I'm very glad that I did. I can honestly say that I was never really won over by any of the previous movies in this series, but this one had me from the opening credits (or actually credit...the movie just kinda jumped right in without giving much information about cast, crew, etc).  While the movie had me hooked, I was surprised by how many people kept popping up in this movie.  Ben Affleck, James Van Der Beek, Ali Larter, Mark Hamill (okay, if you are even a part time fan of the Star Wars saga, the ticket price is worth just his part to see all the Star Wars references), Seann William Scott, Jason Biggs, Judd Nelson...the list goes on and on. I guess I'm talking more to the people who are not big fans of Kevin Smith's prior works (I know that anyone who is a huge follower of his work will be among the first people in line), when I say check it out. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith goes Pop...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After eagerly anticipating this film, i was left very disappointed.  As a long time Kev fan, i have subjected myself to repeated viewings of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma.  I was enthralled with the witty dialogue mixed in with all typed of humor.  However, this film is NOTHING like any of the previous films.  The witty dialogue is cast aside in favor of constant profanity.  Kevin Smith seems to be reaching out to a whole new audience w/ this film, ignoring his underground fan base and attempting to go mainstream.  Why else would you put 4 of the most beautiful women in showbiz (4 of the worst actresses i might add), 3 of the most popular male actors and countless other people who appeal to a demographic of young teenagers? This films target audience is no doubt the teen market, who craves for attractive stars, constant potty humor, drug and sex refferences galore and bad acting.  I am completly disappointed in this film.  The only highpoints came with the breif cameos of the other major characters from his previous films.  Maybe this film will find its audience quite well, but one thing it will lose is the fans who supported Kevin from the begining. "},{"Title":"Brilliant yet again! *Spoilers*","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I have been a devote fan ever since I saw my first Kevin Smith movie.  I thought the acting, writing, and directing are superb.  One of the best films this year.  You must go and see this.  But I warn you, it is not for all ages.  If you are put of by cussing and rude remarks, please don't go see this movie, and come out hating the cast and crew.  It's too good a movie to do that.  There have been quite a few films recently that have tried to make fun of or rip off other movies, but not one has done it as well.  I never stopped laughing.  Yet again, I loved Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, and the many others that have made all of his movies so memorable.  And I enjoyed the newbies as well.  A fabulously written script.  Terrific acting.  If you have seen ANY of Kevin Smith's earlier films, you MUST see this, and if you are a newbie yourself, you will love it.  I hope you enjoy it as much as I do.  Have fun.  "},{"Title":"Does a mall eatery constitute as part of the food court?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hmmm, being a huge Kevin Smith fan, I was (for once) disappointed with this dull and lifeless entry. Sure, Smith is a great mugger (gotta love those facial expressions), but this turned into a live action cartoon, and not a very funny one at that. The film derives most of its humor from the stars poking fun at themselves. There are barbs at Phantoms, Legend of Bagger Vance, and Armageddon, but none this really hits the bullseye. It's all very scattershot. The humor is much like that of Mallrats' (which, slap me, I liked a LOT more), but most of the time it is too self referential. There are some clever barbs at Hollywood and Mirimax, but c'mon, was the View Askewniverse ever about satirizing celebrities? Put it like this, Jay and Bob doesn't do to Hollywood what Dogma did to the Catholic church. On the bright side, there are many funny cameos, but they are the plot's only driving force.I give this a 5. "}{"Title":"You have to love movies to like this movie","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Luckily, I loved movies.  This movies is great. I mean wonderful excellent and great. But you might not think its funny. I live for movies. Be it action, comedy, romantic, Science fiction or even art flicks, I can't get enough of them. And this movie incorporates a lot of the conventions of all of them. It also incorporates a lot of movies. I mean a lot. To like this movie you have to be fairly familiar with the following, Star Wars and its sequels, the other Jay and Bob movies, the entire work of Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, Purple Rain (A must) Seen Top Secret with Val Kilmer and thought the bad movie joke was hilarious (I did), know about how Kevin Smith hates Magnolia, Think fart jokes are funny and know what the directors of some of your favorite films look like (Like Nightmare on Elm Street and Good Will Hunting). But I'm sure if you are reading my review you know all this and more and will enjoy it.This movie is great. I mean for movie geeks like myself, but if you can't laugh at yourself and trust me if you are reading this review you need to be able to take a jab at your ego to like this movie, or take a few good natured insult or are just to stuck up, this movie is not for you. I have so far given all of Mr. Smith's 10 and this one is no exception. Except for the scene with Jason Lee as Brodie and a few fart jokes over the line, this is a great movie.  and for the record my rating of Mr. Smith movies goes as such 1. Chasing Amy 2. Clerks 3.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back 4. Dogma 5. MallratsOn a side I'd like to say It was nice to see Morris Day and the Time get the respect they deserve. Oh we oh we ohNot high art but definitely High art ( I am as ashamed of the pun as you are) 10/10God speed you Jay and Silent Bob, we hardly knew ye. "},{"Title":" I was ashamed of myself for laughing -- 14 yr. old humor rated R","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My family has seen all of Kevin's movies. This was no Chasing Amy or Dogma. This movie's problem was that it was centered around Jay and Silent Bob. As a little sidebar they were fine -- but for a whole movie! The person who commented that Jason Mewes was a great actor has obviously never met Jason -- he is Jay. I think Kevin is a very good writer/director, but I think he will be even better if he 1) cuts out the infantile sexual and scatological humor and 2) hires a good film editor instead of doing the editing with Scott Mosier. I thought Chasing Amy and Dogma had so much to say as well as being good entertainment. Let's hope now that God has closed the book on Jay and Silent Bob that Kevin Smith's next movie will be as powerful as Dogma and make this 54 year old mother of two teenagers sit in the Eatontown Cinema and laugh and cry like a baby. "},{"Title":"J&SBSB is an excellent movie, (Probably one of their best) but I don't feel that it was a good way to close out the series.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING VERY MINOR SPOILER AHEAD.Even though I rated J&SBSB a 9/10, (And I do feel that it deserves it) I almost feel as if it's a throwback from what we've come to expect from View Askew and Kevin Smith. Don't get me wrong - J&SBSB is an excellent movie, (Probably one of their best) but I don't feel that it was a good way to close out the series. This is the last movie View Askew is doing with Jay and Silent Bob.The thing about this movie is the fact that unless you've seen every other VA movie, you won't get any of the in-jokes, and there are a lot of in-jokes. For instance, there is one scene where Brodie asks Jay and Silent Bob if they'd like a chocolate covered pretzel. I was laughing my head off, realising the in-joke from Mallrats, but my friend (Who hadn't seen any previous VA flicks) didn't get the joke.Basically, if you haven't seen Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma, then I reccomend you see the four of them before seeing J&SBSB, but make sure you see J&SBSB.Other than that, the movie is actually very well crafted. It never gets boring, has a laugh around every corner, and always keeps you in suspense for what's going to happen next. There is one thing missing from J&SBSB though, and that is the conversations. Nowhere in this movie will you find the insane debates about insane subjects we've seen in Clerks or Dogma. (Even Mallrats had one) I guess Kevin Smith left that out to help the movie flow better for Newbies, but I think it would have been better with something in there. (For instance, a discussion on idiocy with Brodie - that would've been fun)There are lots of funny cameos in the movie that you wouldn't expect. People like Carrie Fisher, George Carlin, Mark Hamill, James Van Der Beek, Jason Biggs, the list goes on. Some of them are quick so make sure you catch them all, and remember to stay after the credits for a 5 second shot of - well, you'll see.I reccomend this movie to VA Newbies, on the condition that you've seen at least one of the movies or have a friend with you. But for VA fans, that reccomendation becomes a full fledged scream. SEE THIS MOVIE!!! Kudos to Kevin Smith for pulling off such a great job, but next time he should work on including some more of the classic View Askew formula. After all, a bigger budget doesn't mean less work. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith does it again!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith is by far my favorite Writer/Director/Actor, Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back wraps up the Askewniverse movies wonderfully. For huge Kevin Smith fans all the references and cameos are well worth the $7.50 to see Dante and Randall, and also to hear that many cusswords on a big screen. "},{"Title":"Farewell, Jay and Silent Bob. You will be missed.(sniff)","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film brought an emotional tear to my eye, besides the tears of laughter because I knew this would be the last entry of The New Jersey Chronicles. But it went out with a bang with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.The masters of hanging out at the Quick Stop are on a mission to stop the Bluntman and Chronic movie from being made because they're gettin' no phat cash for it. Along the way the meet new and old friends.Mewes and Smith are f***in' hilarious as usual. Affleck, Lee, Hamill, Elizabeth, and Ferrel were awesome too. Characters from Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. They're all here.In the tradition of classic road films like Beavis and Butt-Head Do America, don't miss Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a big fan of kevin smith, you could actually say im a fanatic. When i heard that Jay and silent Bob strike back was coming out i was skeptical at first becuase i thought since jay and silent bob are usually on the sidelines in clerks, mallrats ,chasing amy, and dogma, they wouldn't be able to hold the whole movie and the joke might have got old. But i must tell you this movie is hilarious i simply couldn't stop laughin, the jokes never got old, although part of the movie are inside jokes my friends still laughed at em,the character were funny as hell i was so delighted that this movie had good writing and was funny. Kevin smith is a comic genius and i hope to see more of his movies in the future, although this kind of completes the set of the Jay and Silent Bob movies, it was a good last picture of the dynamic duo. Do yourself a favor and see this movie you'll thank me later. Snoogins.  "},{"Title":"A movie for Kevin Smith fans only.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back at best is the humorous conclusion to a series of films written and directed by New Jersey native Kevin Smith.  At worst, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a cameo-intensive, self-indulgent film filled ENTIRELY of off-color sexual humor and inside jokes that tie in with Smith's other movies (including Good Will Hunting and Scream 3).  So which is it?  Well, it really depends on how big a fan of Smith you are.  Now, I've seen all the other films Smith has written/directed, and even regularly buy the excellent comics Smith writes.  I also own DVD editions of his previous films.  I think that makes me a pretty loyal fan.  This film really caters to people like me, who love Smith's work.  Unfortunately, that's pretty much all it does.  Without the constant cameos (and I do mean CONSTANT) and inside jokes the movie would be about 10 minutes long.  Imagine someone who has never seen another Smith movie trying to make sense of this film!   Even to me, a fan of everything Smith does, this movie grew tiresome. (Look, kids!  Mark Hamill.  Thanks.)  This movie was Smith's Phantom Menace, the film that only the most ultra-hardcore fan could possibly enjoy, and then only out of pure sense of loyalty.      "},{"Title":"Hysterical...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  God, my stomach hurts.  I think I laughed for 90 minutes straight.  The most hilarious for me was the Good Will Hunting 2 filming!Anyway, here's your guide to the movieScenario #1) You have seen some/all of Kevin Smith's movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma) and you like them.  In this case, this movie is a 10!  Rush to the theatre now!Scenario #2) You have not seen any of Kevin Smith's movies, or worse, you did see them and didn't like them (how could that be?).  In this case, the movie is probably about a 4 for you.  Don't bother!By the way, it's a good idea to re-watch his older flicks, so you can catch the 1001 references to the other 4 movies.  This movie is basically a running inside joke.  I loved it!  Must see it again! "},{"Title":"Funny, smart, and well thought","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing this movie not even an hour ago I have to say it is easily the funniest film I've seen in years. Yes years. From the ongoing antics of the various characters from previous Smith films to the puns tossed at Matt Damon, Jason Biggs, Mark Hamill, and even the audience this film is chock full of goodness.The only complaint I might even register, and I'm only doing so because you have to complain about something, would be the international jewel thieves mentioned. Sexy, sassy, and full of charm these babes will knock you off your feet. BUT...the whole robbery takes just a few minutes too long. That's it. Nothing else in this film is bad. It strays in a few areas from the central plot but the audience will find itself not caring as Jay and Silent Bob carry on the antics that have made them the icons they are. Kudos and hats off to Kevin Smith, a nicely done film with enough surprises and laughs to keep anyone but those with virgin ears coming back for more. I rarely rate a film so high, and almost never want to see one twice but I'll see this one again and undoubtedly buy it when it comes out on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Perfect... Except for Shannon Elizabeth","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a funny movie.  I have been a big fan of Kevin Smith since Clerks. I enjoyed recognizing many of the same actors, characters, and jokes from all of his films in this film.  One part dragged in the middle... I'm not really complaining too much, but if you see the movie you'll know what I mean.  I was laughing uncontrollably in the beginning and the end especially...Everyone should enjoy this movie... for those out there who are offended by vulgarities, deal with it.  If everything was made P.C. what would be left to laugh at??My last point... How does Shannon Elizabeth get roles (besides her willingness to bare all)??  I mean her BAD acting was VERY distracting. She must being going for the Denise Richards thing or something. "}{"Title":"Only worth seeing if you're a hardcore Smith fan.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just got back from it... Not a very good movie.There are a number of funny gags, many of the insider variety. But there's really nothing else going on... it's like one of those horrible movies based on an already lame Saturday Night Live skit, except since it's Kevin Smith writing it, the jokes are actually funny.As the movie gets longer and longer, the gags get less smart and more slapstick, and by the end of it, I couldn't wait to get out of there.Although I stuck around through the end credits to see if Smith inserted more gags there.It's kind of a kick to see the characters from the older (better) Smith movies, but they haven't aged well. Affleck was clearly on his last legs when he shot this. Bad performances by the truly talentless Will Farell and by Shannon Elizabeth make the movie seem longer.If you're a Kevin Smith fan, you should see this. On cable. "},{"Title":"NUGGA-NOOCH","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocked I mean what Kevin Smith movie doesn't? Although Clerks will always be my favorite they are all very close in the running!!!!! Classic Jay and Silent Bob in this film. His Baby Harley Quinn is Adorable And His Wife Jennifer Is Great!!!!! What more can I say KEVIN SMITH IS A GOD!!!!! "},{"Title":"How could you not like this movie?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a perfect end to the legacy that is Jay and Silent Bob. Chock full of pop culture refs, cameos, and much more, this is one movie I definitely was not disappointed. And it even came out on my birthday. How cool is that? What a cool birthday present. I hope this movie beats Bubbleboy at the box office. If there's any intelligence left in the moviegoing public, it will. Kevin Smith is God! No, wait. Alanis Morrisette is.Bonus idiotic comments made about this movie (with why they're idiotic in parentheses)This movie Bubbleboy was so much better then Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back because it was original, funny, and sweet. (What the heck is sweet, funny or original about racial stereotypes?)No intellectual moviegoer will laugh at the mind-numbing array of insults and circumstances that transpire on screen. (Since when did inside jokes and good parody become unintelligent? For that matter, are you calling me unintelligent?)Not even fans of Smith's previous work will appreciate this ugly, unpleasant trash. (Yeah, we don't appreciate his best work to date. Yeah, that's logical. Yeah, the person who wrote this isn't uptight and bitter.)The movie contains characters based on their comic book counterparts, and they have not received a dime in royalties yet. The two drug buddies venture across America to sabotage the movie at all costs. (That's not why they were trying to sabotage the movie. They were trying to sabotage the movie because they were getting blasted online. And the people that were blasting them online I suspect are much like the people blasting this movie online.)Along with way, they try to give a nun oral sex, make friends with an orangutan, fall in love with beautiful jewel thieves, smoke some joints with Scooby Doo and friends, interrupt various movies in the making, and even fight Mark Hamill in a retarded Star Wars spoof. (So many retarded comments here, where do I start? OK how about the beginning? First two comments This person is trying to convince us this movie is bad? Third comment Jay only fell in love with Justice. Jewel thief should be singular. Fourth and Fifth See comments one and two. And the Star Wars Spoof was NOT retarded.)Throughout the  film, the entire audience was in stitches-laughing hysterically. Did I miss the joke. I don't think so-I was watching the same movie. I just have a higher standard of humor for myself than laughing at a movie that insults me and its own kind. (Well when you and your own kind are uptight and bitter, of course this movie is insulting to you.)I left the theater feeling sad and angry. (Boo hoo. Why don't you go watch Bubbleboy and stop trashing great movies like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back?)OK I just found out there's 131 comments about this movie. Sure not all of them are negative, but if I make this much longer, this probably won't get posted so I'll end it here. "},{"Title":"It's a Great Film, or a Piece of S...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Kevin Smith's movies, you will love this film, and you willhave many reasons to love it. If you do not like Kevin Smith's films, orif you have never seen any of them, you will probably hate it, and youwill have many reasons to hate it. I like Smith's other work, and I waslaughing out loud when I saw Jay and Silent Bob. It's one of the bestcomedies I have seen in a while.   "},{"Title":"Great movie, and a great end....","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great movie, and a great end to an epic.  The View Askewniverse looks like it's closed it's doors to all it's adoring fans.  This was a great way to end the movie series.  Showing characters from the past.  And making us all laugh our asses off!  Kevin Smith pulled it off again in making a memorable movie with lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those who feel that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a never ending homophobic joke they are not mistaken but the big joke of this movie is the Jersey Chronic's past four movies.This movie brings back many memorable characters including, Dante Hicks, Randal, Holden McNiel, Brodie Bruce, Banky Edwards, Tricia The Dish Jones, Alyssa Jones, Hooper X, and of course the ever famous Jay and Silent Bob along with adding tons of new characters along the way. This movie is a non-stop joke towards every movie Kevin Smith has made including the famous line I'm not even supposed to be here today.The performances in this movie were excellent by Jason Mewes and his silent partner Kevin Smith who makes a great performance with little dialogue. Will Ferrell is one of the funniest men ever and Shannon Elizabeth was great.  Matt Damon and Ben Affleck are hilarious as they insult each others movie career's and more(don't want to give anything away) and of course the homages to movies such as Star Wars and Planet of the Apes were excellent. Kudos to all who made cameos in the movie.Don't listen to what all the critics say, Jay and Silent Bob is a great movie that almost has no purpose but to make the fans laugh.  Jay and Silent Bob will be missed. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Jersey saga is finished in the best way possible.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob, who get kicked off of Quick-stop property by Dante Hicks and Randal Graves, Go to Brodie Bruce's comic shop and learn that a movie is being made based on the comic book that Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards created that is based on them. They then decide to go to Hollywood and destroy the production. You lost or confused yet? For those of you who are-you may not be a fan of Smith films and not enjoy this movie at all. Kevin Smith has made his previous four films for everyone, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back has been made for himself and everyone who is a die-hard fan of his Askew-niverse. For those people that are still reading and wondering what I thought about the movie well it was fantastic! I really enjoyed it. I speculated as to wether a movie souly featuring a guy who never speaks and a guy who speaks way too much would work-those speculations were pleasingly shattered after about 5 minutes of film time. Smith fans go see this film. I have no doubt in my mind that you will all understand and fully appreciate what he tries to do with JASBSB. Casual and non-fans, this may or may not be your film, it depends on you. I guess that was Smith's intentions the whole time. Heck he very well could be that confident in that everyone has at least seen one of his films. Who knows? But this movie does contain a lot of cursing and some off-color humor at times, so people who get offended easily or simple-minded folk need not see this film. There isn't much that I want to reveal about plot, but I can say that those who read Smith's comic Chasing Dogma, will be pleasantly surprised by some sequences. A 3 out of 4 "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film Tribute to the Film Industry Itself...","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To simply put it, Kevin Smith put everything he's ever wanted to do into a script and was PAID to do it. It's fantastic, his imagination really runs wild, and you're never left with a moment's piece from all the jokes. If the dialog isn't making you laugh, then something in the background is. You just want to see this movie again and again. Buy all day tickets and live in that room. Every scene that's ever made you want to be in the movie biz because it would be just so damn fun to do is in this movie. It's like stepping into Jay and Silent Bob's world. The turn out of people with cameo's just goes to show how popular Smith is to this industry. Bob and Jay's duel with Mark Hamill is a mixture of Star Wars with 60's Batman and gave me the burning desire to see Sam Raimi's Spider-Man or anything comic related on the planet. His love of these movies and comics just rubs right off on you and you walk out of the flick just wanting to grab your girl/guy/pal and watch 24 hours of View Askew movies with some other classics in-between.The very intro clued people into just how damn silly this movie will be. If you have any worries, they'll be put to rest within the very first few moments of the film. Jason Mewes never becomes tiring, and Kevin Smith's Silent Bob is one of the most underrated acts. Smith's facial expressions, hand movements and background movement do more than words ever could. Mewes's full personality shines, as we're given the full perspective of Jay's character. Every word he says is well crafted and is given with an Oscar winning performance. Smith light-heartedly makes fun of the film industry, the internet, comics and everything else while still being as sadistic about it as possible.Some downfalls 1) If anyone's read the comics, you'll notice that some scenes are taken right out of the books. They're all great ideas, but this is a shame for some because it's like watching something all over again. This is great for those of you haven't read the comic books, but is a drag for others. Unless of course you want nothing better than to see the comics in live action. 2) Casting Will Ferrell (Federal Wildlife Marshall Wilenholly) was a mistake. His style really clashes with Smith's and takes away from the movie. He breaks your concentration, and is the type of stupid silly that people who watch Smith flicks try to stray away from. 3) The parody of other movies reminded me so much of other REALLY bad movies that I found them almost out of taste. Smith pulls them off as best as they can ever been done, and are as funny as hell, but I still get Scary Movie flash backs just thinking about it. 4) Not enough of the oldies were in it. I was hoping for more from Dante and Randle especially. Since they got Smith where he is today, I wanted to see more screen time devoted to them. And I could always do with more Jason Lee.Those are all just knit-pickings, and I think J&SBSB is Smith's best effort to date. It's fast paced, never leaves you wishing a certain scene was over and done with, and allows you to laugh at the very things you love and walk away reminding you just what great flicks those were too. His direction has really grown, and the camera takes a much more active role in the film. Smith is the biggest movie fan to become director, and has some of the greatest senses of humor a human has to offer our race. "},{"Title":"coolness","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  If you enjoy Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and/or Dogma you'll love this movie.  This movie brought back all the Kevin Smith Alumni and even had his wife's acting debut.  If you don't like swearing don't see this because Jay is very vocal.   "},{"Title":"I quit!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky to score some free passes to see an advance screening of J&SBSB, and asked my sister to tag along (She doesn't like these types of movies, but she said she would come anyway).  We had to travel to West Hell (Not REALLY, although after a 30 minute freeway trip, we had to travel 10 more miles on the street level--DAMN!), but, for me, it was worth it.By the first 5 minutes of the movie, I was crying and laughing.  There were times during the movie my sister looked at her watch, but even after the movie, we were quoting lines and giggling like school girls.Highlights include (this list is by no means complete)1) The opening scene the nicely sums up why Jay's vocabulary is the way it is, how Silent Bob and Jay became friends, why they hang around the Quick Stop, and Silent Bob's role in Jay's life.2) Gus Van Sant's cameo (Short, but deliciously sweet)3) Jason Lee as Banky (Even though he also revived his role as Brodie, Banky is closer to my heart)4) Matt Damon was surprising funny (with a straight face), and Ben Affleck was kooky (Kooky's good!)5) Chris Rock as Chaka (Yeah, the paranoid Black guy finding racism in EVERYTHING has been done over and over again, but it was VERY funny here.)6) The Time -- you read it right, The Time.  And, Kevin and Jason could groove (almost better then the band).7) Mark Hamill and Carrie Fisher's cameos.What/who I wanted to see, but, alas, was not in the final cut1) Clips from TV Commericalsa) Two prostitutes come up to Jay and Silent Bob and ask them, more or less, if they could use their services.  Jay says what they could do (Since it's for TV, it's chopped up, but you pretty much get the idea he says something disgusting).  One of the prostitutes puts her hand up and says, I quit!.b) Will Farrell in the bathroom, talking his excrement.Hopefully, they will be on the DVD, or a director's cut (cough, cough)!2) Where was Jeremy London?The humor is not for everyone (LOTS of dick and fart jokes on rapid-fire), yet I can honestly say that this movie is hilarious.  As long as you know up front it's not Clerks or Chasing Amy, then be prepared to laugh. "}{"Title":"You will wet yourself!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, the only downfall is maybe dying from lack of oxygen from laughing so hard, that and soiling yourself! Creams AP2, it's so much better, It's not as deep as other Kevin Smith movies, but it's not supposed to be, just see it! "},{"Title":"Aggressively stupid, and thus, hilarious","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  J&SBSB is Kevin Smith's aggressively stupid finale to his tales of New Jersey. It's as dopey as it is on purpose, and Kev manages to satirize not only everything he's ever worked on, but just about every excessive, formulaic and asinine thing Hollywood has produced in the last 30 years. I laughed a lot, and although some bits didn't work for me, I enjoyed myself quite a bit.Since (no big surprise here) most IMDB (and AICN, etc. etc.) commentators seem to judge the film on how well it lived up to their expectations and needs (rather than on its own merits) let me set yours if you haven't seen the picture it's something on the order of The Blues Brothers in which the laws of physics and logic are routinely suspended so the protagonists can make dick and fart jokes (rather than do song and dance routines) at the expense of egotists in Hollywood and on the 'net. You're invited to come along for the ride if you accept that. If you don't, or can't, you won't like the film. "},{"Title":"A funny spoof/stoner film","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film at it's sneak preview and I have to say that I was surprised.  I didn't think that it was going to be a stoner film, but it was.  It's filled with shock comedy and funny scenes that will have most people laughing.  You may wish to brush up on your Kevin Smith films before hand, as well has Hollywood in general, because nothing is sacred in this comedy. "},{"Title":"funniest movie in years!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of funniest movies in years. The first time I saw it I had to go see it again. I love this movie. Whenever you get some little cash and have nothing to do, go to the movie and see this movie. Even if you dont know the other movies, you will still like it. You would walk in saying what is this movie all about, or i dont even know why im doing this, but when u come out you will say to yourself.. man that was a really funny movie. Just go see it, to see it for yourself! Go.. now... out the door...  turn off the computer and go... trust me its worth the money! "},{"Title":"good, not as good","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was funny but it wasnt as good as Kevin Smith's previous 3 efforts.  The humor in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back isn't as sophisticated as Dogma nor as crazy as Brodie Bruce's in Mallrats.  However, the frequent references to the other movies in the Jersey Collection provide a good smile and laugh every time while the constant spoofs entertain throughout. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith Strikes Gold!!!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a fan of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma, you will love this movie.  Although the plot line is incredibly stupid, the laughs just keep coming and coming.  I saw a screening of this movie last Friday (the 17th) at a screening.  If you like Kevin Smith, (or Jay and Silent Bob), I definitely recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Such a funny movie...one of the best in the Askewniverse!!!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My girlfriend and I were lucky enough to get into a sneak preview over last weekend (8-18).  Let me tell you, such a funny movie.  This movie has been ranked officially in the View Askew movie order for me as this now, Clerks, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma.Anyway, go see this movie if you haven't already.  I know I am preaching to the converted, to most who read this section.Congrats Kev on such a good movie and looking foward to seeing more of your work in the future. "},{"Title":"A Film made by Kevin Smith not just for fans....","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...but mainly for fans. Anyone who is a fan of the Jersey Trilogy will surely get more than they paid for with this film. There are surprisingly few refrences to marijuana or uber-crude humor than what you might expect, but fear not; the movie is not without a few scatalogical jokes thrown in. What this movie strives to be, and succeeds at, is being one long in-joke. The jokes, and the cameos, fly by in the likes not seen since Airplane. Kevin Smith fans will drool over this film, and deservedly so. Almost the entire Askewineverse crew show up at one point or the other, and this is a quite fitting send off to Kevin's Jersey saga. And by the way, if you do not stay until the FINAL CREDIT reel is over (after the peerlees performance of Because I was High by Afroman) you are a moron. Stay till the last second. This last 30 seconds made made smile from ear to ear and cry a (single) tear, nowhing that this is indeed the end of a  sometime juvenile, often brilliant, saga of Red Bank, NJ. Let's hope Kevin gets the Fletch franchise with Jason Lee. JSBSB-Great Movie!!  "},{"Title":"All hail Kevin Smith!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the best I have ever seen.  With just about as many Star Wars references as a Star Wars movie itself, it's a must see for any fanboys of Smith's or Wars.  The cameo by Mark Hamill is worth the admission by itself.  True enough, fans of Smith's earlier works will have a better time, there's enough true comic genius in the movie to let those 'uninitiated' still have a really good time.  I cannot recommend this movie enough! Kevin Smith is a dialogue god, a fanboy supreme, and one of the most insightful people I have ever had the pleasure of hearing rants from.  Good thing this is the last movie, because he would be hard pressed to top this one! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the year!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, let me say that there is absolutely no moral to this film. Most of Kevin Smith's previous films in the New Jersey Chronicles series have had some sort of message, be it about religion (Dogma), sexuality (Chasing Amy), or anything else. But Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is just pure comedy. But it is great comedy. Definitely one of the funniest movies I have seen in a very long time. Any moral in the film would just take away from the laughs, so it's better off.I don't want to give too many of the jokes away, but take my word for it, the film is absolutely hilarious. I'm not generally a fan of gross out/sex comedies like this, but Kevin Smith does a such a great job of writing the jokes that J&SBSB is infinitely funnier than all of those other movies combined. There's tons of hilarious cameos in the movie. I swear, it'd be easier to list all of the people who AREN'T in the movie. Some of the highlights include a bit with Matt Damon and Ben Affleck playing themselves, a bit with Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek playing themselves, and a bit with Mark Hamill (Luke Skywalker) spoofing Star Wars. Actually, the entire movie is like a highlight reel. Other movies would be lucky to have 1 or 2 jokes this good.A lot of the characters from the View Askew/New Jersey Chronicles family also make return appearances in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Ben Affleck, in addition to playing himself, also reprises his role from Chasing Amy. Jason Lee reprises his roles from both Chasing Amy and Mallrats. There are numerous others as well. There are quite a few in-jokes that will be lost on people who haven't seen the other movies. But most of the jokes will be understood by anyone. I saw the movie with a friend who hadn't seem any of the previous ones, and he thought it was hilarious. The little in-jokes are like an added bonus in film that is, otherwise, still extremely funny.Of course, I can't talk about Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back without talking about Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith). For the first time in the series, they have a movie all their own. And they carry it very well. Jason Mewes shows that he has come a long way as an actor, and is more than capable of carrying a film. And Kevin Smith as Silent Bob is the perfect companion (or should I say, hetero life mate) for the foul-mouthed, over-sexed Jay.While I'm talking about Kevin Smith, I should mention his directing. His writing skills have always been great, but some people have criticized his directing. I never thought he was a bad director, but he has definitely improved since Clerks, his first film. He's gone from being a pretty good director, to a very good one. It's uncommon to see direction this good in a slapstick comedy movie.On a slightly serious note, I want to briefly mention the GLAAD protests of this movie, saying it is overly homophobic. I'm gay, and I didn't find it at all offensive. I think they forget that Jay is, basically, a moron, so anything he says can't be taken seriously. Smith has said that he intended it as a satire, and I think he succeeds. There's actually a point in the film where a character is chastised for calling something gay. There's also a funny disclaimer about it in the credits.Actually, there's lots of funny stuff in the credits, including a cameo by Alanis Morissette at the very end, so stick around. Overall, there's really no way Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back could be any funnier. Congratulations to Kevin Smith for creating a movie that is extremely crude, but extremely funny.Rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"A treat for Kevin Smith fans","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith offers up a treat for his fans with this hysterical sendoff of his cast of players.  The film is a wonderfully self-indulgent adventure that makes no apologies for failing to explain its humor to the uninitiated. In short, this is the feature film that you would make for your buddies if you had the resources.  It is also hands-down the funniest picture of the year and the movie which introduces us to one of the sexist girl-gangs in Hollywood history Shannon Eliazbeth, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, and newcomer Jennifer Schwalbach-Smith.  Smith rounds out the caper's cast with an assortment of major stars and Saturday Night Live favorites in what is destined to be a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the funniest movies ever made!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JSBSB is probably the movie that Mallrats would have been if Kevin Smith had made that one without studio interference. Tons of sight gags that cry out for repeated viewings to catch everything. It wouldn't hurt to see the other Kevin Smith movies before seeing this one. I'd recommend this to people that rate Airplane! and Animal House as their comedy favorites. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of the Millennium","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1. The opening was great.  Loved Jay's mom.2. Going from the hitchhiker to the nun and talking at cross-purposes (as it were), was classic farce construction.3. Aside from the fact that Kevin Smith is a genius, what raises Jay and Silent Bob to the level of classic comedy teams is that, as performers, Mewes & Smith love what they're doing and they love being there.  The energy and skill is at a high level.4. My childhood hankering for Scooby-Doo's Velma returned when it became apparent that she looks better in her underwear than Daphne.  I know, I know... FORGET her, Craig, she's a fictional lesbian!5. Aside from energy and intelligence, the movie has heart.  And multiple cameos.  Mark Hamill is great.  **SPOILER** You just know that having a light saber fight in Adam West's Batcave is Kevin Smith's dream come true.This is the funniest movie to come along this millennium.  And there was massive applause for the payoff when Jay asks Silent Bob for information about a truck they are chasing.  Hysterically funny movie.Did I mention it's funny? "},{"Title":"The epitome of Kevin Smith's World.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smiths world consists of long running gags and comic books. His other films for Viewaskew had more of an independent feel, lacking the commercial aspects of Jay and Silent Bob. But by no means does that take away from Kevin Smith's final film in the Jersey trilogy. In fact, this film combines all of the hilarious aspects of all Smith other films, having almost ever character making a small cameo here and there. This film revolves around the two notorious henchman, Jay and Silent Bob. Few believed they could carry their own movie, but with all the cameos and gags, they are able to pull the movie through, creating one of the most original and hilarious comedies ever. "},{"Title":"The swan song for two great characters","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They're like Bill and Ted meet...Cheech and Chong! If you're a fan of Kevin Smith's work (Clerks, MALLRATS, Chasing Amy, Dogma) you'll absolutely love Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. It's one huge inside joke. If you're not familiar with these characters, you'll still laugh your ass off! Smith's amazing ability to write dialogue is showcased here, along side great cameos from some of the biggest names in showbiz. Don't take it too seriously, and you'll be better for it. Not for children under 17. "},{"Title":"More Kevin Smith goodness!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith returns with yet another amazingly funny movie.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the final installment of the New Jersey movies, and as such it is the best of the five.  A very good movie.  Full of Kevin Smith's trademark wit and humor.  A must for Kevin Smith fans like myself. "},{"Title":"Great closer to a great series. **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith has outdone himself. He has made a film not just for himself as a filmmaker, but for the fans. This film is constantly reminding us of where he's been, and possibly where he's going. From the very opening, where we find the origins of Jay and Bob, to the final frame of the film, (SPOILER ALERT!) where God, herself (credited as That Woman) closes the book, literally, on the View Askewniverse... possibly forever. For fans of the Jersey films, this film will serve as a true testament of growth. From the 16mm, shot in black-and-white Clerks to the Super 35, color-saturated widescreen vista of J&SBSB, we see how far Kevin Smith has come as a writer and director. He may complain about his deficiency as a visual stylist (ref. the Dogma screenplay), but he does a terrific job with handling the many things this movie throws at you.Jason Mewes turns in a great performance as everyone's favorite foul-mouthed drug dealer. Several times, I caught myself being amazed at how far he, too, has come as an actor. And Kevin Smith's performance as Silent Bob really hearkens back to some of the great silent performers of the last century--Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin--his facial expressions and gestures are well worth the price of admission. And when Silent Bob speaks, the world not only listens, but laughs their collective asses off as well. And this marks the first (and perhaps the last) time we will hear an enraged Silent Bob. The cameos by the cast of thousands is also another great reason to see this movie. From the hilarious turn by Mark Hamill (trust me, you can't miss the cartoon-like HEY KIDS! IT'S MARK HAMILL!! (applause) supertitle), to the sublime George Carlin, you'll recognize many different actors from all walks of the entertainment world. Diedrich Bader is hilarious as the security guard who just LOVES to watch (seriously!), and Will Ferrell is extremely funny as Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly. On the whole, this is a great film for the fans of the series. If you're not a View Askew nerd, you'll still enjoy it, but miss out on most of the in-jokes. Oh, and yes... Mallrats closes with Jay and Silent Bob walking away with an orangutan named Suzanne. This is that whole other story that they were talking about!! "},{"Title":"Great send-off for a very funny pair","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back last week. I knew it would be funny since I enjoyed Kevin Smith's Dogma and Clerks. I laughed out loud the whole time, despite the fact that as I could see from my company in the theater, I was not your typical Kevin Smith fan.J&SB SB is funny not only for its crude humor and incessant use of the f-word, but also its references to many current TV shows/movies  and stars. Those who are unfamiliar with Smith's past work as well as current movies may find themselves missing quite a few of the jokes. I hate reading long reviews, so I'll wrap it up now and elaborate some other time. All in all, J&SB SB is a great wrap up to Jay and Bob's adventures, as well as a nice jab at Hollywood- not so much cynical and unappreciative, but more of a good-natured teasing. It's sad to see them go, but I'll be happy to watch this Jay & Silent Bob movie over and over again when I'm missing their inane antics. "},{"Title":"No plot... but who cares?","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me laughing from beginning to end, including the end credits during that apropos ditty by Afroman, Because I Got High. It's one sight gag or sex joke after another. Smith takes aim at the Hollow-wood system, Star Wars, The Fugitive, Charlie's Angels, his previous movies and the infamous View Askew WWWBoard; there are no sacred (Mooby) cows untouched in what is a fitting end of (his) Askewniverse. As far as subject matter and plot, this movie is not remotely in the same class as Clerks or Chasing Amy, arguably his best films to date. HOWEVER, if you are a die-hard Kevin Smith fan, you will really love and appreciate this movie for what it is. Jersey represent! "},{"Title":"Mallrats revisited","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the second of director Kevin Smith's projects that I would have to call a movie rather than a film (Mallrats is the other one). Unlike his earlier efforts, which dealt with such taboo topics as religion and sexual identity, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back holds aloft no moral statutes.  At best the movie contains a kernel of a plot in the idea that everyone everywhere gets criticized by someone in one way or another, so you shouldn't let it bother you.  Not quite the religious ponderings of Dogma.  But that's not to say that Jay & Silent Bob doesn't deliver exactly what it intends to.  It's funny. Damned funny.  And if you've seen at least one or two of his other films, it's an even bigger treat.  By the way, if substance is lacking in this flick (although it doesn't really need any), style more than makes up for it.  Smith's visual direction has been maligned more than once for being flat, but J&SB comes through with some classy, Hollywood-style visual effects.  One that immediately comes to mind is the diamond heist scene where four female thieves traverse a ridiculously complex web of laser-beams in order to steal some jewels.  Expect tons of laughs and more curse-words, fart jokes and Jay-isms in this outing than all of  the Jersey films put together.  I recall Smith once mentioning in a commentary that he received harsh criticism for shooting Dogma in wide-screen because the film's content didn't warrant such a dramatic and expressive format.  I can't wait to hear what they think of this one. "}{"Title":"You won't stop laughing even after you get out of your seat","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on a sneak preview Saturday and I had seen all of the other Kevin Smith flicks (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma).  In all Jay and Silent Bob kept me laughing through them all no matter how much of a small part they had in it.  These two heterosexual life mates are called Jay Phat Buds (Jay) and Silent Bob, now the names pretty much speak for them selves. Two guys that just hang out in front of convenient stores smoke drugs, deal drugs, and try to pick up women.  Now they have their own film which I knew without a doubt would have me laughing.  The plot is a little dumb but fans of Jay and Silent Bob don't care about plots, and neither did I.  This movie kept me laughing the entire time, the supporting cast really helps out in this classic comedy which will live on with the rest of his fine films. This one is a must see for ne one who isn't easily offended, and likes to laugh.  "},{"Title":"I know what you are going to say....","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, OK.  Look at my user name.  Decide to throw things at me from the start.  Sure, thats what most people would do.  But hear me out first.I have been a Kevin Smith fan since the beginning.  Clerks was smart, Mallrats was funny, Chasing Amy was touching, and Dogma was though provoking.  OK, yeah.  Im a fan.  So sue me.  The truth of the matter is, I was afraid for this flick.  After hearing the plot and being on set for a day, I felt this flick was going to be just another stupid comedy appealing to teenagers with out of control sex drives.Well, I saw it on Saturday night and I must say this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Im one of those folks who doesnt laugh during movies....ever.  I laughed out loud hard several times during this movie. I couldnt help it.  Between Jay, Will Ferrall, Jon Stewart, and the rest of the cast, I couldnt stop laughing.  Hilarious.  I dont feel the need to say anything else about this flick because the story was covered above. Just go see the movie.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a fan of the Kevin Smith movies, and was a bit worried that this would be a sell-out hollywood movie.  This isn't a typical Kevin Smith flick, because the plot is quite thin, but it is still great.  I haven't laughed this much at a movie since I saw Me, Myself and Irene.  From the get-go the jokes start coming and they never stop.  I laughed through the entire movie. I thought it was a great movie in all.  I can't wait for it to come out on DVD, so I can watch it again, because due to the whole theater laughing hysterically I missed a lot of the jokes.  There are also so many cameos and one-liners, you cant take them in in one sitting.  I recommend this film to anyone with a good sense of humor (that isn't a prude).  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Snoochie Boochies","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Snoochie Boochies, What an adventure.  Spoofs just about everything including previous Kevin Smith flicks.  I especially enjoyed Good Will Hunting 2!  Shannon Elizebeth is totaly hot in this one.  See it Twice. "},{"Title":"If you're a Kevin Smith fan you will NEVER stop laughing...","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith knows his audience.  Bottom Line.  He also knows how to give them what they want.  It's been some time know that Kevin mentioned that this movie would be the last installment to feature any of the Jersey characters not to mention Jay and Silent Bob themselves.  On the way out the door he lets everyone who stuck with him through his first four flicks enjoy something that pretty much boils down to one 90 minute in-joke.  I caught the sneak-peak of this a week before it hit theaters and I've never heard that many people laugh so hard for so long, including myself.  There's probably less then 45 seconds between jokes, rapid fire one after another. I was lucky to catch my breath before I was rolling all over again.  It's definatly got a specific role in being the finale for the Jay and Silent Bob characters and the Askewniverse as a whole.  After getting to know all of Kevin's character's since Clerks, this movie uses just about all of the major players and sort of let's you enjoy the ride while saying goodbye to the characters in the funniest of all possible ways.   "},{"Title":"continuity of cameo","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  cameo (kam-e-o) n. pl. cameos 3.A brief appearance of a prominent actor, as in a single scene of a motion picture. Also called cameo role. ---------------------------------------------------------------------This movie, while thouroughly entertaining, is essentially a two hour-long succession of cameo appearances.  Make sure that you know your View Askew trivia, because it is essential to getting the full effect of the movie.Well worth the price of admission for this finely tuned and well-worked collection of potty humor served on a silver platter.  "},{"Title":"Proof that making good movies can be great fun","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd been waiting over a year for this movie, and I'd been keeping track of all the people being cast, and I couldn't wait. Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Jason Lee, Chris Rock, Judd Nelson, Shannon Elizabeth, Will Ferrel, and Mark Hamill(!), just to name a few, all in one movie? Sure, the plot is silly and really nothing to speak of, but everyone looks like they are having a blast. I can only imagine the fun that was had when cameras weren't rolling. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen..","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie will go down with the great comedies of our time! I laughed for 80 of the 90 minutes... I hope everybody watches this movie with open eyes (There is too much to miss if you blink)... I know that Kevin Smith said that this will be the last live action movie with Jay & Silent Bob... But if this movie makes 100 Million then i am sure that Mirimax won't let him stop... at least I hope not!!!KEVIN KEEP MAKING JAY & BOB MOVIES!!!! "},{"Title":"Well, better than Dogma","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Going into this film I was nervous but yet excited since I have seen Chasing Amy on the big screen and loved it. But yet I saw Dogma on the big screen and it was terrible. Seeing a sneak preview of JASBSB, it was average.The film starts off hilarious and just like Clerks. Takes place in the local town in New Jersey, same characters, funny situations, etc. As soon as their road trip is half way over and they introduce the most annoying character ever (this police officer played by the untalented Will Farrell) the film literally stops dead. Nothing funny happens and when they hit Hollywood, it REALLY is not funny anymore. When Kevin Smith is angry at something such as the Catholic Church (Dogma) or the internet and Hollywood (JASBSB) then the film becomes just his way of venting his anger out. This is not funny.Again, starts off great but ends on a down note. Still, its better than Dogma.  "},{"Title":"The adventure continues...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a flick!  Jay and Silent Bob go out with a bang.  I got to see J&SBSB Friday night in an advanced screening.  This was the perfect movie to retire the dynamic duo.  Too many cameos and inside jokes to count.  I had to go to the video store that night to rent Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma just to make sure I got all the jokes and references.  If you've never seen a Jay & Silent Bob movie, you're in for a treat.  And once again, Silent Bob gets the best lines!  "}{"Title":"If you don't like this movie, they'll kick your ass!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a riot! Very self-indulgent. High smirkability.You have to say good things about this movie, or Jay and Silent Bob will come to YOUR house next!Lampoons everything, especially itself.Nicely done.-Pete. "},{"Title":"Must see for Kevin Smith fans","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hysterical for Kevin Smith fans, the movie is full of inside jokes for the fan, as well as just full-out visual comedy that will kill anyone.Watch for the cameos by Seann William Scott, Matt Damon/Ben Affleck and Mark Hamill.  Very funny. "},{"Title":"Funniest View Askew Film!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is this Kevin Smith's BEST movie? No. That honor still belongs to Chasing Amy. But I think I'm safe in calling this, hands-down, his funniest movie. And to my amazement, it's not just one big in-joke. there's plenty in this movie for non-fans to enjoy, although a knowledge of the previous View Askew flicks can only make this better. I caught the sneak preview Saturday and I've never heard an audience laugh so much or clap so often. 90% of the people even stayed until the end of the credits -- which has a final little surprise that's well worth it for Kevin Smith fans. Go. See this movie. LOVE this movie. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious and a must see for Smith fans","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I've seen this year and maybe in a few years. I am a Kevin Smith fan, I really love all his flicks(even Mallrats) and found this one to be possibly his best or 2nd best(I haven't made up my mind). I won't go into any details of the film but I will say that most all of Smith's major characters from his 4 previous films are back and it has a ton of cameos of people who weren't even in his other films. My favorite was probably Mark Hamill, playing a villain from the Bluntman and Chronic movie. There's basically no plot, but who cares when the movie is so funny you won't even notice. This is a must see for Smith's fans but I seen it with 2 people who didn't know any of his other movies and they even loved it. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Comedic summary to the Jersey Trilogy","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I read that the characters Holden, Banky and Alyssa were reprised roles in this film, I was hoping that we would have a happy ending post Chasing Amy.  However, when the film introduces Holden (Ben Affleck) with the subtle but catchy tune from the film, I knew I wasn't getting a heartfelt reconciliation from the Chasing Amy trio.  Kevin Smith pulls no punches in this film towards every taboo in Hollywood, whether it be Hollywood need for greed instead of a healthy plot, homosexuality in the industry (which Kevin Smith felt wrath from GLAAD about), or the tacky references to the relationships between Kevin Smith and his army repeat actors.  The fact of the matter is that this movie is just plain fun.  Kevin puts a close to the Jay & Silent Bob gag with a film of old friends and memorable characters whose simply are the epitome of dick & fart jokes.  If your a Kevin Smith fan, you won't be disappointed, as long as you go into the film with an uncritical eye and just sit back and have fun.  Kudos to Kevin Smith for bringing Jay & Silent Bob into their own movie.... and a funny one at that. I look forward to see what Kevin Smith does next. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Score a Hit","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The two New Jersey stoners, Jay and Silent Bob, best known for their appearances in the first four View Askew films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma), return to form in the Askewniverse reunion / finale picture Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  The story goes that the duo, played by Jason Mewes and director Kevin Smith, has recently discovered that a movie is being made based on the comic book `Bluntman and Chronic,' which happens to be a fictional representation of their real life personas, a la Chasing Amy.  After discovering the Internet and reading bad comments about the movie's characters posted on a website, they go on a cross-country mission to stop its production to avoid further negative comments about their alter egos and, ultimately, themselves.However, the strength of the film lies not with the plot, but rather with the cameos, the rips of other better known movies, and the tie-ins from all four prior Askewniverse pictures.  When more than a handful of Hollywood stars get together to make a movie, the result is oftentimes regrettable. This is not the case with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, with appearances by everyone from current teen heartthrobs to screen legends.  Stars appearing in the film include James Van Der Beek, Carrie Fisher, Wes Craven, Alanis Morissette, Scooby Doo and the Gang, Jon Stewart, George Carlin, Gus Van Sant, Morris Day and the Time, and Shannen Doherty just to name a few.Apart from calling in favors from seemingly every actor, actress, and director in Hollywood, Kevin Smith does his best to pick at films that have marked the movie industry since the late 1970's.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back takes aim at both classics, such as Star Wars and E.T., and more recent movies, such as Charlie's Angels, Good Will Hunting, and Scream.  As not to forget his faithful Askewniverse fans, Smith does an excellent job tying in images, characters, places, and ideas from his first four films.While it isn't necessary to see Smith's other movies first to enjoy this one, some of the dialogue makes a lot more sense and many of the jokes are a lot funnier because they flow right from the other films, a skill that many of today's directors have trouble with when doing sequels.  Although Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is littered with the types of foul language and crude sexual humor that has become common to movies such as American Pie and Scary Movie, Smith does not depend solely on these things as a source of entertainment for his audiences.  Smith's final Askewniverse film not only lives up to the standards set by its predecessors, but it also completes a series that will be admired and enjoyed for many years to come, without a feeling of loose ends still needing to be tied.  "},{"Title":"It was worth the wait...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though not as cerebral as some of Kevin Smith's movies, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is chuck full of references to other movies, and of the New Jersey Movie Set. I found the history of Jay and Bob to be most enlightening and thoroughly enjoyable. If you are even remotely interested in Kevin Smith's films, by all means, watch and enjoy this one.One last piece of advice, stay and watch the credits, they are most intriguing.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but only for Smith fans","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to catch a sneak preview of Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back over the weekend, and while I have rarely laughed harder at a movie, it occurred to me that this is possibly Kevin Smith's most inaccessible movie to date.  A large portion of the movie's best jokes almost require having seen the other movies he has done, as characters are introduced with no back story throughout.If you've seen the rest of Kevin Smith's stuff, be sure not to miss this flick.  If you're looking for a jumping in point for his work, this would probably be the worst place to start. "},{"Title":"a buddy spoof movie, that works!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not since the original Lethal Weapon film have two central protaganists genuinely work together so well. This is a buddy movie that rings true, because it is true. Where as other films may try and portray the idea that the actors were having fun when shooting, in this film it's obvious they really were. Everything about this film is comic, relaxed and naturally fun. The plot is irrelevant, but unlike other recent films such as Scary Movie II, it doesn't play as a string of unrelated set pieces. the film flows well, and keeps the interest high. Also, unlike SM2, the parodies of other films are slight and funny, and although the jokes are centered around farts and blow jobs, they never become too gross. This film doesn't try and shock to amuse, it just amuses. This film is everything the other teen flicks of this summer were trying to be, but failed to be. Well done Kevin. "},{"Title":"The saga ends.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Kevin Smith's View Askew universe, than you will like this finale.  Do we learn anything new about the characters?  A little.  Is there any character development?  Even less.  Am I glad I saw it?  Very much. "}{"Title":"Go see it if vulgarity and gay jokes don't bother you","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview of this in Ocean Township this past Saturday. It seemed to draw a varied crowd, some of whom should NOT have been at this movie. A couple in their mid to late 40s sat behind me and was obviously not amused by the sophmoronic jokes and vulgarity. But like I said, They obviously shouldn't have bothered going. Everyone else in the audience had a grand old time. Laffs galore, so long as you have an ear for  vulgar language and a scatalogical sense of humor. It was self-indulgent, but in a good way. It reminded me of the best of the shorts that Kevin and Jason filmed for MTV.There is a lot here that could offend people. I somewhat understood why GLAAD attacked Kevin Smith, for the movie, but mostly that's because they obviously don't quite get what he's doing with the homosexual jokes. Jay and Silent Bob are stuck (figuratively) in Junior High School, or maybe 10th grade of High School, where sexually confused boys tease each other constantly because they don't know whats up. Jay talks a mean game, but I bet you could count the number of times he's had sex, on one hand (his right one maybe).Maybe I just have a soft spot for Kevin Smith since he used my HS yearbook in Chasing Amy, but I think this movie is the best of the summer.Plus, after seeing this movie, I don't want to post anything negative on the internet about him!  "},{"Title":"A great way to end the New Jersey Saga!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The last Jay and Silent Bob live-action film is easily one of the best. Not 30 seconds go by without laugh-out-loud hysterics.  It is a must-see for all moviegoers, not this those that are fans of Smith's earlier work (although they will catch more inside jokes than non-Smith fans).  Go see this movie again and again.  The best film of the 2001 summer, BY FAR!!!! "},{"Title":"the funniest movie you will see this year","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing the sneak preview of this the week before it opened I am throughly convinced it's the funniest film of the year. Jay and silent bob strike back is about when the two main characters find there is a movie being made about them without their consent they must stop it from getting made. Though the plot isn't much, the comedy is. You'll be laughing so much that you will forget there was a plot. This is the type of funny that after you see it you want to get all your friends to see it. Though there is a lot of cursing and some people may be offended by some things said, if you are willing to forget your morals for 90 minutes, you shall be greatly rewarded. "},{"Title":"For fans, heaven","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best way to describe the final episode in the View Askew New Jersey quintilogy is that if you're a fan of Kevin Smith, you will love this movie. It is nonstop comedy that is part road movie, part caper, love story, and heavy heavy heavy satire. The movie makes fun of film, the industry, the View Askew universe, and even itself.Of all of Kevin Smith's movies, this one is written the tightest. From the opening scene to the final scene (stick around after the credits), no moment is dwelled on too long, and there are no excesses. The reason that there are no excesses? The rules are broken very early and really set up the film to be goofball adventure.There are nods to all the past films, appearances by different characters, crossovers, but they all seem genuine. Not like a Jerry Zucker haha, but they actually make sense within the context of the story and the quips and jabs are part of the plot. The pacing reminds me of old Marx brothers movies. Well, that's the craft of the script. It's a relatively simple plot but the execution is pretty flawless with a healthy dose of genitalia, gay, and sex jokes.Both Jay (Jason Mewes) and Bob (Kevin Smith) play off each other and everyone else well enough to keep the movement going. Like Bond or Superman (or any other franchise), after four films playing the same character, you pretty much know how to do it and what works for a character (unless you're George Lucas). There are plenty of cameos, which I think says something about the way Kevin Smith works and how others respect him.An interesting bit is how big this movie is (or seems with a $15M budget). Complete with digital effects (bullets like in Saving Private Ryan, Charlie's Angels and animals) and explosions and eye-candy, it has the best look of any View Askew film, even lighting! But they also just help serve the story and frolick. From a technical side, it's sort of View Askew grows up. Lots more production value, stunts, visuals, even a decent score from Powerpuffs and Clerks the Animated Series composer James Venable.In the words of Chaka, this movie makes House Party seem like House Party 2. It is a party. A party for fans of Clerks, Chasing Amy, Dogma, and even Mallrats. With one good laugh, seeing old friends, one good time after another, and tons of references for film lovers abound. And even the most precious moment the origin of Jay and Silent Bob, in case you ever wondered.It should be noted that in some ways, Kevin Smith is very much a Shakespeare of the stoner gen. Within tawdry jokes and adult gags that appeal to the basest viewer, there often is an intelligent, poignant message. In Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, the message is clear Kevin Smith loves his fans and this movie is his gift to them.  It is a unique ability to create characters that others consider friends. Smith knows this, appreciates and rewards.  "},{"Title":"Not up with Chasing Amy, but better than Mallrats...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one is not quite up to the standard of Chasing Amy, but is better than Mallrats. Particularly enjoyable are the parts involving Affleck and Damon; also the Star Wars' spoof material. In fact, the whole thing was good; it just wasn't great... "},{"Title":"Starts out strong (and very funny) but gets more hit/miss as it goes along.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I caught a sneak preview of this movie, and went to see it with great expectations. Well, I left the theater a bit let down at what I had seen. While the first third of the movie is hysterical, the rest of the movie gets real hit or miss as it goes along. It's almost like writer/director Kevin Smith spent a great deal of time working out the first third or so of the movie, and then started filming without knowing what he was going to do next.But, the one thing that carries this movie are the terrific performances by Jason Mewes (a.k.a Jay) and Kevin Smith (a.k.a. Silent Bob). These guys are just so clue-less and total losers, but you just can't help but like 'em. Whenever they are on screen the movie is great (with the exception of a couple of small scenes) but around the midway mark the focus starts focusing on a bunch of jewel theives and a forced romantic subplot starts getting in the way. The movie does manage to end with a bang, but I just couldn't help but feel a bit disappointed with the results.Another mention should be that Chris Rock proves once again that he is easily one of the most annoying, talentless and unfunny actors working today.....yet he still keeps getting tons of work. I noticed that not one person in the audience laughing at his pointless tirade.But for the most part the movie is for the most part a love letter from Kevin Smith to fans of his other films (specifically Clerks, Chasing Amy and Mallrates) and any movie that has the unbelievably hot Eliza Dushku in panties and a bra (and a leather body suit with ample cleavage!) is all-right in my book.Good but could have been much better.Rating7.0      "},{"Title":"A-875-b6","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is not without serious consideration that I sit down and write a review of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I stall, just because of the fact that I don't want to be part of his lame joke. You see, in the latest Kevin Smith fiasco he tries to make us (his audience) feel ashamed for not liking his films or his style of filmmaking.  So since I don't want to be one of the people Jay and Silent Bob beat up at the end of the movie, I won't review it, I'll simply give him some advise. Who am I to give advice? Well, I am a fan. And I have been very pleased with his earlier films but lately he just seems distracted and un-focused. He has lost his touch. He had, and still has from time to time, a talent for telling stories about the mundane things in life, Clerks and even Mallrats (which he hates so much for making) completely take place in everyday events. He makes it interesting. And that's a gift, but is a gift he seems to be neglecting. The past two films Jay and Bob and Dogma have been driven by a plot that is so ridiculous that they seem to be written by another man. So my first advice is stick to the mundane, you make it great.Secondly, Stop using Ben Affleck in your movies the man sucks! There's a particular painful scene in Jay and Bob where they go to see Holden McNeil, played by Affleck, then man can't even play a character he has played before. The Holden that Jay and Silent Bob go to see is not the same from Chasing Amy, in fact I'm convinced that Jay and Silent bob ran into Ben Affleck in New Jersey. And from that scene advice three comes in from his own voice, Holden says I'm not interested in making money off Dick and Fart jokes&#133; Follow you own advise man. You can make movies that matter. People still talk about Chasing Amy and about how great and how honest it is. We love honesty; we can take a story about heartbreak a lot more than another joke about pot.Advice number four, We can never take enough Jason Lee. Give us more. Your Two best characters Brodie and Banky both played by Lee should have their own chance to shine, specially Banky who is such a endearing character. Mad is funny and Lee is the Olivier of Mad acting.Five and the most important advice I can give, believe in yourself. Jay and Bob reeks of insecurity. All of the jokes fall flat on its face just because you apologize for the fact that is not the greatest joke in the world. Just like you apologize for Mallrats what the f@(k is that about. F*(k them if they can take a joke. Just be funny, quote Star Wars, tell it from the heart and don't get involve in silly plots, they're unnecessary.And last, don't hate us for not being the most sophisticated audience out there. We can't help it.Lo  "},{"Title":"Review your library before seeing this film.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are way too many references, cameos and subtle jokes in this movie to not be intricately familiar with the previous four Smith films.  If you are armed with a good working knowledge of the View Askewniverse, you will no doubt enjoy the latest installment.  It was great to see all the characters back (especially Randall; where was Jeff when Kevin did Mallrats and Amy?) The dialogue is slick, the jokes crude and plentiful, and there are plenty of moments where Kevin reaches out to the audience and says I know who you are, I know how you think, I know what you want to see.  Thanks for a great film, Kevin.  "},{"Title":"A warm fuzzy hug to his fans","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's right...that's what this film is.  Kevin Smith has reached deep into his back of tricks and is giving us everything we could possibly want out of his characters.I'm not saying non-fans won't find something to enjoy...'cause that just wouldn't be true.  I'm saying that this is Mr. Smith's way of saying Thank you to the fans that searched out Dogma, and told their friends about Chasing Amy, and enjoyed Mallrats!He's made it known that this is the last of his Jersey films.  IN some subtle and not so subtle ways he threads that thought through the story...realizing when it's time to grow up, when it's time to stop what you're doing and move on, and when it's time to leave well enough alone. If his next films can elicit as equal a response from fans as his first 5 have, you won't hear anyone complaining.Mr. Smith is a gutsy dude to turn away from what the masses want,  to pursue what he wants.  He saw it was time to end the story, and gave the fans everything they could want.  Thank him by watching his movies, both the old and the ones yet to come.Thank you Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"Snoogins","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The 5th, and final, installment of the New Jersey saga has everything that a final movie should.  First of all, it focuses on our main characters throughout the entire movie, which are Mewes, Smith, Elizabeth, and Farrell. These four are fantastic together, especially Farrell who shows his versatility outside of the SNL audience and does a fantastic job.  Mewes is also top-notch as you see he finally reaches his peak as his performances have gotten significantly better throughout these movies.  Smith's facial expressions are funnier than any words he could utter, and Elizabeth is charming, yet sometimes awkward but fills her role to a tee.I think the one of the best things about this movie are the guest appearences.  Not only is every former character represented (except Caitlin Bree and Veronica), but the parts they are given are well suited.  Some characters have one liners and some, such as Affleck and Lee, are given entire scenes.Kevin Smith, in my opinion, is the next Scorcese.  Even though he plans on veering away from the New Jersey flicks, I will continue to watch his work. In the meantime, see this movie. "}{"Title":"Close Shop Everyone, The funniest comedy of the year has arrived!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie blowed me away. Never has a movie had me laughing so hard that I was begging for a pause or a break in story. But it keeps rolling on. Never has an hour and a half of jokes be put together, I stood up and cheered the movie as the credits rolled. The last adventure of Jay and Silent Bob has them tie up some loose ends, meets some old pals and make some new ones. Worth The Money to see, but WARNING THIS COULD BE DANGEROUS IF YOU HAVE A WEAK HEART, YOU MIGHT HAVE A HEART ATTACK FROM LAUGHING.  "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Go Out With A Bang!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got the chance to see this film at the sneak preview tonight. I have to say I was pleasently surprised by how well it all fell together. I have been a fan of Kevin Smith's work since Clerks. I am proud to report that it is great to see a large number of Smith's former characters return to this final installment of the Jay and Silent Bob anthology. IT has a fast pace and the cameos are superb. From Carrie Fisher as a nun (truly great) to George Carlin as a h**d giving hitchhiker to Shannen Doherty as Herself on the set of Scream 4 (perish the thought) you'll love all the appearances. It is sad that Shannen Doherty couldn't return as Rene from Mallrats, but it is good to see her back in the Smith world! Look for some good View Askew humour and good jabs at Mallrats and Chasing Amy. Its really a lot of fun! I hope you enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Amusing but nowhere near entertaining","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had its moments of laughter. But basically most of the jokes were centered around the ideas of the last Kevin Smith films. Nothing here was really origonal. I enjoyed the premise but midway through the film it just trailed of. It went a completley different way, not focusing on what the movie was really about. I thought all the movie references were well done and Will Ferrel had some great comic scenes. But for the most part the humor got old. The same stuff was used over and over again, and i just got tired of it. "},{"Title":"Not for the kids, but definitely for the fans.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some of my fellow J&SB fans said that Clerks was the best and the bar was getting lower and lower all the time. Others believed their movies were getting better and better. Still others said Chasing Amy was the closest they got to a real movie. All of us were at the premiere, and here's what we saw.First, this movie isn't for kids. There's more profanity than in South Park or an 80's Eddie Murphy standup routine. There're also more homosexual-bashing jokes than I expected, to the point that I cannot remember a single scene that didn't have one.That being said, this is also one of the funniest movies since American Pie or Road Trip, with good reason. Kevin Smith has asked, begged, cajoled, and blackmailed his friends into appearing in the film, and several times they actually poked fun at themselves about it. Cameos include actors from both American Pie & Road Trip, as well as all the previous J&SB movies, some playing multiple roles. Smith lets himself laugh at Hollywood in general and some of his favorite movies in particular. The good thing is that almost all of his humor can be taken strictly as jokes, with very little of it possibly being taken as insulting or offensive.The performances were incredible. Everyone really got into their roles and seemed to have a lot of fun with this film, especially as evidenced by the closing scenes. And as with all Smith movies, wait through the credits - you don't want to miss anything.Overall, while I thought Chasing Amy & Dogma had better stories, J&SB Strike Back definitely makes you laugh from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"A sequel to all other Kevin Smith movies, but not as good as any of them!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of these days, somebody needs to give Kevin Smith an award of some sort for bringing the fun back into movies.  When that day comes, I would be the first in line to support it, but it definitely wouldn't be for movies like this.  I suppose that if you keep making movies long enough, a really bad one is doomed to happen, but Kevin Smith should know better than this, and it's pretty sad to see something this stupid come from such a creative mind. While the plot involves Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) traveling to Hollywood to keep a new movie about them from being made, it seemed like the plot was more of an elaborate excuse to throw in all of the old characters from Smith's previous movies.  Don't get me wrong now, Smith has had some great characters in the past, but cramming them all into one movie just isn't the right way to go about creating another good movie. Smith used just about every bad movie technique ever conceived of, except copying the fight scene from the Matrix, and it gets a little depressing at times.Perhaps the most ironic portion of the entire movie is that Jay and Silent Bob get very upset when they learn that people all over the world are writing nasty things about them on the internet.  If they thought there were a lot of bad things going around before, I can't wait to see what people are saying about them after this gets seen by a few people.  This is really one case where it seemed that Smith needed to make another movie but had no real good ideas for one.  He relied far too heavily on old characters instead of creating new ones, and far too much on Jason Mewes' potty mouth to carry them through a tough scene.  Instead of creating another memorable scene for the ages, he often relied on stupid one-liners or a celebrity cameo by one of his old friends.  There were quite a few funny moments scattered throughout the movie, but it didn't have quite the same feeling that Clerks or Dogma had going for them.  That said, it definitely made me want to watch Clerks again, and there was a very classic scene from Good Will Hunting 2, but there just wasn't enough to justify a whole movie.  I would like to say that Smith did an excellent of job of getting Ali Larter, Eliza Dushku and Shannon Elizabeth into tight leather, which would make for some excellent wallpaper on your computer.  For that we can be eternally grateful, but again, there just wasn't enough for a whole movie.  It was nice seeing Jason Biggs talk about his American Pie days, seeing what Scooby Doo has been up to lately, seeing Mark Hamill in a new role, and Shannon Elizabeth being referred to as Booboo Kitty F-ck, but there were just way too many things done wrong to compete with Smith's earlier work.  If you are new to the Jay and Silent Bob movies, this is definitely not the place to start as it feels more like a sequel to all of their other movies, rather than a movie of it's own.  If you absolutely love Kevin Smith, then you will easily find enough to keep you laughing, but it's nowhere near as good as his older stuff.  "},{"Title":"The Culmination of Kevin Smith's Work","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has become known as a film-maker who appeals to the audience by both making realistic believable characters and by pandering to the audience's love of pop culture. In Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back he does both with more style, panache and creativity than he had before. In this latest installment in the ViewAskewniverse, familiar characters Jay and Silent Bob travel to Hollywood to stop about a movie about them being made, so people who are trashing the movie on-line will stop trashing them. Along the way they meet a curious cast of characters, including a live-action Scooby Gang, most of the characters from their past adventures (Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy), and a host of celebrities in well written and very funny cameos. The comedy is fast and furious, as both references to these movies and many other facets of pop culture are made. Whether you are a long standing fan of Smith, or if this your first film, you will be thoroughly entertained. "},{"Title":"Too much of a good thing? NEVER!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  More penis, fart and homosexual jokes packed into 90 minutes than you could ever imagine. On second thought... if you've seen any of Kevin Smith's films you probably could imagine. Jay's endless dialogue of ill taste may try the casual viewers' patience or delight fans of the duo to no end. The narrative follows Jay and Silent Bob as they attempt to get to Hollywood to stop the film being made off their comic book alter-egos, however the thrill of this movie is in all the cameos (Mark Hamill's is priceless) and returning characters from Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy. A must see for fans. "},{"Title":"A Kevin Smith Party on the Big Screen","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, now I am one of those jerks on the internet talking about Jay and Silent Bob.  But I am not talking trash about Silent Bob or his movie. Loved it, loved it, loved it.  This was the most I have laughed at a movie in a long time.  I think anyone with a good sense of humor will like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back but it was an especially satisfying movie for us long time fans.  Of all of Smith's movies this one had the most inside jokes and gags for those in the know.  More Ben Affleck Matt Damon jokes.  More references to Clerks Dogma and Chasing Amy.  Mall Rats got its nods.  More old friends from former movies.  This movie did a great job tying up all the fun of the first 4 movies into a package that cracked me up.  It was great. Props to Jay for playing an adorable leading man.  I didn't think he could pull it off but it somehow worked.  Awesome flick.   "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad Kevin Smith movie","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit, I was a little disappointed in J&SBSB. Although there were some genuinely laugh-out loud funny moments, the whole movie lent itself to the idea that Kevin Smith has sold out- hard. Where are the Kevin Smith-style conversations and dialogues of his four other films? Not to be found in this movie. Instead, he chose to go with sendups of many pop-culture elements, so much so that you're dreading yet another Matrix bullet-time moment (there wasn't one in this movie, thank god). All in all, I think this movie was more like other teen comedies like Scary Movie than Clerks, Mallrats, Casing Amy, or Dogma. One thing I will say, though having every one of the main characters of his other films as bit parts is a really funny concept. I say go see it, but be prepared to come out with lowered standards for Kevin Smith.P.S. Stick around after the credits to see that lady again. "},{"Title":"The FUNNIEST movie of the YEAR!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to take my hat off to Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes and the whole lot at View Askew. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was hands down the best movie of the summer, if not the entire year. There was so many jokes and sight gags in the flick, you'll have to watch it 5 times to acknowledge them all. It honestly takes a lot for a movie to get me to actually laugh out loud, and this one delivered again and again. I work in the theatre business, and sadly enough, it's a fact that it's a rarity for movie-goers to stay for the entire ending credits these days. Not with Jay and Silent Bob though, as at least 80% of the audience stayed until the lights went up. That's an attribute as to just how good this movie was. The audience was clapping and laughing for 90 minutes straight. You must see this movie...repeatedly.  "}{"Title":"Go see this film opening weekend!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to catch Saturday August 18th's sneak preview of the film, and it's terrific. You will laugh heartily and feel your money was well spent whether or not you know these characters from Smith's other four Jersey films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma).I'll be back in theaters on the 24th.  Hope you're there too! "},{"Title":"The final adventure of Jay & Silent Bob is an incredibly worthy film.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Thanks to Miramax's 1000-screen preview on the Saturday before it opens, I have the opportunity to speak my mind on the film. It will rule you. Kevin Smith pulls out all the stops this time, in the same wacky vein as Mallrats, but far tighter, not letting a moment go by without seizing it. The lengthy monologues are cut down a bit (mostly due to the main characters--**Silent** Bob and Jay, who can't speak a sentence above an eighth-grade level), leaving the space to be filled by humor. Not that Smith's rambling style is gone, every main character gets at least one chance to rant a bit, even to the point of Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) taking the words out of Smith the real life director's mouth. The film, though a bit madcap, is solid, however. Smith plays the audience like a piano, and the audience will love it. "},{"Title":"Never have I had a more fun time watching a movie.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit it, I am a Kevin Smith junkie.  I have seen all his movies over 10 times, listened to the commentaries multiple times, and have spent hundreds of dollars on Askew related merchandise.  I have been anticipating this movie since it was first announced back in November, and wow, the movie surpassed my extremely high expectations.The plot centers around Jay and Silent Bob as they make their way to Hollywood to stop a movie based on their comic book alter-egos, Bluntman and Chronic, from being made because people are bashing them on the internet. Along the way they meet Jewel Thieves, a monkey named Suzanne, a wildlife marshal, and the most celebrity cameos I have ever seen in a movie.  What one has to realize going into this movie though, is that the plot is there only to give purpose.  This movie is basically laugh after laugh after laugh.  And the audience was just loving it.  I missed about half the lines in the movie due to the audiences laughter and my own.  I won't spoil any of the jokes in the movie, because then the movie won't be as fun.  It does help a lot if you have seen the first three Smith movies (Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy), because there are many many many references to them, and seeing all the characters on the screen together for one last movie was a joy.  However, there are enough laughs to keep those who haven't seen the other movies entertained, and they may also enjoy seeing some people laugh at seemingly normal things you wouldn't call funny.I have personally never had so much fun watching a movie in a movie theater, and this is a more then worthy conclusion to Smith's Jersey Chronicles. Rating 10/10PS Stay all the way through the credits.  You'll see a disclaimer that's as funny as anything in the movie, and you'll see another celebrity cameo that is worth waiting for. "},{"Title":"Only one word to describe this movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great, Awesome, Excellent, stupendous, superb.  Well none of those is the word.  SNOOGANS.  This is one of the better movies that I have seen all summer.  Being a true Kevin Smith fan that I am has absolutely nothing to do with it.  I think that the way the cast poked fun at themselves is awesome. I.E. Ben affleck and code 1007/1082 (it gets changed around in the flick) or even both affleck and damon with the good will hunting parody.  Also Biggs and Vanderbeek (or however you spell it) pointing out the follies of there career.  It was just great.  We get to see the story of how Jay and silent bob met.  The only bad part to this movie is that, aside from the animated feature coming out next year, this will be the last that we see from the jersey trilogy characters.  which is a sad sad thing.  Oh well, looking forward to Fletch Won which hopefully star a great actor that Kevin actually founded.  Jason Lee is supposed to have signed on to this movie which is the next Kevin Smith movie.   SNOOTCH TO THE NOOTCH! "},{"Title":"Commentary on all that is Hollywood...sort of","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though not as intellectually humorous as Kevin Smith's previous work, it is equally funny.  This movie appears to the 15 year old boy living in each of us.  Since the movie is so completely unrealistic, it would be silly to analyze or critique acting, plot, and other cinematic devices, which is, I think, Mr. Smith's point.  Considered a modern master by some, Smith is at the top of his game in this montage of cameos and intertwining plots. Though it is an obvious commentary on Hollywood and pop culture, it is impossible to take this movie too seriously, which is the point of the whole movie.  Though the easily offended should stay away, this movie is not to be missed by fans of Kevin Smith, or fans of movies in general.  Simply put, it is funny, lighthearted movie and well worth the eight bucks.  "},{"Title":"Thanks, Kevin!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Granted, it's not the height of thought provoking cinema or any sort of Oscar nomination, (but after Blame Canada from South Park getting one, Jay's version of Jungle Love may have a shot.)  this movie is an amazing thank you to anyone who has been with the Jersey Chronicles from the beginning.  Of course, in that case, I don't need to tell you to go see it.  The running jokes and familiar characters, plus the constant laughs make this a great movie.  Anybody want a chocolate covered pretzel?  "},{"Title":"Fitting Finale","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is undoubtedly a tough movie to watch for non-Kevin Smith fans; there's enough humor in the movie derived solely from past films to dissuade non-fans from enjoying this movie. But for those in the know, this is a fairly enjoyable breezy film. Unlike Dogma and Chasing Amy, this movie has no message; it has no serious side to it. It's a spoof-filled, parodying movie that comes off half-Airplane, half-Road Trip.Kevin Smith lined up an impressive array of talent, and Ben Affleck deserves kudos as being completely self-effacing. Shannon Elizabeth proves herself to be an odd actress, with the glimmer of intelligence that the Wayans brothers and Smith himself both reported during the casting process hiding behind roiles that only allow her to play dummies.Other cameos worth noting are Marc Blucas, Deidrich Bader, Judd Nelson, Carrie Fisher, Jamie Kennedy, and Mark Hamill. Chris Rock isn't as funny as he could be, but he parodies Spike Lee pretty well. Well worth it if you dig Hollywood inside jokes and Kevin Smith movies, but of questionable value if you don't. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I like Kevin Smith's work and this is a really good flick. Saw this at a preview and the audience was in tears from the start to finish. Not only are there great laughs, but it is a clever movie. Really in the tradition of Blazing Saddles and some other comedy classics. Jay (Jason Mewes) and Bob (Kevin Smith), neither of whom are formally actors, are incredible throughout.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Definitely made for his fans, this was probably Kevin Smith's best work yet. Loaded with the expected inside jokes, but enough other stuff to appeal to those unfamiliar with his work.  It's great to see someone who can not only make fun of others (Affleck, Damon, Miramax and more) but also himself. "},{"Title":"Too Intelligent For It's Own Good?","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps the most beloved characters from Kevin Smith's Jersey Trilogy films (this marks the 5th such film, by the way) are Jay and Silent Bob, one a foul-mouthed horny pervert, the other a silent, apparently thoughtful one who for some reason puts up with the other's verbal abuse.  If I need to introduce these characters any further, do NOT see this movie.The humor in this film is, in typical Smith fashion, pretty evenly split between foul and smart; most of it is either good-natured roasting of Miramax Studios and Smith & his films, or in-jokes between the characters of all of Smith's films, all of whom make at least a cameo in the film.  The entire film is just oozing with pop-culture, featuring references and parodies of films ranging from E.T. to American Pie; music references include everything from N.W.A. to Morris Day & The Time.The film quickly allows itself to become a game of counting pop-culture references, which is more fun than keeping up with the story, because there really isn't any.  What little plot there is concerns Jay and Silent Bob's discovery of a movie being made about them, and them going to Hollywood to stop it, wanting to get paid and, when they find out about the Internet and people on film site message boards talking trash, protect their reputation.  The plot goes all over the place from there, and everywhere our heros go, the pop-culture references are sure to follow, and the game of keeping track of them continues.As much as I enjoyed this film, only a few people were laughing at what I thought were the best jokes, and the reason for this is simple they don't get it.  Kevin Smith made this film for his rabid fans and fellow film geeks.  There is a little bit of slapstick and bathroom humor, but not enough to appease a mainstream audience.  Smith's use of self-parody is especially great, but if one doesn't have intimate knowledge of all of Smith's movies, the tons of in-jokes simply won't make any sense to them, and they'll end up disappointed. "}{"Title":"A wonderful end to the New Jersey Saga","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, this was one of the most anticipated movies of the summer, at least it was for me.  And I got to see the sneak preview last night.  I must say that this is my favorite movie from Kevin Smith.  It had the genius timing of Clerks, the hilarious slapstick from Mallrats, the abundance of gay jokes (which will be criticized) as from Chasing Amy, and a large cast of superstars inspired by Dogma.  This is indeed the ultimate Kevin Smith Movie.However, you may realize that by referencing all of his previous films, much of the Humor of Jay and Silent Bob may be lost.  So do not see this movie and say how stupid it was, because you will have no frame of reference. Please see Clerks, and Mallrats, etc. first.From the opening to closing credits, I stayed right in my seat.  The film keeps you on a constant high of laughs and gags.  This is the first movie that I've seen in a long time that kept me laughing for 2 straight hours. Remember how Jay would always interrupt a serious conversation with a great line in the previous films.  Every conversation is set up like that.I was even happy to see elements of the excellent, but under acclaimed, Clerks the Animated series tied into this film.  Especially Jay getting himself wound up in his own stupidity.Please see this excellent film, it is worth it just for a brief but hilarious Mark Hamil Cameo. "},{"Title":"pretty good, not bad, can't complain","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lacks the story of Dogma, but hey, a mediocre Jay and Silent Bob movie is still funnier than the best of Paulie Shore. They try to rely too much on insider jokes. Some of the cameos could have been lost(Good Will Hunting 2). Lay back and enjoy watching Americas favorite hetero stoner life mates. "},{"Title":"You've got to see this movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We saw this movie last night at a sneak preview. The theater was only half full, which is not unusual for our area where people are not big Kevin Smith fans. There was wild cheering when the opening credits rolled, and again each time a favorite character came on screen for the first time. This was one of Kevin's funniest movies ever! We did not stop laughing, and even missed a few one-liners because everyone was laughing. Since this is supposedly the last movie with Jay and Silent Bob, we saw a few people that we haven't seen for a while....Go see it! It was the funniest movie I've seen in a long time! "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Of The Summer","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to a sneak preview of this movie last night (17 AUG 01) and I have to admit it was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  This movie should do Some serious bank.  If you are a fan of Kevin Smith's movies then this last installment of the View Askew series is a must see.  It was great to see a whole  movie devoted to the characters Jay and Silent Bob who were previously seen only in small parts of Smith's films (Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy) as well as their appearance in Dogma.Jason Mewes (Jay) and Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) have great chemistry on screen and this picture is non stop laughs, even the credits are worth hanging around for.  Check out this outstanding comedy even if you havent seen any of Smith's previous works. "},{"Title":"Knock down that fourth wall with a wrecking ball!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  See this movie.  Not because it's pee-your-pants funny.  Not to witness Kevin Smith's astounding maturity both as a technical director and as an actor.  But because it's that rare breed of film a movie the likes of which you have never seen.  This is a new type of comedy, a 90 minute wink at the audience.  And it works.  If more filmmakers and actors took the approach to image and self-consciousness that Kevin Smith and his devoted entourage do, what a wonderful Hollywood we would have! "},{"Title":"Hee heeeeee!  What a way to go...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith retires his View Askewniverse characters from Leonardo, New Jersey with a great tribute to all of them.  You don't need to have seen the previous films to enjoy the movie, but it will boost the laughs another 33%.  It also helps if you've seen Good Will Hunting, watched the Cartoon Network, and have a passing acquaintance with Star Wars, teen tv and movies and most of the box office hits of the past 30 years.  I lost count of how many of them Kevin lampoons, sweetly, of course.  Despite the obvious front layer of scatological humor, Kevin's films really are pretty sweet deep down.  As my significant other said it's a guy flick - but she was laughing almost  as often and hard as I was, and hasn't yet seen Clerks, Amy or Dogma - I managed to cram in synopses on the drive over.  The characters are all then need to be to feed situations and straight lines to Jay and Silent Bob, in that respect it's a sort of Blues Brothers, but substitute a couple of aimless stoners for Jake & Elwood.  Like a true comic book maven, Kevin includes an origins piece, and much to his credit - this tells you how much respect he's garnered - some very self-effacing cameos from all corners of media.  Don't know what he'll do next, but it's hard to imagine another production without Kevin/Silent Bob mugging it up under his own direction - and realize what a feat that is - to direct a coherent film that you yourself are in 90% of the shots! Thanks, Kevin - for this graduation present! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw a special preview of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and I have never laughed so hard in my life!  You have to be a fan of all Kevin Smith films to really get the jokes in this one, I think.  If you haven't seen any of Kevin Smiths previous films, you should before you see Jay and Silent Bob. I will be back every weekend to see this film and I will buy it the first day it comes out on DVD.  This film is worth your time and money. "},{"Title":"the best movie ive seen this summer and another classic from kevin smith","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i saw this movie last night at a sneak preview at my local movie theatre, and, being a huge kevin smith fan i went in with nothing but big expectations. and i wasnt let down. 'jay and silent bob strike back' is the final New Jersey Jay and Silent Bob movie the Kevin Smith plans to do, and he ended the series very nicely. the trailer for the movie makes it look overly childish, and while it is childishly funny, its also very witty and clever, so whether or not youre a fan of kevin smith or not see this movie and you wont be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Es mui bueno","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was brilliant. If you are a Kevin Smith fan, then I don't need to tell you to see it. If you aren't familiar with his movies, go out and watch them before the 24th, the day on which you should try to see this. The visuals were no where near as bad as Smith has a reputation for, so that will be one less thing for the non-believers to bitch about. Also, Jason Mewes' performance was hilarious. if you watch clerks before this, you'll be able to see two totally different actors who just happen to have the same name. i didn't give it a 10 because a couple scenes were a little more cliched then you would expect from a writer as good as Smith. Overall, though, very funny film. Definately worth the $9 or whatever you have to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, non-stop fun- a fitting farewell for Jay & Silent Bob","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, Kevin Smith's movies are somewhat raunchy, and laden with foul language and drug references.  But he's one of the most hilariously off-beat writers to come along in a long while, and it's still refreshing to see Jay & Silent Bob on the big screen.  The real paradox is that Smith manages to write some of the most verbally complex and even philosophically astute dialogue in Hollywood today, while still tossing out countless, as he puts it, d**k & fart jokes.  If you go for a bathroom break during this flick, you'll probably miss at least two cameos by very recognizable Hollywood stars, so make sure you've taken care of business before the previews start. There are also plenty of tributes to other movies, including references to each of Smith's first four New Jersey Chronicles.  For those unfamiliar with Jay & Silent Bob, some of those references will go unnoticed, but even newbies will bust a gut watching this movie.   "}{"Title":"it's for Smith fans, but perfect for them","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, this one is for the fans....but that should not stop you if you've never seen Kevin Smith. Rather, go out and rent Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. See them before you go. Is it self referential and indulgent? Yes. But so are The Simpsons and Galaxy Quest, but they are also both great social commentary worth watching, and as funny as hell the more references you get.Smith is doing what Woody Allen used to long, long ago. Make some of the best, funniest, most telling humor of his age.Smith is a master without a pretentious bone in his body.  See this one after having endured the summer dung on film festival. It will end your summer on the best note possible. "},{"Title":"Very good movie, but the other four were better","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Kevin Smith since just after Chasing Amy came out. Jay and Bob Strike Back is a funny movie, actually extremely funny, but lacked the strong story the other four films had.All in all, I liked American Pie 2 much better.  Sorry, Kevin Smith.Mike  "},{"Title":"Funniest Flick In Years","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only thing that sucks about J&SBSB is that it will never be as funny as it was the first time. I had tears in my eyes most of the film, because it never lets up. This is Kevin Smith at his best, a constant barrage on your funny place. Jason Mewes takes Jay to new levels. It's all there; the pop references, the cameos, the references to the other View Askew films. This is Kevin Smith doing everything he ever thought about doing in a movie. When we were all kids, who DIDN'T want to get in a light saber fight? It's in there. It's all in there. when my brother and I left the theatre, it was kind of sad, knowing this is supposed to be the last fling for the whole New Jersey quintology gang. Like every KS movie, we'll repeat the lines, we'll buy the DVD, but you can never duplicate the magic of the first time. Especially not with this one. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen in ages","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In brief summery, a movie is being made about the comic Jay and Silent Bob were the basis for, and they are getting trashed on the internet.  Jay and Silent Bob then set out for Hollywood to stop the movie and save their good names.  The film is about the antics of their getting to Hollywood.This is probably one of the funniest movies I've seen in ages.  It has jokes throughout, and more jokes if you are familiar with the Kevin Smith's other films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma).  There are, however, enough jokes that even if you haven't seen his other works, you should get a lot of the jokes.Perhaps one of the funniest things is the use of breaking the 4th wall. It is only done a couple times in the movie, but they are so funny, that you almost wish there were more.  For instance, near the beginning, Holden McNeil (played by Ben Affleck) says A Jay and Silent Bob movie?  Who would pay to see that, at which point he turns and looks directly at the camera, and in turn, the audience.All-in-all, well worth the cost to see it in the theater. "},{"Title":"Great way to end the New Jersey saga","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While it may not be the best of the five films, it sure is a fun film to watch, especially if you've seen the previous four Kevin Smith movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma).  In fact, I'd recommend that you see the previous four movies before seeing this film, otherwise you may be missing out on many jokes.  It can be likened to seeing the last episode of Seinfeld without watching any of episodes beforehand.  The best thing about this movie was how it incorporated gags and characters from the other movies (e.g.- Matt Damon complaining to Ben Aflek that he dragged him into acting in Dogma, Dante shouting I wasn't even supposed to be here today! while being tortured by apes, a Buddy Jesus statue in a nun's car).  I won't spoil the plot, but if you liked any of the previous Kevin Smith movies, you owe it to yourself to see this last episode.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant but inclusive","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently was at a preview showing of this movie, and I will say that i am impressed but saddened. I am first saddend because this is the finally of the Jersey series, and the final time we will actually see some of our favorite characters. In a way the fact that this is a finally to a series, eliminates those who had not faollowed the series to begin with. JaSBSB was so packed full of in jokes that the average viewer may feel lost. A Kevin Smith fan like myself was able to enjoy the movie much more thoroughly than my girlfriend who had only seen Clerks and Dogma. She still enjoyed the movie, but left without the full appreciation I had. What I must say about kevin Smith is that he has matured so much in his directing skills that This was probably his best directed film to date. It is a shame most of the movie was a ploy to fit in guest stars and in jokes rather than the thought provoking dialouge Smith is known for. The guest stars and in jokes worked though. I was suprised at the fact that certain celebs actually had cameos (I am not going to spoil who). The plot actually works as an old fashioned buddy movie, and Smith is great at exploring the man to man relationship, just in JaSBSB it is not explored as deeply. It is an ending though, and unlike Seinfeld, The Jersey Series ends on a note which would fans leaving with a smile, but the average man scratching his head. Do you think your a fan? if so..... 7=.... did you laugh if yes you'll love it. If no watch all the Kevin Smith cannon then go see it. "},{"Title":"Kevin and Scott do it again!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into this film with very high expectations, I mean after Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma, you tend to have lofty expectations of a movie.  I'll be honest though when i say that i was expecting a let down with this movie...boy was i wrong, this movie is like a throwback to what Mallrats resembled, steering away from the dialogue driven style of Chasing Amy, Kevin went back to the slapstick no nonsense comedy that made Mallrats a classic...at times you wonder what the hell is wrong with Jay and Bob, but its ALWAYS funny...and if you are a TRU fan of the Kevin Smith movies, you will love all the cameos, and i don't me the Ben Affleck and George Carlin, I'm talking the return of Randal to a major part, the guy who played Rick Derris as a cop, the guy who played Cohee Lundin cursing off Baby Jay's mother, Hooper X, Trish the Dish, they were all thought of as great...all in all i say this was a great flick, this hometown boy gives it 2 thumbs up to Mr. Hometown himself...my only gripe, no TS Quint (Jeremy London) or Brandi Sphening (Claire Forlani) but thats something i won't lose sleep over. "},{"Title":"Give and Take","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was reading a post that Kevin Smith made on ViewAskew.com.  It said that the film Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, if his way of saying thanks to the people who have seen his movies and supported him  thoughout these last 8 and some odd years.  I saw the movie tonight at an advance screening in Indianapolis.  All I have to say is that WE should be thanking Kevin...AGAIN.  From the beginning to the very end (and I do mean very, after the credits is a little P.S.), I laughed so hard.  The story, as we all know, is that Jay and Silent Bob are trying to defend their good names by shutting down a movie version of Bluntman and Chronic.  That's as much of a story as you are going to get.  But let me tell you that if there was more of a story, it would only get in the way.  Kevin and Jason Mewes are absolutely hilarious in their final outing.  And the film does make a few jokes at Smith other movies, but a lot of the humor is based so that a complete idiot to the Askewniverse would kill themselves laughing.  So, Kevin Smith, from here on out, I'll be at every one of your films.  You are the best and freshest voices in cinema today.  And anyone who disagrees can go screw themselves in a very uncomfortable place. "},{"Title":"I love Kevin Smith, but this just wasnt that good","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been looking forward to this movie for so long and now I wish that I had not been so excited. It was missing something that Mallrats, Clerks, Chasing Amy and Dogma all had. Its not awful, just dont get excited like I did because you will be turned down. I want Kevin Smith to make another one to help me not think of this disappointment as his final. Also, **demi-spoiler** the worst part of the movie is when we find out Jay isnt all you might think he is, apparently he does have feelings.... I dunno, see it, dont let what I say affect your decision to see it. But, if you come out a little disappointed, I was the first to warn you. Final 5 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The grand finale of a great storyline","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a MUST for any Kevin Smith fan.  As sad as it is to see The Jersey Trilogy end, it's nice to see him go out on his own terms with a movie made for his fans.  The cameos alone are worth the price of admission, but the story line is hilarious.  This movie will go down as a well deserved classic for the ages. "}{"Title":"I hope Smith meant it as a symbol of our own misogyny and homophobia","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think I may be one of the few people who hated it. The theatre (near UCLA, and college men) was erupting with laughter at every fart joke, bimbo with big titties, titty joke, pot joke, penis joke, superhero posturing, gay bashing... and it's Kevin Smith so I took it to stride at first cause I know he's cool. But it just didn't stop and just didn't explain itself. No moral.Some parts were definitely funny, and you have to have watched the other 4 Smith films to understand them. Lots great guest appearances... But I've just lost my sense of humor for juvenile $%&#, and I (may be the only one who) thought this movie was full of it.It really isn't just Jay doing all the tits and fart/gay jokes- all the characters do. The only redemption occurs in a moment where James Van Der Beek accuses Jason Biggs of being a homophobe cause he always says that's so gay- but the scene ends with them both laughing about come on you know he likes his salami smoked or something. That's seriously the only moment in the movie a character is called on gay jokes.And women-objectifying- only once a character (Shannon Elizabeth) says (to Jay) you know women don't like to be called that, call them something more respectful and he says what, like Boo boo kitty f**k? and she smiles and goes that's a start! and for the rest of the movie that's her name.I think all Smith's movies were well-written, but he gives his voice to more or less every character (besides Jay, they have the same manner of speaking, adding SAT vocab words here and there).I wouldn't see it again, I can't say the same for Smith's dick and fart joke-loving fans. "},{"Title":"A Great Achievement by Kevin Smith!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was awesome! If you are a fan of Kevin Smith's you will definitely want to see this episode in the Jay and Silent Bob series. It has some classic moments and definitely pays a fine tribute to all things that are Jay and Silent Bob. The best things about the movie I don't think I should spill. I will warn you that if you haven't seen many of the other movies then you may not get a lot of the jokes. I ended up seeing the movie at a sneak preview and right now I can't wait for it to open. And yes I will admit the story may drift plotwise but then so did most of the other films (clerks may be a little more of an exception but it still did). The cinematography and editing may feel a little closer to dogma then to mallrats or clerks but it is definitely a step above. It is in my opinion a great way to end the series! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw the movie tonight at a sold out sneak preview, and it was really great. I think this is a great comedy, and a lot of the material seems very fresh compared to the other teen comedies. The gags are great, and the women are hot, and tons of bad words. I think that Kevin Smith got to make the movie  his way. The cameos were great, and it's about time someone made fun of all the crappie teen movies... But hey, they make fun of themselves, so no hurt feelings.But I got one thing to say, what's up with people leaving comments that give away most of the movie, I mean come on, if you want to insure the success of what a movie deserves don't do it, just because you got to see it before everyone else doesn't mean you should ruin it for everyone. I think this movie deserves to make a lot of money, taking that some of Kevin Smith's other films didn't make as much as they should have!  "},{"Title":"Extremely funny, even for non-Kevin Smith fans","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of the comments I've seen on the film on the Web so far are from Smith's fans.  I'm not a particular fan, though I liked Chasing Amy a lot. But J&SBSB reaches well beyond Smith's fan base to touch the adolescent in all of us.  Don't get the wrong idea, it's more than 'dick & fart' jokes -- it's also gay jokes -- lots of gay jokes.  More than that, it's a total send-up of Hollywood, particularly Miramax and it's image.  (I half expected cameos from the Weinsteins.)  The inside Hollywood jokes (which outnumber the crude jokes 51) will resonate with anyone who has seen any of the dozen movies they skewer during the course of J&SBSB.The movie should stand up to (and almost REQUIRES) multiple viewings, due to the pace of the dialog once the not-so-dynamic-duo actually get to hollywood -- which does take too long (my only complaint).IMHO, the funniest moments are provided by Matt Damon & Ben Affleck, as themselves making fun of each other's movie role choices, Chris Rock as the director of the Bluntman & Chronic movie, most of the cameos, and the several instances when the actors 'break the 4th wall' to question the intelligence of the audience or, in a particularly hilarious sequence, wreak vengence upon Internet geeks to would dare to say something negative about J&SB.Pretty much anyone with a decent sense of humor, or a humorous sense of decency, should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Potential Flop Turns into One Huge, Fantastic Inside Joke","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had my reservations...I admit it.  I thought, This could really suck. They've already gone and given away the funniest parts in the previews (a la Scary Movie).  But after seeing tonight's Sneak Preview with 400 other screaming Kevin Smith fans, I am *SO* glad I was wrong.  This is a must see for any Mewes/Smith fan, and even novice watchers will enjoy the humor, especially after they see the previous four major releases and Smith's lesser known works.  Hats off to Affleck, Damon, Elizabeth, Dushku, and others I will *NOT* give away (those people who give away movie secrets should be beaten, repeatedly) for being able to poke fun at themselves. When it hits nationwide next weekend, be sure to take several of your closest friends *AND* an unsuspecting authority figure...you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Excellent finale to the View Askewniverse","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay And Silent Bob Strike back may be one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, but as a View Askew fan in general, it meant a bit more. Kevin absolutely made this film with his fans in mind (1/2 of the jokes aren't as funny if you haven't seen any of his other films), a just bookend to his family of five movies starring the stoner, Jay, and his lifemate Silent Bob. Beware avoid if d!ck and fart jokes offend you. "},{"Title":"Great for any die hard Kevin Smith movie fan.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to go see the sneak preview of the movie tonight.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back(we can just call is JSBSB for now) was a great movie for all Jay and Silent Bob fans.  If you decide to come into this movie not having seen any of the previous Kevin Smith movies(Clerks, Mallrats, Dogma, Chasing Amy....) you are really going to loose out on a lot of the movie. Practically the entire movie consists of inside jokes with previous Kevin Smith movies.  It is very funny.  However, you might not like it as much or wonder why everyone else is laughing if you haven't seen the previous movies.  It's definitely a movie that you must see more than once to get either all the jokes because you were laughing too hard or because you just blatantly missed them.  So go see Jay and Silent Bob Strike back in a theater near you.  I recommend having seen at least one of the movies they star in preferably Mall Rats or Clerks.  But...That's just my opinion.  The cast is probably the best I've ever seen.  I hope you enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Funny Moive!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has a very thin plot that is not followed hardly at all it has absolutely no depth do it what so ever as did some of smiths earlier films but none the less this movie made me laugh until it hurt! And I have to say to all of you people out there that say this is a bad movie because it has no plot or whatever, HEY! If you wanted to be moved by a movie and you wanted something that really made you think then go rent American beauty or some other move that is intended to do so! In case some of you forgot you go to a comedy to laugh not to be thrown into deep though I mean hell you know it is a movie about 2 pot heads, if you think that you are going to a movie about pot heads that is Oscar worthy think again! Anyway back to the movie, it is just a comedy a flat out well done over the top funnier then hell almost made me p*** my pants funny movie! Even if you have never heard of jay and silent bob go see it I mean my friend who has never seen a Kevin Smith movie before was laughing her ass off and wants to go see it again when it comes out because we missed so much of the dialog because every one was laughing so hard! GO SEE IT! It is worth it!  "},{"Title":"Best comedy this summer...not a tough feat, but still...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Self referential and full of in jokes, JASBSB is fun as hell.  Anyone who's a fan of Kevin Smith movies will see this regardless of what is posted about this film, so I suppose I'm wasting my breath and valuable server space. Good flick. "},{"Title":"The best View Askew movie yet!!!!!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just got back from the sneak preview and I am amazed. I went into this movie with pretty high expectations and it exceeded them. Kevin Smith brings together the cast members and characters from his previous View Askew movies and weaves them into a tapestry that pokes fun at itself, the movie industry and life as a whole. I haven't laughed this hard in years. Why are you reading my review, go see it, now!!!!! "}{"Title":"Good bye Jay and Silent Bob","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith. This man has changed my whole life. Since the first time I saw Clerks when I was just a young buck. His movies changed my whole perspective on many things. Now the View Askew chronicles are coming to an end. So Kevin decides to say good bye with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I saw this movie at the sneak preview and it was great. I was laughing non stop. Jason Mewes gives a great performance as usual. Kevin is quiet as usual. I think the performance that definitely deserves recognition was Ben Affleck. I personally think it is his best performance ever. I mean every one in the movie gave great performances but Affleck just stood out a little for me. Man I am going to miss watching Jay and Silent Bob. I dont really want to give any of the movie away so i wont mention anything about it except that it is funny. You know what instead of reading this get up and go watch it. It's great.  "},{"Title":"most laughs ever and funniest of Kevin Smith's films","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny nearly the whole way through. It helps to have seen Kevin Smith's other films. Lots of in jokes and references to 70's, 80's & 90's culture. Wow does Jay have a mouth on him! If you haven't seen a Jay & Silent Bob film beware very amusing but foul language. "},{"Title":"Woah!  VA FANS!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just got back from a sneak preview, and lemme tell you VA fans, it was GREAT!  If you have seen any of the other four movies, and you at least somewhat enjoyed them, prepare yourself for this flick, cause it was BLUNT-tastic! "},{"Title":"The best of the Jersey flicks","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw the movie at a sneak preview and the movie was so funny and Jason Mewes(JAY) is the stand out star delivering hilarious lines.  Most of the characters from the previous films are back which makes the movie great and exciting to watch. A must see, i almost p***ed my pants during the scene where Jay talks about the Clit. See it. "},{"Title":"The best film ever made.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was fortunate to catch this film in a special sneak preview on August 18, 2001, and man-oh-man-oh-man has it been worth the wait!!! I, like many, am a huge fan of Kevin Smith's work. I watch the other films and the Clerks cartoons on a near-daily basis and always find some new reason to love each even more (even Mallrats you dumb critics--that movie is FUNNY), but this movie is the best of the bunch. Throw out Chris Rock's tired, boring, very un-shocking f*** whitey bulls*** and you have a PERFECT movie. New additions to Smith's wacky world, notably Eliza Dushku (who rules in this), Shannon Elizabeth (very good here), and Will Ferrell (the guy makes ME laugh) are very welcome, as are all the cameos, plus ALL the Smith favorites from past films are represented. Throw in a really good soundtrack, a groovy performance by Morris Day and The Time, and a hilarious ape, and you've got JASBSB. Jason Mewes' performance is Oscar-worth, if Oscar meant ANYTHING at all and would actually add a comedy category. C'est la vie, right? Smith, as an actor, also puts in a work of genius here. I could rave for hours about each actor/character/scene, but I'll save that torture for my friends and spare the IMDB audience. The only other thing I have to say is this go see this movie at all costs, no matter what your opinion of Smith and his past efforts is. Then go see it again. "},{"Title":"Irreverent Slapstick(tastefully done)","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has managed to use profanity and poor taste in the most charming of fashions once again and we should be grateful for this. We need more heroes that are total screw-ups. Their off-color triumphs should be inspiration for us all. Thanks Kev. I'll see you around. "},{"Title":"The best movie since sliced bread!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? I am a HUGE Kevin Smith fan, and expected another instant classic from the writer/director of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.  I was not disappointed.  What makes Kevin Smith's movies so good is that he doesn't rely on cheap sight gags like other teen comedies, he writes brilliantly clever dialogue that leaves everyone rolling in the aisles with laughter.  Along with the rest of the fans at the sneak preview, I laughed for two hours straight.  In this road comedy, every scene is packed with laughter and one great cameo after another.  This movie follows two stoners, Jay and Silent Bob, on a trek to stop a movie about them from being made. With unforgettable stops along the way, especially smoking up in the Scooby Doo Mystery Van, this is the funniest movie in years! The cast in this movie is so packed, its hard to think of anyone that isn't in it.  With EVERYONE from all of Kevin Smith's past movies there are so many great characters that are woven into the story.  Thankfully many loose ends are tied up from past movies, like the monkey in the end of Mallrats.  If you are a fan of Kevin Smith's movies or just like a great comedy, see this movie as soon as you can!         "},{"Title":"Weak, and only mildly funny","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie needed some serious re-writes.  Some of the comedy works, but much falls flat.  The Will Ferrel character is just lame.  The Jay and Silent Bob characters work best as supporting characters, not the leads.  Having enjoyed Smith's previous 4 films, I went into this movie with a lot of enthusiasm, but came away very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Comic Humor, Hollywood Sucks, Friends Rule, and its always funny to make fun of celebrities","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just checked out Kevin Smith's(Chasing Amy, Clerks)  latest film. Needless to say its a very, very funny movie. Mainly the movie is all about being funny even taking cracks at the audience, the film, and even the actors themselves. After being funny the movie is about trashing completley the suck corporateness of hollywood. But, if this movie is truly about anything its about friends. Friends Rule. Heck, the cast is made almost completely of Kevin Smith's friends that he has made in hollywood over the years. This movie is FUNNY. Go see it as soon as you get the chance. I beg of thee. Funny Funny Funny stuff. "},{"Title":"If You Like Jay And Silent Bob, You Will Love This Movie","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is for all us Kevin Smith fans who love all of his movies.  It brings back almost everyone from the first 4 movies and gives us more of Jay and Silent Bob.  The film is better if you know and understand the View Askew universe, but I'm sure is just as funny if you don't know it. 10 out of 10 stars, wonderful! "}{"Title":"Striking back without striking out.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While Hollywood was churning out bland cinematic drivel, a young filmmaker was busy hocking everything he owned to make his first movie.   Kevin Smith's Clerks was an unconventional low budget film whose insightful views, offbeat characters, and bizarre storyline enshrined him within the pantheon of independent moviemaking and spawned a legion of fans.  Smith's follow-up films, though unrelated, did have two low-key characters made cameos and provided comic relief   Jay the foul mouthed hormonally charged slacker and Silent Bob the mute sidekick (played by Smith himself).  The question is whether it is possible to construct an entire film around this dynamic duo.****************Caution  Possible Spoilers Ahead *********************Things are not going well for Jay and Silent Bob soon after being banned from hangin around the Quik Stop, they discover that Hollywood is making a movie based on characters based on them.  Their outrage is twofold  first because they've been cut out of the cash, but more importantly, a website devoted to movie gossip is predicting miserable failure for the film and is defaming them in particular.  Determined to save their names, they set out for Hollywood to stop the film from being made, and encounter some severely dysfunctional people along the way.After being deluged with hate mail for making  Dogma, Kevin Smith decided to return to his roots, and make another caustic, funny movie that people wouldn't take seriously and gave his two favorite characters center stage. The entire movie is essentially an in-joke - he specifically references his earlier movies dozens of times, lampoons Hollywood on every level, and has a great time doing it.  Smith makes no attempt to create a cohesive plot, as that would defeat the entire purpose of film which is to be as absurd as possible (in what other world would Shannon Elizabeth be attracted to a four letter spewing stoner?).  Adding to the fun are the numerous cameos - Chris Rock was my favorite - of which I quickly lost count.Although this is a watered down version of his earlier films, Smith's fans (I count myself among them) will enjoy this movie.  That said, I feel its necessary to issue this caveat - if you're not familiar with his films, or are sensitive to coarse or homophobic dialogue (done to show the ignorance of the character, but potentially offensive), check out America's Sweethearts instead.  This is not a movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I want to start off by saying that, yes, I am a huge fan of every film Kevin Smith has done.  More than that, I'm a fan of almost everything else he's done.  Comics, commentaries, soundtracks, even the Clerks cartoon.  (It was a lot better then anyone gave it credit for.)Many internet critics, even fans, have decided that Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back will only be found funny by those who are accquantied with other View Askew films; i.e. only hardcore fanboys (what we call ourselves) will get a kick out of this film.  After seeing an advance screening last night, though, I'd have to disagree whole-heartedly.True, many of the jokes and scenes in the flick have their basis in Smith's previous films but they are so simple, so basic that anyone can understand them.  Anyone can get them.  That's not to say everyone'll like them. Smith's brand of comedy does require a certain taste, but after you try it you're hooked.  There's no way a person can't laugh during this movie.The movie centers around Jay and Silent Bob, for the first time in any of Smith's films.  The two find out Miramax is making a movie based on their comic book alter-egos and that the royalties they usually recieve are not part of the deal.  They've been cut out completely.  On top of that, the duo discover the Internet and that opinionated youngsters are writing all sorts of crap about them.  Needless to say they're upset.  So they decide that the only logical thing to do is head for Hollywood and stop the production of the movie.Jay and Silent Bob are off and the audience settles in for a classic road movie, full of interesting characters and funnier situations the likes of which Hollywood hasn't seen in quite a while.  Some critics have decided that the plot is thin and maybe it is, but despite it's lack of substance the plot is always right there, ever-moving the picture forward.I have to say again that this movie is, from start to finish, the most most hilarious you'll see this summer; if not in the past few years.  Who am I kidding?  The past decade.  True, some of the jokes are gay related, the whole movie is, but those who chastise Smith for gay-bashing don't realize that the majority of the time the jokes are at the expense of the two main characters, even more often directed at Smith's Silent Bob.  So take it in stride.  Get the joke.I higly recommend seeing this picture.  It's great.  You'll never laugh as hard.  Even if you've never seen a View Askew movie or if you've seen them all and hate them all, see this movie.  It's a breath of fresh air in this summer of comedies that just don't live up to the original and action blockbusters that are so void they make the Grand Canyon look like an empty Dixey cup. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of the summer","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just went and saw the sneak Preview of Jay & Silent Bob Strike back!  It was one of the funniest movies I've seen in years.  If you like Kevin Smith Movies, you'll love this.  If you like movies with Cheesy rips on other movies, you'll love this.  If you hate swearing.... See Shrek. "},{"Title":"Easily the funniest of Smith's films","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Caught the first screening of the final, completed print in Austin yesterday and I've got to say that this is easily the funniest of Smith's films. I'm itching to see it again to catch the third of the dialog you couldn't hear because people were laughing so loudly.It didn't have the depth of Dogma or the character development of Chasing Amy, but it was just plain fun to watch.  It felt like a really top-notch Cheech and Chong movie with a slew of great cameos and a decent budget. You didn't really care where the plot was taking you, you just sat back and enjoyed being along for the ride. "},{"Title":"Not his greatest, but a laff riot nonetheless","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sad to hear that this is the last of Kevin Smith's Jersey flicks, because I love these characters and almost feel that I know them. For me, this film was on the same level as _Mallrats_ funny, definitely entertaining, worth buying on DVD, but not on the same level as _Clerks_, _Chasing Amy_, and _Dogma_. It *is* great to see so many of the old characters again. There are a lot of truly funny in-jokes for film lovers, and you get to see stars like Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, James Van Der Beek, and Jason Biggs goofing on themselves and each other (my personal favourites were Gus Van Sant's and Mark Hammill's self-mocking cameos), but there isn't much meaning. Even _Clerks_, for all its snarky witticisms, had something to say. You could also tell that Kevin Smith knows his fans are mostly young guys, judging by the overly-long Charlie's Angels-style segments. I guess I'm a little disappointed that this last hurrah lacked the delicate balance of comedy and depth seen in his best work. I don't know what I was thinking; it's Jay & Bob fercryinoutloud.  I'm still a major fan and can't wait to see what View Askew does next. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not great art, but go see it anyway","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Since I really enjoyed Kevin Smith's other films, I was more than pleased to see a pre-general-release screening of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back -- and since Smith apparently made this film for all his fans, he had a lot of other people to please as well.  Trying to please everyone also accounts for the film's somewhat chaotic script, which certainly places gags and in-jokes above the storyline.The same locker-room humor that spiced Smith's other films seems to have been strewn far too liberally, but the snickering and groans of disgust from the audience seems to say something else entirely.  Perhaps I am no longer the target audience.  I thought the first camera-nod at self-referential humor was funny, but the two (?) other times made me think that the film had been dumbed-down for a wider, younger audience.So JSBSB really has something for all Kevin Smith fans.A bit of trivia check the credits for Smith finally crediting himself as Silent Bob and Jason Mewes assistant being christened Mewes Wrangler. "},{"Title":"Snoochie Boochies!!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As one of the privileged few that got to see the sneak preview, I was EXTRA jazzed to see the latest addition to the askewnaverse. This movie did not disappoint!!! Tons of hilarious bits and nearly all Kevin Smith characters made an appearance. If you have EVER seen a Kevin Smith movie, see this at ONCE!!! I'm going again on premiere day (8/17). NOONCH!!! "},{"Title":"typical gags galore but oh so funny!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this at a special testscreening for my company. The audience was filled with people who clearly love Kevin Smith's previous work. Even though this movie was filled with typical gags and one liners it was great. Kevin Smith put his odd touch on every joke and made them new. I haven't seen a movie where I have constantly and consistently laughed this much in a very long time. A must for fans of the previous works. But be smart and don't take anyone who is offended by language or who doesn't like the other films. They will NOT like this movie. But I loved it! "},{"Title":"I suppose I should have expected more, but ...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a Kevin Smith movie, so you can expect a lot of narcissistic little touches, haphazard direction and an always surprisingly sentimental plotline. That and some of the best damn jokes around.  He's a funny guy and his jokes are always clever and surprising, and he's got a stylish knack for dialogue that puts him up there among the best screenwriters working today. He's no director, and he's no actor, but he's got that whole writing thing working for him. Jay and Silent Bob is really not a good movie.  There are a whole lot of eye-rollingly indulgent in jokes and references and it seems at times more like a Leslie Nielson-style spoof than a Kevin Smith movie.  Don't get me wrong, I'll take as many Ben Affleck jokes as I can get, and Charlie's Angels makes an ideal target, but the movie doesn't have enough laughs in it to be enjoyable.  It's not that funny.  Jay and Silent Bob are really getting old. I thought they were funny in high school, and their continued reappearance on the big screen would always provide a good amount of actual comedy.  But there's no excitement left.  Jason Mewes has a lot of energy, and that's fun to watch, but it would be nice to see him play off some real personalities like he did in their other movies. The movie's pretty much a waste of time and should be watched on video in a large, drunken group.  That's the way this film was meant to be watched. "},{"Title":"F***IN HALARIOUS","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was awesome. It is great ending to the Jersey Chronicles. Smith did great choosing to end it with the two guys that have been through it all. It had everybody in from American Pies Shannon Elizabeth to Wes Craven. Smith spared no expense on getting whom he wanted in this movie. The best part was when Mark Hammil pops in as the super-villain named COCKNOCKER. Smith makes the kinds of movies that may not win Oscars but keeps us moviegoers laughing our asses off. "}{"Title":"Nowhere as good as the rest","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a huge Kevin Smith fan, and I have to say that JSBSB was really bad. The plot is terribly thin, and consists mostly of gag jokes that are old news. The subject tends to stay on pot jokes and gay jokes, which get boring really quick. The funniest part of the movie was the hitchhikers bible, but I won't ruin it by telling you why. I think Jay and Silent Bob are better as side characters, even though I've loved them in every film before. Overall it had it's funny moments, but it was very disappointing, especially for the last of the series. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is a satiric genius!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to love and appreciate Kevin Smith's humor and fart jokes to enjoy this movie. This flick, being the last of the Jersey Series ties in every other movie Smith has done. And in a good way. Everything in this film is beautiful, from the cast to the energetic and brilliant dialogue. I have no complaints (being that Smith is my favorite Writer/Director)and encourage anyone to watch this movie...and Dogma, and Chasing Amy, and Mallrats, and Clerks. "},{"Title":"This movie is so gay.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was really funny and heartily  enjoyed in the audience I was in.  Specifically excellent moments were those in which Miramax and Ben Affleck are repeatedly made fun of.  Also all of the cameos are really funny.  If you like Kevin Smith's other films (and if you like the characters of Jay and Bob you will like this movie.  But if you don't like his other films, or haven't seen them, you probably won't get this film.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious funnier than all the others combined.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok first of all i was never a big fan of the other kevin smith movies. They were all 'ok'. So i wasn't expecting much when i went to see the movie preview. the same old type of one liners from mallrats at best.  And i was WRONG! this movie was funny funny and funny. it takes some of the formula used in scary movie by poking fun at everyone. Even the internet people who write about movies. i.e. All of us.  There are spoofs of so many movies and even tv shows.  There is an all star cast who each do their parts wonderfully.  From Afleck and Damon to Carlin and Chris Rock and even Wes Craven they all make this movie that much funnier.  Jay is hilarious with his antics similar to what he did in Dogma multiplied by 20.  If you need a serious laugh go watch this I saw it for free and would pay to see it 5 more times.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back Thursday night in Washington D.C. and before the movie started, we were forewarned that this was not the final print, the soundtrack had not been finalized and the credits (beginning and end) were temporary.   This was nothing new for me, when I saw American Pie 2 last week, the credits were not on that one either. I will try and not spoil this too much, but the movie starts with Jay and Silent Bob as kids outside their favorite convenience store.  One of their mothers starts cussing like crazy because a guy gives her a hard time for leaving her kids by themselves for a few minutes.  Kid Jay starts to cuss as soon as the mom walks away.  Then we jump to the present, again, in front of the convenience store and Jay and Silent Bob are hanging out and eventually get kicked off the property and arrested.  They find out that a movie is being made about their very successful comic, Bluntman and Chronic, and they have to find a way to get from New Jersey to Hollywood to stop the movie from being made.  Along the way of hitchhiking, we meet Justice (Shannon Elizabeth) and her gang of girls.  They turn out not to be who we think they really are.  When they end up in Colorado, Justice talks the guys into breaking into a place to steal a monkey.  The girls have another agenda which I won't spoil.  The guys make their way to Hollywood and the cops are out to find them because of this monkey they took.  They work their way into the set of their movie, and get themselves in the movie.  The funny part is they are shooting this movie without a script.  This leads to a fairly predicable ending but it was still hilarious.There are so many cameo's in this movie, I won't list them all because it would spoil it.  Silent Bob does speak a few lines.  There were times I was laughing so hard I almost cried.  The movie is 1 hr. 41 minutes long but it didn't seem like it.  This was the 3rd time it was screened in Washington D.C. but the other two screenings were daytime screenings.  When it does come out August 22nd, it will be well worth the wait.  The reasoning for the R rating is a lot of profanity.    "},{"Title":"A true culmination.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bridging everything good from his four prior films, Kevin Smith has achieved his highest ground with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  Infusing hyper-referential humor at every impasse, it's almost an homage to film as well as an appreciative gesture to the fans (and actors) whom have gotten Smith to where he is today.  While it's true that seeing the previous four of Smith's movies will help in understanding some of the comedy, the plot has enough going on where those patrons who aren't so firmly rooted in character development can still enjoy the follies of Jay and Silent Bob as they traverse the country.  Kevin Smith definitely has fun with this picture, incorporating his own inspirations and craftily bashing the Hollywood machine.  Extremely funny and a truly accomplished piece by Smith. "},{"Title":"Go see this movie!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the most fun movie I think I've ever seen!  You'll get a lot more of the inside humor if you're a fan of Kevin's, but even if you're a first timer this movie will make you LAUGH OUT LOUD!  I saw it at a test screening here in L.A. on July 24th, and it did extremely well with the audience, a ton of laughs.  At times you couldn't hear the dialogue because of the laughter from the previous joke.  Countless cameos, hilarious situations, Matt and Ben, JAY AND SILENT BOB!  If you're a fan or not, do yourself a favor and SEE THIS FILM!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's final View Askew outing is as hilarious as the rest, if not more so.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, I thought Kevin Smith wrapped up his New Jersey Chronicles quite well. This unsympathetic comedy targets everyone, even its distributor Miramax. The jokes may pass by some if they are not familiar with Smith's work, but should be enjoyed by many. Overall, this movie can best be described as a more risk-taking version of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, World. Parading celebrities and characters from his other films alike, Smith pays homage to all his previous works (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma) as well as films by Lucas and Spielburg. This is a comedy that guys between 15-30 will enjoy the most. Sex and drug jokes come from all directions ranging from slightly harmless to highly offensive. Think of it as a Mallrats 2, since Smith is already planning an animated Clerks film. The part of the movie that made me enjoy it so thoroughly was the hilarious Jason Mewes. Since his shorter collegue, Silent Bob, obviously doesn't speak, Mewes carries a lot of dialogue and does excellent work. You believe that this character isn't an actor, he must really act and talk the way he does in the film. "},{"Title":"A movie for his fans (All ten of 'em)","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a devoted Kevin Smith fan (and yes I know there are many of you out there in the internet world) you will love this movie -even though it is in part making fun of you.Almost all of the humor is based on the idea that you have seen his previous movies save for his tired old pop culture references (just to name a few Morris Day and the Time, Planet of the Apes, Star Wars, Jaws, Smoky.. etc.)But at its heart, that is all this movie is, a series of in-jokes and pop culture references. Gone are Smith's use of  witty dialogue and round characters- he has replaced them with slapstick comedy that makes Mallrats look like Schindler's List.Smith says that this will be Jay and Silent Bob's last feature and I couldn't be happier about that. His movies are at their best when they have as little of those two as possible. That duo almost ruined Chasing Amy and they maybe had 5 minutes of time in that one.  I seriously doubt that they will be retired however, I think he needs that crutch to carry him on his way. "},{"Title":"A good comedy, a good cast, not a great film","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel funny writing this see as the whole idea of the film is to mock the people who waste they're lives writing these things.  The movie is saying that the whole film world is messed up from the sets to the fans.  The whole thing is odd.  Sadly, unlike Dogma this topic can't hold the film to any serious moments, because if it did it would be harassing itself.  So as far as plot goes, go rent Smith's other great four films.  (Clerks, a wonderful look at America/ Mallrats, a flat out comedy never trying to be more, but very funny /Chasing Amy, a funny, and great look at love in the 90's & Dogma, the best look at religion ever in film).  Jay and Silent Bob, though, is an adult version of Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. All that aside, there are many funny moments in this film.  From trashing on Ben Affleck, to watching George Calin give go to 3rd base, to watching grow men beating up 14 yr. old boys, you will laugh even 10 min. I promise.  The part with Jason Biggs/James Van Break is genius.   But to wrap things up.  If your going to a comedy, go to this one.  If your going to see a Kevin Smith film, as a fan who owns his special edition DVDs, and reads his comedy, be prepared.  This is a summer film that mocks modern film, yet subscribes to its ways as much as American Pie 2 does. To end all this on the right note.  It's a million times better than Magnolia "}{"Title":"I was so lucky to be at an early screening","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always beeen a big fan of Kevin Smith's work so when I was able to go to an early screening of JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK, I could hardly contain myself. The preview you will probably see before SCARY MOVIE 2 only contains a few of the movies many hilarious scenes which I'm still laughing at. The movie is jammed with celebrity cameos, some of them are good and some of them just seem kind of forced, but that does not matter, all the cameos were funny anyway. The movie seemed to really want to push the envelope which isn't a complaint, just an observation. My only two complaints about the movie is that it seemed a little too long and could have had some more plot. I recommend this movie to all Kevin Smith fans or anyone who just likes to laugh. The critics probably won't like this movie to much, but I'm pretty sure most of the critics will love this movie just like I did. This is clearly the best movie of the summer. "},{"Title":"The universe according to Kevin Smith - a bizarre constellation of pop-icons and ruthless gags.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith chose to say goodbye to the world of Jay and Silent Bob with a film that was 'nothing but a long line of gags. No issues. Just a big joke, a big laugh.' Judging by the enthusiasm of the crowd in the press screening in LA on June 27th, he has succeeded. The familiar characters are all greeted like old friends. Laughs abound. The film has only a thin plot-line, but who cares. Jay and Silent Bob find out their alter egos 'Bluntman and Chronic' will be used in a movie without their consent, and they set off from New Jersey to Hollywood to sabotage the project. On the way, they hitch rides from a nun (Carrie Fisher), the cast from 'Scooby Doo', and four 'Charlie's Angels'-like girls who use the guys as patsy's for a diamond heist. Smith digresses from the story at will. He introduces a mad Wildlife Ranger, who pursues them; he used a monkey (pardon an ape) in his comics and so hey there's a urangutan in J&SBSB. If their is a more laid-back film I haven't seen it. Smith does what he pleases, sticks to a very simple style of directing and lets his actors have fun. All cameos are funny; all gags seem to have to do with oral sex and Jay, especially, has no 'moral barometer' to keep him from saying the most outrageous and 'incendiary' s***. Even when the film is not funny, it is still a peg or two above your average adolescent jerk-off summer movie (American Pie, Legally Blonde, Scary Movie 2). Why? Because every detail of the film, however crude or obscene, proves that Smith is a man who is thoroughly in love with the world, the world of Quick Stops and comics and Star Wars. This love is unusual. It can be felt; it proves that Smiths film are not really frivolous or camp. He really cares. In my book, that puts him on a page with Woody Allen, or Warhol, or Lenny Bruce. Undoubtedly, Smith will now 'grow up'. Heaven knows what he'll do next. He mentioned 'a serious Woody Allen-September movie', a film without the Jay and Silent Bob safety net. I'll be there. "},{"Title":"IMDb fail...","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The only reason I sat down and watched this film was because of the featured review here on IMDb. Which told me to not listen to the critics and watch an enjoyable film. This is the worst film I have ever seen next to Big Momma's House 2. When Kevin Smith's name came up as the credits rolled, I literally couldn't believe it. A lot of people hold him in reverence of course. COP OUT and DIE HARD LOVE IT OR LEAVE IT are two of my favourite films. Obviously Smith as well as most involved with this film were looking for a payday. The plot was weak and although original everyone looked like they couldn't be bothered. Do not see this film. Kevin Smith needs to start planning Copout 2 before more films like this show up his shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Trust me when I say this will look very dumb and dated in twenty years.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For some reason Kevin Smith saw it fit to pump out a film that isn't smart, isn't funny, drags on and on about absolutely nothing and yet has bothered to aim it at a demographic that has an attention span that is the same as their age only in seconds. I will not deny that Clerks. is a good film that is witty and realistic but at the same time careful and unpredictable. Then came Mallrats which made me think that if Smith wants to make films about nothing in particular that aren't funny then so be it. Dogma was about something but still rubbish and although I'm yet to see Chasing Amy, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back suggests to me that it'll just be more of the same garbage.The film is an absolute no-go zone in terms of anything. I will go so far to say that the only interesting thing to come out of this film is the way the Miramax studio idea towards the end is played with &#150; other than that, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is an unnecessary and unfunny film that was probably the inspiration for Epic Movie (2007) in fact it's sort of Epic Movie meets Last Action Hero. I find it fitting that the song playing over the end credits is 'Because I got High' by Afroman because the film is a total trip for all the wrong reasons. Smith starts off his journey of disaster that is Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back by breaking the fourth wall (a tiresome gag) and mixing up real life characters with fictional characters within the film. He even makes the genius, genius decision of actually insulting his viewers very early on by reminding them just what lousy humour they've all been laughing at for the last seven years. Yes Kevin, many people have but you know what? I twigged your dumb humour about twenty minutes into Mallrats so you can't catch me out.Numerous things I don't understand with this film stem from the humour. How can anybody under the age of about fifteen laugh at the things in this film? The film was rated 'R' in America and '18' here in England which suggests who it's aimed at &#150; they were going for an adult audience. However, watching a deluded drug dealer's sexual fantasy as he dreams about kissing a random girl as she walks into a burger joint and then publicly re-enacts a sex act as he's still dreaming is perhaps the worst example of brainless, sexist comedy. His accomplice places a cup over his groin but he still manages to 'fill it'. Smith also thinks that including multiple scenes of swearing and toilet humour as well as getting girls to appear in flashes of their bras as well as in PVC catsuits will get bums on seats and he's right; only to a very, very premature and basic audience. It's sad when a filmmaker has to stoop so low in order to get a fan following going.The word 'needless' is pretty much applicable to most of this film. It's plot about Jay and Bob travelling to Hollywood to stop a piracy production is average enough but the whole detour involving the 'animal rights activists' is just an excuse to include more failed humour. It was needless to have all three girls leap over the security beams once at the warehouse and of course, there's no CCTV watching them or alarms to go off once a window or a glass case has been broken. Was the film even thought through or does Smith really think that less of his audience. There is a reason to smile once Jay and Bob get to the film studio with numerous film stars being upstaged and previous films being mocked &#150; American Pie and Reindeer Games my favourites but at this point in the film the damage has already been done and the horrible, horrible climax will leave a very bad taste in the mouth as will the way everybody finishes the film (wait for it)........dancing!? I tell you, if anybody else other than Smith made this film everybody and I mean everybody would just laugh AT him and ignore him for the rest of his career &#150; two things I am now having to contemplate. "},{"Title":"Smith rips Hollywood apart!","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In what was supposed to be his last View Askew film (until he made Clerks II, that is), Kevin Smith uses a lot of his most notorious characters to make fun of the movie industry with his inimitable style, using the immensely popular Jay and Silent Bob as his primary weapons.The two stoners, played by Jason Mewes and Smith himself, have been adorable sidekicks in Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. Now, they get their own movie, and from the start you get an idea of how it's gonna be we learn they were abandoned outside the infamous Quick Stop store as kids, which explains why they've been hanging there ever since (we also find out Jay inherited his foul mouth from his mom). Until Randal (Jeff Anderson) and Dante (Brian O'Halloran) file a restraining order against them. What could have been a bad day turns even worse when comic book geek Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) tells them Miramax, no longer making just good movies, is adapting Bluntman and Chronic, which is based on them. The bad thing about it is, not only won't they be paid a cent, but a lot of people are posting offensive stuff about them on the Internet. What else can they do, if not go to Hollywood and stop the filming?Well, they could ignore the whole thing, since, according to Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck), no one is gonna watch a movie called Jay and Silent Bob (as soon as he says it, all three of them look straight into the camera, causing a few laughs), but since Jay is incredibly stubborn, they're gonna attack Miramax anyway. And steal a monkey on the way, with a federal wildlife marshal (Will Ferrell) coming after them. And get accused of being terrorists, so no one will bother four female jewel thieves the two idiots inadvertently helped.The plot is a bit more complex than usual, considering who's directing the film, and that's actually the movie's main weakness (the other being the unnecessary presence of certain actors, like Jason Lee, whose material isn't juicy enough) had Smith left out the monkey and thieves subplot (although Ferrell is undeniably funny, especially in the Fugitive spoof) and focused on the main story alone, the film would have been more accessible and enjoyable. In fact, once Jay and Bob reach Hollywood, there's a lot of fun to be had. Highlights include Ben Affleck and Matt Damon shooting Will Hunting 2 (oh my God), a priceless Star Wars parody with Mark Hamill playing a Sith with an unwritable name (arguably the film's best scene), and much, much more, all given more poignancy by Smith's trademark profane dialogue. Those looking for intelligent movie-mocking (not Scary Movie) will be very satisfied by this comedy.So, who is this movie aimed at? Well, Smith fans, certainly. Film buffs, of course. Oh, and anyone wondering why a studio would finance a comedy which makes fun of that very same studio (that's actually kind of weird). "},{"Title":"Hilarious Dialogue","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, director Kevin Smith manages a better Scream spoof than any of the Scary Movie films, more references to Star Wars than a Star Wars film, and a better performance by Ben Affleck than any other film he has starred in. What's even more amazing is that each of these triumphs are no more than a scene each. What this goes to show is that Kevin Smith is as witty and sharp as ever. On the Surface, Jay and Silent Bob... may look like a brainless parade of coarse language and silly facial expressions, but it is far more intelligent than that. The film is a clever parade of View Askew in jokes, movie references and a complete bashing of Hollywood. The pairing of Jay and Silent Bob is stronger than it has been in any of Smith's previous films, and their relationship is pure classic comedy, which is amazing considering that one of them barely speaks. After the controversial but brilliant Dogma, Smith wanted to make a controversy free caper starring the most prominent characters of his franchise, at the same time burying the characters of Jay and Silent Bob. This film is the first chance that Jason Mewes, after years of criticism by movie distributors, gets to display what he is capable of to full effect. There is very little dialogue of his that isn't hilarious at the very least. The clever narrative makes for a wonderful comic caper, with the hilarious slapstick of a more extreme Laurel and Hardy or Blazing Saddles. Jay and Silent Bob's most enjoyable scene is the self - berating Matt Damon and Ben Affleck making a sequel to Good Will Hunting, whilst criticising each other's films between takes. It is Hollywood spoofs like this, with big names like Ben and Matt, Jason Biggs and even Wes Craven playfully making jokes of their own work, that makes Jay and Silent Bob... an impeccable piece of film making from Smith. The performances by Jason Mewes, Will Ferrel and Chris Rock are some of the funniest you'll ever see, and to top it all off, the return of Clerk's Randall and Dante, and Jason Lee's character from Mallrats make for charming nostalgia. Thank God Jay and Silent Bob are back for Clerks 2! "},{"Title":"I am sad.","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is merely an opinion so don't p!ss a brick over anything I say.I gave this movie another chance for the third time the other night and it still hurt to watch. Maybe I've been spoiled by previous movies. Maybe I just don't get it. It just seems that 'Jay & Silent Bob' are cheap nod and a wink to all the grass-heads and cultists out there. Haha. Jokes over. Gimmicks only go so far.Don't get me wrong. I am appreciative of Kevin Smith's previous movies and believe he is an invaluable talent in the industry. Although much of his work (writing) seems rushed, tiresome, preachy, and stale (deilvery mostly), Chasing Amy' seemed the most honest, realistic, insightful film of his yet with Clerks right up there.I can understand the attempt to poke fun at Hollywood and have a good romp with old friends at the expense of the distributor but you look pretty damn ridiculous in the process. This will probably be the last Smith film I contribute any money towards.I'm sorry. This just doesn't look like the work of a director/writer inspired by Richard Linklater.Let the hate ensue. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Big Laughs.","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the fifth of my hero, Kevin Smith's, View Askew series. It's also the most comedic. Jay and Silent Bob finally have their own movie, and as a Smith fan, I ate it up. I was really excited to see this. I died laughing, even though it is one of Smith's weaker films. But saying that a Kevin Smith comedy is bad, is basically saying that it's a hilarious movie, that's better than many comedies out there. This movie, happens to deliver more big laughs per minute than most of those Adam Sandler comedies.In this one, Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) discover that a movie based on their superhero likenesses, Blumtman and Chronic, is being made, and they're not being paid a dime. To make matters worse, they are being bashed on the internet. In an attempt to stop the movie, the dim-witted duo hit the road for Hollywood to stop the movie from being made.That's the only plot there is. They encounter various misadventures, including a band of diamond thieves, including Justice (Shannon Elizabeth), who Jay falls for, and she naively fails to notice that all Jay talks about is having sex with her and she finds him sweet. She is a good girl type, who you couldn't imagine doing all the things Jay says he wants to do to her. They also encounter a hitchhiker played by George Carlin, who's philosophy about hitchhiking is a perfect setup for a joyously vulgar gag involving a nun. Jay and Silent Bob also steal a monkey. This movie is far more stupid than Kevin's other movies. While many will find his other movies boring, this one is one that everyone will enjoy. Everyone who's old enough to see it, at least. This movie features literally constant use of the f-word, and has many obscene sexual gags. It's all really funny. The movie is also one that probably shouldn't be seen if you haven't seen Kevin Smith's first four movies, as several of the jokes involve references to the previous works. Fans will eat this up. Characters from the first four show up frequently. Jason Lee shows up in this movie as Brodie Bruce from Mallrats, and Banky Edwards from Chasing Amy. Ben Affleck shows up as Holden McNeil from Chasing Amy (Holden actually mentions Ben Affleck at one moment), and then he shows up later as himself, where he and Matt Damon are making fun of each other's careers. Jason Biggs shows up in a hysterical cameo, and truly sums up his career in a hilarious reference to American Pie. Jay is still one of the funniest characters ever, and with his mouth that is so filthy it would have Cartman telling him to watch his mouth, makes me hope for a sequel where Jay goes to meet Justice's uptight parents. While it will never happen, Jay is a great character for a situation like that.One thing should also be put out there. This is Will Ferrell's most underrated performance ever. He plays a silly role that's minor and significant at the same time, as a federal wildlife Marshall, who is after the monkey that Jay and Silent Bob stole. Hearing Will Ferrell deliver Kevin Smith's traditional vulgar dialogue is a nice change from those other comedies he's done. If you like Will Ferrell's brand of humor, and aren't easily offended, then this movie is an absolute must see.So if you're a fan of Kevin Smith (or Will Ferrell), then I highly recommend this It is rated R for Non-Stop Crude and Sexual Humor, Pervasive Strong Language, and Drug Content. Sex 7/10 Violence 5/10 Swearing 10/10 Drugs 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very god!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action!This film is in my top 10! It's a very god film.It's funny and full of action! "},{"Title":"A fart of a movie!!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A big letdown, especially coming from the man who made Clerks! Kevin Smith cannot act, not even a character with the range and dimension of Silent Bob. And he needs to realize that lines with a swearword in every half a sentence or a string of 5 words, actually the minimum thereof don't always make up for humour. None of the situations is remotely funny. The non-existent plot is only an excuse to fit in independently written one-liners; and only very few of them are actually funny. The movie is a long drag and a bore and has more crap than a community toilet. Its an insult to assume that any viewer with any sense of humour would enjoy this piece of dumb trash. To be fair, Kevin Smith does have a line in the movie that says anyone thinking of seeing a movie so conceived as 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike back' had be a complete blundering buffoon. For that and some hot chicks, this gets a two on ten. "}{"Title":"100% farce, 100% funny!!!","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's tons of profanity and sexual innuendos, but if that's okay by you, and you love Jay & Silent Bob, this movie will be a great way to pass a dreary afternoon with nothing to do.Jay & Silent Bob find out from their pals Brodie (Jason Lee) and Holden (Ben Affleck) that Miramax is making a film about their alter egos, Bluntman and Chronic, and since nobody bothered to tell J&SB about it, that obviously means they have no intentions of paying the muses their money!!! The furious pair of stoners try hitchhiking by the book and don't get too far. The Mystery Inc. gang picks them up...or was that a dream??? Eventually, 4 hot babes and one dork with a guitar take them as far as Colorado, where they end up unwittingly forming a terrorist organization called the C.L.I.T. who fight for animal rights???!!! With a hysterically funny Federal Wildlife Marshall (Will Farrell) in pursuit, the dynamic duo eventually reach Hollywood, where they meet up with Jason Pie F*cker Biggs and James Dawson Van Der Beek, the 2 who end up cast in their movie!!! Funny enough, but I howled when, upon spotting superstars Matt Damon and Ben Affleck (guess who plays them), Jay says, Hey, it's those 2 f*cks from the Mork movie!!! Indeed, hoping to achieve a 2nd Oscar, Damon and Affleck are filming Hunting Season Good Will Hunting 2!!! It was in these scenes that all the nasty comments I've made about Affleck selling out to make reindeer and asteroid crap were repeated almost word for word!!! There's nothing cooler than actors who can make fun of their own careers. Mr. Affleck, I apologize a thousand times for all the hateful things I said about you. I'm an a$$hole and you suddenly have a former fan back...There are lots of great cameos and support roles from George Carlin, Princess Leia, Chris Rock, Jamie Kennedy, Shannen Doherty, Shannon Elizabeth, Luke Skywalker, Eliza Dushku, Mrs. Kevin Smith, Ali Larter (or should we call her Farter LOL), Dante Hicks, Randall Graves, Seann William Scott, Judd Nelson, Jon Stewart, and Joey Lauren Adams.There's nothing to take seriously about this movie. It's kind of like Mallrats. Just funny and slapsticky. "},{"Title":"Smith's love letter to fans","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one long inside joke for fans of his View Askewniverse... and Kevin Smith is unapologetic. As he well should be. He earned the right to make this film, and while it's probably meaningless to anyone outside the realm, like most inside jokes, this film works very well for people looking for back-references and a way to tie it all together.The film itself is sophomoric and probably dumber than any of the previous installments. There's no big religious message here, like in Dogma. No big picture relationship truths like in Chasing Amy. The action sequences aren't even as fun as the disappointing Mallrats, and nothing can touch the simple brilliance of Clerks. As a stand-alone film, Jay and Silent Bob Strikes back can't possibly compare.I won't bother going into the ludicrous plot, and the acting isn't meant to be good here. But it's in the endless cameos, references, connections and inter-connections that the humour is truly born here. This is a funny movie that's made for the inside group of fans who have followed these characters through four movies, and it's the perfect sign-off to the rude, crude View Askewniverse before Smith hangs up his trench coat and moves on. "},{"Title":"A soup of vulgarity, profanity and brilliant satire.","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has wrought a fine web, a soup of vulgarity, profanity and brilliant satire that asks for, and receives perfection from each and every person in the cast.  Will Ferrell, Eliza Dushku and even the usually annoying George Carlin put the best in best supporting cast.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a waste of time!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was utter crap. Every other word was f**K this and f**k that. Kevin Smith, you have talent, but when you do crap like this movie, your career will head to the toilet. Not even half as good as Clerks or Chasing Amy. "},{"Title":"Disappointing at Best!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only analogy that would be worthy of a letdown of this magnitude would be if Mozart had stopped composing to write jingles. How unlucky was I to see American Pie 3, written and directed by Kevin Smith. Way to sell out to the High School Jock crowd Kevin!(  "},{"Title":"KEVIN SMITH IS GENIUS! REALLY! Well... thats what I hear anyway. )","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To be honest, I've never thought much of Smith and his trite, boring movies, and not much has changed with this film other than to say he keeps his suckitude on an even keel, and is damned consistent at it. The acting is subpar, the cinematography is lacking and the story? Well, it is aimed towards 12 year olds and stoners so what do you expect? What with the way Mr. Smith is held in such high esteem by the hollywood community, you would think he was the next Orson Wells... but this is no Citizen Kane, it would be generous to say that this film is far more entertaining than Sizzle Beach USA, but without Kevin Costner's *ahem* credibility. Well, at least he gets to live out his Ben Affleck fetish and cast the worthless hack in yet another of his films... "},{"Title":"worst movie","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen. A waste of time and money. How the producers got the idea to do this movie is a mystery. This movie will be a dirty spot on the careers of the artists in this movie. The whole movie is a nonsense, I didn't have a slightest grin when watching the movie...What a pity...How so many people gave it a '10' is another mystery... "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy laced with profanity was funny during the seventies when Richard Pryor was at his peak. Comedy laced with drugs was funny during the late seventies when Cheech & Chong were at their best. But, Jay and silent Bob are not funny at all and will never be unless and, maybe, they can come up with their own original style. I found them both slightly amusing during Dogma but this movie is just terrible!  "},{"Title":"There are better ways to waste your time","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clerks is a little masterpiece, and that's the problem. Kevin Smith reach the exit too early, and have not been able to digest. No one of his other films bring anything. Dogma has some creativity inside, but Mallrats and the even worse Jay and Silent Bob can be easy classified as the worse teen films. If you want to waste your Saturday, better see the TV (at least you'll save some money). "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I was 15, I would have probably liked this film. Of course, when I was 15, I went to the theatre to see such crap movies as Porky's III and Hot Dog.The movie tries too hard to be clever, and ends up looking stupid.Very disappointing, to say the least. "}{"Title":"Overrated?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I checked out the review of this movie before I rented it this past week, and I had high expectations.  But man, was I disappointed.  This movie is clearly overrated here at imdb.  7.5??  Yeah rite... I found this movie quite boring and anonying throughout _most_ of the film.  Jay and Silent Bob were both anonying characters.  I have to admit, however, there were quite a few funny moments c.l.i.t..  But my suggestion to you, is to not see this movie at all if you can avoid it.Rating 2/10  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I have ever seen","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD because it had such a high IMDB rating.  I am now in the process of trying to figure out how this won't happen again.  The IMDB rating system has served me well, but in this case it failed.  I would say the same about Clerks., but I could not bring myself to watch the whole film.  I only got ten minutes into the movie and have never reached for it since.  Maybe I should just stay clear of anything involving Kevin Smith.  "},{"Title":"Not to be seen......","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess being older somewhat dulls the senses to what is hip or not, but I found the film bad. Vulgar is sometimes vulgar and this movie is. I was embarrassed to be in the room with teenage girls watching this, because it didn't deliver enough laughs or have a clever enough premise to cover the foul language.I think the voting on this is the emperor's new clothes syndrome. It just isn't cool to be contrary to the new hip talent. While the stars do have some talent, it wasn't cute when Eddie Murphy used to do stand up and say, s***, f***, ha, ha , ha  and it isn't now.It is also a lame attempt at counter-culture quasi-intellectualism. Who the heck cares if these people are really intelligent or not. The movie isn't entertaining and that's what these artists are suppose to be doing, not qualifying me for mensa. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Out.....","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What I thought might be interesting was nothing but a waste of my time. This film had no Conversational comedy, which is what made Kevin Smith's first four films funny. All this film proved was that Jay And Silent Bob only work as additional characters, not lead.  I hope this film never makes it to DVD, because the only place that this movie belongs is in the trash!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Am I on the same planet?  This movie was awful!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a huge fan of Clerks, I was really excited to see this movie, especially based on the positive reviews.  After seeing it last night, I'm not sure disappointment is the right word - disbelief is more like it.  I'm not given to hyperbole, but I really think this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and the five friends I was with all agreed.  My issues aren't PC related, either.  Clerks was smart, insightful, profane, hysterical and alive.  To me it symbolized all things great about independent film.  Jay and Silent Bob shows the sad extent of Kevin Smith's absorption into the entertainment machine, despite his lame attempts to make it appear otherwise.  Instead of writing thoughtful, funny stories about human relations, he's become part of the pathetically self-referential and self-absorbed world of hip Hollywood.  Some of the defining characteristics of this group are insular neuroticism, obsession with image and media-friendly vapidness.  I wasn't surprised to see SNL members in this movie, SNL long ago stopped being original and creative and is now just a bankrupt, cynical and stupid venue for untalented people performing mean spirited parody.  Unfortunately, Smith seems to be following suit.  The formula seems to be get a bunch of stars, make some ass jokes, fire off incessant homophobic slurs (offensive not necessarily because of their intent but because of their Pavlovian frequency as a tool to get a cheap laugh), get some busty babes, smoke some weed, and you've got yourself a movie that goes over big with prepubescent boys, which is the only thing nearly anyone in movies these days cares about anyway.  Jay and Silent Bob has no heart, no class, no brains and is a complete waste of the talents(?)of all involved. "},{"Title":"This movie is for High School Kids","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the second time I will try this because for some reason IMDb didn't post my first review. I feel this needs to be said because reviews out there for this movie are all GREAT. We saw it because of the outstanding reviews. 8.0 come on. How could this movie get an 8.0?????????This movie was the worst movie I have ever seen. It reminded me of a movie that a 15 year old kid would do if given a Hollywood production budget. JISK is right on (read his review). Thank you JISK.Look I am not some old prude either. I saw Dude, Where's my car and at least I laughed a few times. Scary Movie was funny. This movie was totally unfunny. It basically consists of a bunch of vulgarity and a plot so full of holes that it looked like a piece of moldy swiss cheese. For those that are giving this movie a 10? I ask how could this happen in a movie that is a 10? Jay and Silent Bob steal an ape. They are surrounded by police then next scene (totally unexplained) they are sitting in the woods somewhere...I am assuming after escaping the cops. This movie was just totally unfunny vulgarity every 2 seconds. And I will repeat I saw Scary Movie and realize that movie too had it's vulgar moments but at least it had it's funny moments. I saw 2 of Kevin Smith's movies - Mallrats (terrible) and Chasing Amy (ok). If you have not seen any of Kevin Smith's other movies I recommend renting Mallrats and if you like that terrible movie than maybe you will like this.It's obvious, there is a Kevin Smith cliq. If you are not a part of that cliq please listen to me this movie is total garbage. I can not even describe this movie accurately because I could not say what they did in this movie without being censored. Just trust me it's garbage. "},{"Title":"This Movie is one of the worst comedies of ALL TIME","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The use of the F word excessively and references to the sex organs are the only things that this movie tries to use humor with.  No originality, bad humor, bad use of the story, bad everything.  15 people walked out on this movie when i went to see it.  Worst 6 bucks i ever spent!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The whole world is against them.  But they still are awesome.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done something not too many filmmakers are able to accomplish.  He has directed 5 films in a row, that have been in my mind all funny, often though provoking and just really good movies.  This is the fifth movie, the last of his New Jersey series with his always present Jay and Silent Bob, is not the best of his series but it is still possibly the funniest film I have seen this summer.  A consistently silly yet laugh out loud fest of jokes and usual one liners from Smith that scores well, even if it doesn't score as well as Dogma or Clerks.Here, the dynamic stoner duo find out through a weird new invention known as the internet (a place to bitch about movies and swap pornography) that a movie is being made about them, er, they're comic book alter egos from Chasing Amy known as Bluntman and Chronic.  They get so steamed they head for Miramax studios in Hollywood to stop the movie.  This starts the odyssey that brings up cameos including George Carlin (sick, but still funny), Carrie Fisher, Mark Hammil, and basically most of the stars from the past Smith movies.  This film is like a big inside joke, and if you get it, you'll like it more than others I guess.  But it is still funny for anyone who wants a good laugh and is tired of some of the really lame comedies of late.  It's a nice, if sometimes a little obscene (not in a bad way), gem.  One more note, not only does the movie bring mack many of the past stars of the view askew movies, but it also answers a question what happened to Jay and Silent Bob after the end of Mallrats.  Kudos to Smith and the whole cast.  A "},{"Title":"I can't believe I wasted my $10.00","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong... I've always been a BIG Kevin Smith fan, I attended the Advanced Screenings of both Chasing Amy and Dogma, and own all 4 of his pre-Jay movies, as WELL as the DVD with the animated Clerks show... ... I was INCREDIBLY disappointed with Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. It was boring, repetetive, and lacked the singularly impressive quality that I've always liked about Smith's movies, GOOD DIALOGUE. Smith's always written movies that don't necessarily have to be seen to be enjoyed, as the dialogue is always clever and direct. This movie, on the other hand, sits well below the crass and unimaginative level of a Farrely Brothers movie.Kevin, why hast thou foresaken me???I hope he DOES do Fletch, so that he can get back to GOOD writing as opposed to the dreck and drivel that is Silent Bob and Jay Strike Back. "},{"Title":"Save yourself the trouble...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I did not expect this movie to anything more than just funny and it failed miserably at that. I like Kevin's first three movies of the Jersey series, and while I could watch Dogma - without being too impressed by it - this one was truly a delusion. I felt a bit sorry about not being able to laugh as hardly as many of the people around me, but frankly you have to have pretty low standards to enjoy this stuff. My advice is to save the money for something better. You really won't miss anything about this movie if you decide to see it at home when it comes out for rental. "}{"Title":"Stunned","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe the genius behind Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy brought us this crap. I still think Clerks is one of my all time favorite movies. It's witty dialogue is simply genius.How did we go from such great repartee to farts as jokes. I mean it may be okay to use a fart in some way to build a joke, but farts alone, are not funny.I am absolutely stunned at this picture. I was expecting to like it of course, as I did with all Kevin Smith's previous films. I did not, in fact, if it were not for the absolutely joy seeing the old characters again (especially Randal Graves, still my favorite) this movie would have been a complete waste of my time.Sorry, I'm still in shock, some 10 hours after watching it. I can't believe what I witnessed. I just hope Kevin Smith's next picture doesn't blow as much as this one.  "},{"Title":"If your idea of a good time is to do drugs and frankly discuss sexuality with others, than this might just be your movie. I left the theater feeling sad and angry. 1/2* (out of four)","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK / (2001) 1/2* (out of four)Hollywood is in a fierce competition this year who can release the most terrible movies before the 2001 movie year comes to an end-and it couldn't come soon enough. There have been countless contenders for worst film of the year as to date, but do any of them compare with this movie? Even Pootie Tang, Joe Dirt, and Saving Silverman displayed a greater level of intelligence than this worthless, pointless sack of cow dung. They portrayed human beings and showbiz as harmless, sweet nature elements of modern culture.Jay and Silent Bob doesn't even do that. Kevin Smith, director of such overrated raunchy comedies like Chasing Amy, Clerks, and Dogma, have directed a movie here beyond average human comprehension. It is not possible for any mature, civilized member of society to connect with such a brainless mess of dirty jokes and crude humor. No intellectual moviegoer will laugh at the mind-numbing array of insults and circumstances that transpire on screen.I guess you can call this a movie, but it's more like an experiment of immature filmmakers mocking themselves. You would get the same quality of filmmaking if you gave a bunch of eighth graders a professional movie camera and sound equipment, and told them to run off and have fun. The only difference is that these guys are big stars with big bucks-and the eighth graders might be smarter.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back contains many, many familiar names in the cast list-shame on all of them. Famous, appreciated actors, directors, writers, and singers show their faces to these moronic filmmakers who simply want to exploit their unfunny, dysfunctional sense of humor to American masses.  Some of the material has satirical potential; it's fun to watch these celebrities making fun of their own cinematic body of work. Unfortunately the needless foulness and inanity of this movie destroy any fun ironies or effective moments. Not even fans of Smith's previous work will appreciate this ugly, unpleasant trash.The plot Jay (Jason Mewes), a puke-inducing, profanity spewing pothead, and his friend Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), who seldom says a word, learn that a Bluntman and Chronic movie is in the production process. The movie contains characters based on their comic book counterparts, and they have not received a dime in royalties yet. The two drug buddies venture across America to sabotage the movie at all costs. Along with way, they try to give a nun oral sex, make friends with an orangutan, fall in love with beautiful jewel thieves, smoke some joints with Scooby Doo and friends, interrupt various movies in the making, and even fight Mark Hamill in a retarded Star Wars spoof.The characters recite their dialogue as if they are detached to everything around them. They need to wake up and realize they're on planet earth. I am not immune to laughing at dirty jokes about sex and drugs, but they need to be funny. Acting stupid on camera is not funny. We learned that after Freddie Got Fingered. Humor can evolve from sex, drugs, nudity, and parody, but actors pretending to be stupid people who discuss such things in front of a camera operator just doesn't  tickle our funny bones. The humor in this concept would be in Jay and Bob's realization of social maturity-there is potential in a well-written script on these ideas. Too bad the movie simply introduces more stupid characters, time and time again, providing us with more and more unfunny, wasted material.  It takes the wrong approach entirely.What's with Kevin Smith's obsession with the f word? Does he think it's funny to say the f word. This movie contains nonstop usage of the notorious phrase, in every conceivable style and sentence, probably over three hundred times. It serves no purpose here. Profanity can be beneficial to movies, especially during moments of extreme tension or anger, for character development, or if given the perfect comic timing. The f word itself does not evoke laughs. In Jay and Silent Bob, a baby, probably not even a year old, utters several of those expletives. That's not funny. It's alarming, unsettling that we, as a society, have come so low that our sense of humor now revolves around four letter words projected from the mouths of infants. How sad to laugh at such disturbing material.I could go on and on about this movie. My warnings go out to you all nobody deserves to sit through this movie. However, here's the funny thing. The screening where I saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was a sellout performance. Fans of Jay and Bob were literally standing in the aisles because there were not enough seats for those who decided they would sneak into the showing. Throughout the film, the entire audience was in stitches-laughing hysterically. Did I miss the joke. I don't think so-I was watching the same movie. I just have a higher standard of humor for myself than laughing at a movie that insults me and its own kind. If your idea of a good time is to do drugs and frankly discuss sexuality with others, than this might just be your movie. I left the theater feeling sad and angry. "},{"Title":"90 Minutes I'll Never Get Back","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this movie tonight, easily the worst I've seen in a year of mediocrity.  Where to begin.  First, dated humor A Fugitive parody? A Planet of the Apes(1968)parody? AN ET PARODY?  These were funnier the first time they were done as topical humor on the Simpsons.  Many a truth is told in jest.  At one point, they joke that the Bluntman and Chronic movie is being shot without a script.  No kidding--much of the film looks like it was made on the fly, personal, inside and meaningless conversations between the stars.  And they finally killed the movie gag where the actors break the fourth wall by acknowledging they're in film and looking out at the audience.  It was mildly funny the first time it was done, but by the THIRD time they do it, you just want to cry.  Kevin Smith maintains his love of dirty humor, something I've felt has always detracted from his otherwise hilarious films.  This time around though, nothing is shocking and it adds to the sense of dated humor seen already in teen gross-out comedies.  Hell, he even has 2 American Pie stars in the film. Easily, Smith's worst effort--even the Mallrats haters will have to say that was a superior film. Zero stars. "},{"Title":"A dumb movie, funny at times","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I mean it, I don't even know why many of the guys that watched gave it a rating above 1. If you've watched epic movie, this movie would be its brother. Comedy is so poor, the plot is so silly, the scenes suck so much that I feel guilty for even spending my time. Clerks 1 and 2 were so great, I thought these two guys in that movie would do something similar. I assumed that quality would be at least close to those movies. I don't get why guys like Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Will Farrell (cheap movie for even Will), Chris Rock and others agreed. The movie has so many unnecessary elements like an ape, A federal wildlife officer, hell, the whole movie was unnecessary, did not see it making a point. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie, mainly because i THOUGHT it would be a laugh, and there was plenty of well known actors making an appearance, Ben Affleck, Chris Rock, Matt Damon, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, to name a few.Alittle profanity is OK, but this movie was beyond stupid with the vile vulgarity they strung together to try and make the viewers laugh, but it weren't funny it was just silly and made you want to turn the film off, i didn't watch it until the end because i could not bare much more, i wouldn't advise young kids to watch this at all. I'm fine with language in movies but this wasn't even funny it was completely pointless.1/10 Avoid. "},{"Title":"didn't we used to ride the bus to school for free?","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was supposed to be Kevin's last movie with his View Askewniverse characters. Although he is now working on Clerks 2 as I am typing. This culminates all of his films. We see all of the previous characters in this film. The premise is that we follow Jay and his hetero-life mate Silent Bob from New Jersey to Hollywood. They are going to stop Mirimax Studios from making a movie about them. They meet up with a group of chicks one being Kevin's real wife. Her character bashes Silent Bob throughout the film. Jay also has his first on camera kiss in this movie. This is probably his funniest film. Like all of the other films Kevin references his other movies. It is great. I had to rewind the movie because I was laughing so hard at the jokes. This movie is strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"funniest piss take in years","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is possibly the funniest film i have seen in years.Although you may have to watch the preceding 4 films to get what half the jokes are about,as was proven when i ranted about it to some of my friends and when i got them round to watch it, i found myself p***ing myself laughing, whilst the others sat round giving me worried smiles. The fact that you may well need to watch the other films is not a bad thing as they are all pretty cool to. I lend my DVD's to everyone who i think may enjoy them, and try to turn them on to Kevin Smith films in general, as i hope the more popular they become the more likely he is to carry on in the same vain. Keep up the good work .  "},{"Title":"Cool,hip,fun whats missing??","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  hello IMDb lovers, Jay and silent bob strike back has to be one of my favourite films! its comedy gets me in stitches everytime i watch it however you have to be a certain type of person to enjoy it! it more silly-comedy than comedy-comedy if you know what i mean!i love this film because it keeps your mind of the bad things and keeps you concentrated on it, i have seen this film 100 times and it never gets boring! i also liked mallrats and i would recommend that to anyone who likes this film!if your a comedy lover watch this film! i don't want to say anything about the plot as i don't want to spoil it for anyone!although there are some scenes that can be done without (like most films) the other scenes make up for it greatly!watch it i give it 8/10!Zoe Summers XXX  "},{"Title":"Susanne? That's another story all together","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Snooch to the motherf*****g nooch! Jay and Silent Bob, the ever-present stoners from Kevin Smith's four New Jersey films, are back and in fine form in Smith's fifth film, `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.'When they find out that they are not getting royalties on a movie called `Bluntman and Chronic,' a comic book they inspired, they go to Hollywood to stop the film's production. Along the way they hook up with a foursome of diamond-stealing girls, a nun, Scooby-Doo and the Gang, and an orangutan named Susanne (you'll remember her from the last scene of `Mallrats.') Many old characters return, including Dante, Randal, Holden, Brodie, and Banky (Jason Lee in a double role). It's got the feel of the last episode of `Seinfeld,' and will certainly be funnier if you've seen the previous four movies. Kevin Smith has taken the old saying `Half the fun of the trip is getting there' to the extreme, as some scenes have no bearing on the film's outcome, but are just fun. The film doesn't deal with relationships, homosexuality, or religion, or any other topic from the other films. Instead it sets out on being fun from the first scene to the last. It pays homage to the series' characters, mocks Hollywood, and gives Jay and Silent Bob a forum for their comic skills. Fans of the duo will get their fill of `nooch,' `snoogins,' and `fatty-boom-batty blunts,' something they haven't gotten since `Mallrats.'`J&SBSB' is the final chapter for Jay and Silent Bob, as Smith is retiring the characters. Jay was out of control in `Clerks,' but has been tamed (relatively speaking) since then. However, Smith held nothing back in writing Jay's lines this time around, as he let Jason Mewes go to the ceiling with his alter ego. Almost every word out of his mouth is dirty, and we even see in the first scene that his mother was no speech saint herself. The movie can be shocking at times, but not to anyone who loves and know Smith's work. The reintroduction of old characters, especially Dante and Randal from `Clerks,' receives loud cheers and applause from the audience, and each joke from a previous film is treated like a favorite uncle you haven't seen in a while. That is one of the beauties of the film the more you like Smith, the more you like this movie.  "},{"Title":"Three Times","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Three times--that is the grand total sum of the number of times throughout this movie that I laughed.  I loved Clerks and Chasing Amy, and thought Dogma was alright.  But now I know that Mallrats is not Kevin Smith's worst effort.It just was not funny and I am at a loss trying to understand how others have overrated this movie on the IMBD.  The plot really does not matter much because the jokes were just not funny. "}{"Title":"Vulgarity unlimited","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is ok if you are immature, sad and very lonely. More swearing than an England against Germany football match and England is losing. Usually these characters are funny but only in small doses. Doesn't really appeal to anyone with any sense of humour other than 'toilet humour' Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Not even close to the quality of Clerks or Chasing Amy...","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, it was only because Sean Scott Williamson(Stifler) was in it.  He's the only really funny part of the movie.  I laughed a few times but the movie made no sense, and was just a bunch of trash.  Jay and Silent Bob aren't funny.  All the losers in the theater(mostly freaky people)were cracking up and I just didn't get it.  FYI, don't take your girlfriend to this.  If she has any class she'll think it's stupid and offensive. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie during a pre-screening and i'm glad i didn't pay any money for it because it isn't worth one dime.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The already tired joke of recurring characters Jay and Silent Bob (starring in Kevin Smith' pictures) has become even more trite. For one, I wasn't amused by these characters even when they made short appearances in films such as Dogma and Chasing Amy. I was surprised to say the least when I found out these characters were now expected to carry an entire movie. And believe me, they cannot.  Before I begin I must point out that I have no problem with puerile humor perse (I quite enjoyed American Pie, Rat Race and Scary Movie even), but I do have a problem with puerile humor that is utterly pointless and effortless. One of the main themes in this movie seems to be mocking Hollywood, or more specifically Miramax (which is distributing this picture by the way) Smith takes a few stabs at Paul Thomas Anderson for instance.  Whatever takes the attention off Kevin Smith and his own creations. Hence the problem is that this picture is a complete nothing aside from a few admittedly funny cameos performed by Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and Chris Rock. And once the attention is taken off these gimmicks it becomes painfully obvious that this entire production amounts to nothing at all, at least, nothing worth mentioning. In short stay clear of it.  "},{"Title":"Stupidest film ever made","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you just can't squeeze enough anti-gay jokes into your day, this is the film for you.  But if you are gay, and get enough hate and degradation from every encounters and discrimination, as I do, you will want to avoid this film like the plague.  It is literally nothing but a long, long series of un-ending anti-gay jokes.Between the anti-gay jokes they squeeze in the most lame pseudo-romance in the history of the cinema, between a gorgeous woman and the weak, pointless, pathetic, skinny little twirp who stars in this film, Jay.  While trying to steal an orangutan the gorgeous woman supposedly falls for Jay.  This is about as likely to happen as President Bush falling in love with Jay.  Of course, it's a comedy (so to speak... if you consider 90 minutes of anti-gay jokes a comedy).Several gay persons (Dwight Ewell, Steve Kmetko, and Gus Van Sant) actually appear in this film (in cameos), and I hope they were paid very well for putting their names on this gays are for ridiculing fest.  I can not imagine being paid enough to participate in it.  If I were to quote the anti-gay terms used in the film, they would be censored by imdb.com, yet they saw fit to condone use of these terms.The film's plot involves a cross-country trip to avenge Miramax for using characters inspired by them in a film.  So naturally they have to (1) ridicule the concept of gays marrying, (2) call gays every evil name in the book every 5 minutes along the way, (3) tell everyone along the way that they are NOT gay, God forbid, (4) use the phrase That was so GAY every 5 minutes, and (5) also glorify drugs along the way.  That's the film in a nutshell.  If there was ever an Ode to Homophobia on film, this is it.   "},{"Title":"Homophobic to the extreme.","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never been a big fan of Kevin Smith, but this film rates as low as they come. I don't think there's a five minute stretch throughout the entire film without a mean-spirited gay joke about oral or anal sex. Why the talented group of guest stars (including Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Will Ferrell, Chris Rock, George Carlin, etc.) agreed to be part of this mean-spirited mess is a mystery to me. Kevin Smith is reportedly confused as to why the gay world hates him. He donated $10,000 and made an apology to GLAAD after they voiced concern over the hatred and tone of this film. I guess if you're 12 you might find this infantile gay-bashing funny. I HATED it. "},{"Title":"A Fond Farewell to the Askewniverse","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a film that writer, director, actor Kevin Smith made for his fans. It is intended to bring to a close his series of comedies set in his so-called View Askewniverse (named after his View Askew production company) where Smith's previous films (Clerks. (1994), Mallrats (1995), Chasing Amy (1997) and Dogma (1999)) take place. Here Smith makes two minor recurring characters, drug dealers Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), who appear in all the previous films, and makes them the central characters.The plot involves Jay and Silent Bob learning that a movie is being made from the Bluntman and Chronic comic book, which is based on them, and that they are not getting any of the money they are entitled too and, worse, that they are being bad-mouthed on internet message boards. They decide that the only solution is to make a cross-country journey from New Jersey to Hollywood to stop the film from being made.Along the way, they have various hilarious adventures, involving a host of celebrity cameos, and countless pop culture references. Some people may find the film very offensive, but the fact remains that it is very funny. It is a movie that I, for one, can watch several times and still find hilarious. It is definitely a must-see for Smith fans. "},{"Title":"probably the funniest movie ever!!!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I used to think that Spaceballs was the funniest movie ever made before i saw this. I like all of Kevin Smiths movies e.g. Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy & Dogma but this one is the funniest because Jay & silent bob r the 2 main characters in this movie. Thats why i reckon this movies the best in the series & also in my top 5 comedies of all time. Jay is the funniest character to come out of hollywood, well actually he never done any acting classes, he used to work at the cash register for Kevin Smith. This is not a teeny bopper movie. There really should be an academy awards made for movies like this, i'd give this movie a solid 10/10. JAy is tooooooo funnyyy!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Another Funny Movie of Kevin Smith","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob decide to go to Hollywood to avoid the shooting of a film about their alter ego, 'Bluntman and Chronic'. I am a great fan of Kevin Smith, however, this movie is not in the same level of 'Clerks', 'Mall Rats', 'Chasing Amy' and 'Dogma'. Maybe it is his most expensive movie, but he exceeds in fart jokes and other vulgarities. But there are also funny references to movies ('Star Wars', 'Good Will Hunting', Charlie's Angels'), actors (Ben Affleck, Matt Damon), studio ('Miramax'). The joke with Mark Hamill is great. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Imprio (do Besteirol) Contra-Ataca (The Empire (of the Bullshit) Counter-Attacks) "},{"Title":"Bill and Ted Join the Muppet Movie and Back into Nurse Betty","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is one of those rare situations where if you rent the DVD, do not play the second disk of bonus material. Some artists work is much more intelligent and clever than they are, and seeing how stupid and unarticulate they are just ruins it all.That's because for me, under all the poop, fart, many many gay dick, and doper jokes, there is something very creative going on here. I think the same thing about the Waylons, at least until recently. Here the same dropoff in commitment exists, another case of success ruining the mind.That clever  underpinning is a free association that moves through different movie worlds in a free association manner as if they were spontaneously generated by us. It is a mindblowing idea, this.In written and spoken narrative, you can only trigger images that are wholly created by the listener. So free association by an accomplished storyteller means understanding the audience. It's all pull. But movies push. They give the images instead of finding them. That means that a good movie can take you different places than you want to go. And when all those places are other movies (where you've already gone) the palette is much bigger. And to see the filmmaker as a silent observer and commentator while jerking us around is a gas.So the game is to play a jazz of references, but all in an unfamiliar way. The dopey sex humor is just noise, like the volume of rock music. The real game is going on in the `music.' This is good, but Mr Kevin has done better. He needs a huge failure to get back on track. Be selfish -- wish that on him. "},{"Title":"For Kevin Smith fans","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith) are two drug dealers first seen in 'Clerks'. They find out that a comic book based on their lives are being made into a movie. After discovering the internet, they see that they are being ridiculed by trolls. Instead of wanting money, they set off to Hollywood to stop the movie. Then the duo hitch a ride with 4 hot girls (Shannon Elizabeth, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, Jennifer Schwalbach Smith). The story is a little random. There's a lot of funny inside jokes about Hollywood. It's cute but the childish jokes don't all work. It's cool to see all the Hollywood big names taking on their own previous work. This is definitely a movie for Kevin Smith fans only. At the heart of it is the friendship between Jay and Silent Bob. That part works quite well. However the production isn't as expertly made as Kevin Smith may want. There is a lot going on in this movie. He throwing every style and endless movie references at this. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob have to trek across country to stop a movie from being made , based on their likenesses. after being kicked off of their block where they hang out at the corner store, they run into someone they know and they tell our heroes about a movie being made , and it turns out it's about them, they get advice from George Carlin and many other,, they get involved with sexy girls,, stealing a monkey,, and many other misadventures along the way including a showdown, with Ben Affleck and Matt Damon,, this is one of the funnier movies that I have seen in the past 20 years,, lot's of crude sexual humor, and sight gags,, lot's of references to other movies that have been made recently. if you're looking for a great funny road trip movie, than this is definitely worth watching,, and by the way Shannon Doherty is great in this movie as well. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back a Late Review","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob are four different comedy genres at the same time. It combines a buddy comedy, a road trip comedy, a stoner comedy, and black comedy all in the same movie. The movie starts with the two best friends as babies. Their unfit mothers leave them in front of the store where Clerks begins its story. People ridicule the moms, but they go in the store anyway. After that short scene it fades into present time with a hail storm of profanity. Immediately Jason Mewes's character Jay lets out a rap with eight F bombs and 4 mother F bombs. The two go inside the store and harass the store clerk, Randal. Randal then gets a restraining order for harassment and selling drugs outside the store. Their friend Brodie tells them that the comic book Bluntman and Chronic was to become a movie. Bluntman and Chronic is based on their likeness and the boys are informed by Brodie they are entitled to some money. They go to their friend Holden McNeil to get their money, but he informs them that he gave all of his ownership to his former partner Bankey. After some research on the Bluntman and Chronic movie, Holden discovers a topic website where people are insulting Bluntman and Chronic's alter egos whose names are Jay and Silent Bob. In a furious rage of believing to be called a variety of profane names Jay and Silent Bob decide to go to Hollywood and stop the movie from being made. As they start their trip we meet many different Jay and Silent Bob go get something to eat and Jay meets the love of his life, Justice. Justice offers to give the two a ride with her friends. Her three friends Sissy, Chrissy, and Missy are not fond of them coming. We are told they are going to break out animals at the University of Colorado in Boulder. The girls bluntly say that Brent is a distraction for a bigger deal. After throwing Brent from the Van Jay and Silent Bob must be deceived to steal an orangutan. After the police arrive on the scene Jay and Silent Bob escape with the orangutan. This is when the antagonist Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly, played by Will Ferrell, arrives to find the orangutan. They get to Hollywood, sneak onto the movie lot, and get chased by security. They run into the set where they're filming Good Will Hunting two. The security finds them, and then they find themselves on a set for a Scream movie where they find the orangutan in the Ghostface costume. They finally make it to the Bluntman and Chronic set. The director Chaka Luther King, played by Chris Rock, wants Jay and Silent bob to play the parts so they badly improvise a scene. Mark Hamill then comes out as the super villain Cock-Knocker. They do an obnoxious but funny action scene. As the movie draws to a close all the problems in the movie are solved. This movie had some jokes that worked some that didn't, but it was still an enjoyable movie. Not many movies like this make me want to watch the other six movies, but for this I want to. The storyline you can tell was made for these two characters. I recommend if you just want to sit back and laugh this movie is just right to watch "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back &#x97; Stoners going to Hollywood on a silly mission","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the silliest movie Kevin Smith has made to date. He took his secondary characters, wrapped up a number of loose ends, stirred it all together, stripped all the smart dialogs from the resulting mix, and made a script out of it. You can still find a number of social commentary aimed at Hollywood in it, but the just of the flick aims at turning off your brain.The best joke of the bunch is making the fake film into a a sort of Star Wars parody and have Mark Hamill play the villain. I will also mention that Carrie Fisher has a small role in there somewhere, just to make the whole thing even more meta. Actually, Smith makes the whole thing so meta that he has to laugh at himself by making the actors look pointedly at the camera.This production is star studded with the likes of Wes Craven, Shannen Doherty, Jason Biggs, James Van Der Beek, Gus Van Sant, and that's just naming a few.If you like what Kevin Smith does, and know his universe, you will appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back directed by Kevin Smith","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith's fifth film, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, is the culmination of all his films that came before. It takes place in the same world as Clerks., Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma. It features, besides Jay and Silent Bob, many of the characters that feature in those previous films as well as featuring cameos from a slew of other famous names and faces.After watching Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (I'm just going to call it Strike Back from now on), I just wasn't sure how I felt about this film. On one hand, it's hilarious; from start to finish, Strike Back features some true gems of comedy.. Even better, the film features Jay and Silent Bob in the leads and after four films where they were featured in the sidelines, its great to see them again where they do a great job throughout as the leads of the film. Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Carrie Fisher, George Carlin, Chris Rock and Mark Hamill amongst many others make some really amusing cameos. And I can't not mention how sexy both Eliza Dushku and Shannon Elizabeth look in this film.Smith's dialogue really is great in this film. With in-jokes about Hollywood, celebrities making fun of themselves, and some real obscure situations that Strike Back puts the characters in, the viewer is sure to have a good time. Now I say that the writing is fantastic and the humour is laugh out loud funny and it is true, but like Dogma and Mallrats, Smith throws in some real juvenile humour that just doesn't fit into the rest of the film. His tendency to include an over abundance of poop jokes really brings down the level of his films (which is one of the main reasons why Chasing Amy shines over all other Kevin Smith productions).Unlike Dogma, the poop jokes aren't the only thing that brings down Strike Back. With Chasing Amy, Smith showed a maturity that wasn't in his two films. He showed he was growing as a director. Then with Dogma, he bloomed. Dogma looked phenomenal, was striking in it's colours and sets and special effects, and the camera no longer just shot the scenes it became an integral part of the film bringing the viewer into the story and making them feel for the characters. But his direction here seems to revert back to his Mallrats days, and after watching Dogma, it is such a disappointment. The static photography that I hoped was gone was back, and with so much action and movement in the story, it really made the film feel flat. It should have looked and felt like Dogma, but instead we the viewer are kept at a distance from everything that we experience on screen. It makes the film feel choppy, as if we are watching a bunch of scenes haphazardly put together, instead of a well made cohesive story.But, I digress. Poop jokes and shoddy direction aside, Strike Back is well worth watching if you want to laugh straight for just shy of two hours. If you take the funniest parts of Clerks., Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma and string them together, you still won't laugh as hard as you do in this movie. (And a word to the wise This movie will make a whole lot more sense if you have seen all four of Smith's previous films.) (And one more word to the wise See Good Will Hunting before you see this film.)Film Rating 70%Breakdown (How Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back scored 70%)Production Design 7 out of 10 Cinematography 6 out of 10 Re-playability 8 out of 10 Originality 8 out of 10 Costumes 7 out of 10 Directing 6 out of 10 Editing 7 out of 10 Acting 7 out of 10 Music 7 out of 10 Script 7 out of 10Read more of my reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Snoochie Boochies!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie had me dying in laughter from the first 30 seconds of starting. If you don't like Jay and Silent Bob or dumb stoner comedies, then this movie is not for you. If you do, it's the best of them all. This movie follows the plot of Mallrats and Chasing Amy, which are also funny movies with nearly the same cast.Once Jay and Silent Bob set out, to stop the Bluntman and Chronic movie at Miramax studios, you know their going to cause chaos. Then they meet with group of sexy diamond thieves, which only means one thing Snoochie Boochies.During the film they make a lot of references to how a movie with Jay and Silent Bob would be horrible, and nobody would spend their money to see it. At the same time their looking back at the camera and audience, which is ironic and kinda funny. Kevin Smith or Silent Bob hit gold, by making this low production film so damn funny. This is my favorite Jay and Silent Bob film, and a hope one day Kevin Smith decides to make another. "},{"Title":"Affleck was the bomb in Phantoms, yo","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You have a sick and twisted world perspective. - Brent When compared to other stoner/slacker comedies, Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is some kind of masterpiece; a shameless parade of gay, dick, fart, poop and sex jokes, wrapped up in some light satire and lovingly packaged for stoners, slackers, pot-heads, teens and children of the 1980s. You know who you are.Our heroes are Jay (played by Jason Mewes, a real life stoner), an archetypal pot-head moulded after Sean Penn's character in Fast Times at Richmond High, and Silent Bob, his chubby hetero life-mate. Our duo get into crazy adventures, run into equally odd characters, and of course eventually emerge victorious. Smith satirizes his Miramax financiers (via many Ben Affleck and Matt Damon jokes), Hollywood conventions (a monkey subplot pokes fun at Hollywood market researchers and dumb Going to Hollywood parables), treats his geeky audience to much female eye-candy, and of course many Star Wars, superhero, comic-book and filmdom in-jokes (everything from Scooby Doo to American Pie), all the while rolling out a string of big Hollywood cameos (including directors like Wes Craven and Gus Van Sant), the best of whom is probably Chris Rock, who plays an angry movie director (modelled on Spike Lee) who advocates pro-white slavery. The film is consistently funny if you like this type of humour, but lacks the gravity of Smith's best films (Chasing Amy and Dogma).The buddy/stoner comedy has been around since the 1970s (the Cheech and Chong movies), but few have any artistic merit. Robert Altman tried to make a high-brow stoner movie with O.C and Stiggs, but that misfired completely. Perhaps the classiest films in this genre are The Big Lebowski and Bad Santa, both written by the Coen brothers. These ultra low-brow genres are typically avoided by auteurs.Unlike Smith's other films, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back flows well, seems less dialogue/monologue heavy, has about a thousand more jokes and keeps these jokes flowing hard and fast. The film's last act in particular, inspired by Pee-wee's Big Adventure, offers a barrage of giggles.8.5/10 &#x96; Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Come On Silent Bob, We're Going To Hollywood.","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director Kevin Smith returns with Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back. The film follows the well known duo Jay played by Jason Mewes and Silent Bob played by Kevin Smith as they go on their trip to Hollywood to stop a movie that is being made about them. The film includes cameos from Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, James Van Der Beek, Jason Biggs, and Wes Craven. The film is loaded with drug and gross out jokes but are still funny, the story is well thought out, and the performances are hilarious. If you are looking for 2 hours that makes constant jokes and movie references, Than look no further.Rated R For Non-Stop Crude And Sexual Humor, Pervasive Strong Language, And Drug Content.1hr 44min/104min.253 uses of the F-word.****/**** "},{"Title":"Striking Back with a More than Just Outside of the Store Jokes","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob turn there jokes made by the Quick Stop into a full movie in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I consider this the last, original and yet superb Kevin Smith movie. While some of his later work impresses me, he seems now to do what he thinks would sell rather than the original, catchy, and low budget stuff he wants to make. The best Kevin Smith movies are easily Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy his first three films all having a small budget and all being extremely well written with dialog and various scenes that are very funny. There's also a love story in everyone of those movies, while different, with the most unique story being in Chasing Amy all the stories are very original and not anything you would see made nowadays. They have a very original and true feel to them. Its like people actually talking not acting.While the f word is uttered more time in this movie than a bar, it has very humorous and clever moments in the film as well as enjoyable and unexpected cameo scenes that fit nicely in the plot. I enjoyed seeing Dante Hicks, Randal Graves, Holden McNeil, and Brodie Bruce all return in this film. Even for a brief moment, I still enjoyed seeing their faces. I love all the characters and was happy to see Smith finally decided to bring them back in another movie. It was like an apology in 2001 for not having a Clerks or Chasing Amy sequel at the time.Jay and Silent Bob (played by Jason Mewes and director Kevin Smith) are infuriated to find out that a movie based on the comic book characters they were the basis for is being made by Miramax and they haven't received a movie check or credit for the characters (Bluntman and Chronic). They both set out to Hollywood to collect there mother...movie check and teach those Miramax.... a thing or too. Jay meets Justice (Shannon Elizabeth) who he falls for, but is unaware she is on the hunt to steal diamond from a diamond depositary with her girlfriends Sissy (Eliza Dushku), Missy (Jennifer Schwalbach), and Chrissy (Ali Larter). Jay and Silent Bob now become deeper in hot water then they've ever been at the Quick Stop.Notably by the top notch cameras being improved (rather than the Super16 and cheapo cameras Smith had shot Clerks and Chasing Amy with) have vanished and now we have a solid budget of $22 million and a cast of cameos like Ali Larter, Sean William Scott, and Will Ferrell we can say that Mr. Kevin Smith is not the low budget film director we knew, he's changed his ways and his now on to do other newer and more pricey things. Nothing wrong with a filmmaker improving on his films, but doesn't any else find it funny that the movies he makes nowadays like the pricey hits we know as Cop Out, Jersey Girl, and Zack and Miri Make a Porno aren't as brought up and praised as much as the classics like Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy? Its like that the stuff he did with a rock bottom, nowhere budget works are ten times better than the things with a bigger budget.Still, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is well played and well acted. There are some scenes that haven't sat right with me since the first viewing, like mainly the homosexual humor and other little things, but without a doubt, Kevin Smith impresses here, and really goes all out to show the stoners we love on the big screen. The jokes are funny and most fit nicely. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back maybe the last classic, but it comes off as a respectable close to the View Askew bests.Starring Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Shannon Elizabeth, Will Ferrell, Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter, Jennifer Schwalbach Smith, Brian O'Halloran, Jeff Anderson, Ben Affleck, and Jason Lee. Directed by Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"Parts VERY subtle,Parts VERY obvious,all Funny!!!","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" f'n fantastic!i loved this movie.the George Carlin and Carrie Fisher scenes to me were just too funny for my words. every time i think of these 2 interconnected scenes i crack up.i have seen quite a few Comiedies,although i have not seen Clerks or the other films by the makers of this one.i have read many reviews of this film,and it seems to me you loved it,or hated it.there are a lot of subtle,inside jokes that come at you so blindingly fast,you'll miss them,and MANY parts of the point of this very,very funny movie if, you're not paying attention.4 out of 4 stars.thank you to everyone who worked on this.Loved it! "},{"Title":"When Jay and S.B. find out they aren't receiving pay for a film based on them, and a bunch of people on the web who hate them, they set out to kick some Hollywood ass.","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith is a brilliant director and worthy of an Oscar for this film. I was surprised to see a large amount of amazing performers in this dirty movie! Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, George Carlin, Jason Biggs, Will Ferrell, Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Seann William Scott, and Jason Lee all make appearances! It is pretty much just as good as everything else this awesome director brought to us previously, including Clerks and Mallrats. By the way, if you enjoy a clean comedy, don't check it out. Rent it if you like a nice, dirty film, get some sodas, some snacks, and an extra pair of underwear (maybe two!) and watch while hilarity that could only be brought to you by Kevin Smith ensues! "}{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For 7 years we watched Jay and Silent Bob blossom into the hilarious characters they are. From Clerks to Dogma, they have showed their true colors (well, Jay has). And we can honestly say we know these characters very well. But we've never seen them like this. I mean, Jay and Silent Bob are side characters, how can they be used as MAIN CHARACTERS in a full length feature film? Well just sit back and enjoy 'cause Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back will not disappoint. Not only do we see Jay and Silent Bob through the whole movie. But we see cameos from people like George Carlin, Jason Biggs, Tracey Morgan, Jon Stewart, Will Ferrell, Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Sean William Scott, Chris Rock, Jamie Kennedy, Wes Craven (director of Scream), Gus Van Sant (director of Good Will Hunting), Mark Hammil (a.k.a. Luke Skywalker), and even our favorite Clerks Dante & Randall show up in the beginning.This movie is definitely worth the 100 minutes "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Out Of The Jay & Silent Bob Series!","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay & Silent Bob Strike BackStarring Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Shannon Elizabeth, Ali Larter, Eliza Dusku, Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, Sean William Scott, Tracy Morgan, Jennifer Schwalbach Smith, Will Ferrell, Brian O'Halloran, Jeff Anderson and Chris RockSpecial Appearances by Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Shannen Doherty, Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, George Carlin, Jamie Kennedy, Morris Day & The Time, Alanis Morissette, Wes Craven, Jason Biggs and James Van Der BeekGenre Comedy/AdventureRated RJay & Silent Bob Strike Back is the best out of the series and the last of the series as well. Jay & Silent Bob (Jason Mewes & Kevin Smith) found out that Bluntman & Chronic (the comic book based on their likenesses) was being turned into a movie that is in production by Miramax Films. Upon from learning about the movie, as well as the negative reaction the movie has received so far on the internet, our heroes set off on their adventure to Hollywood and to stop the movie from going into production. While on their way to Hollywood, our heroes get into a lot of events including Jay falling for Justice (Shannon Elizabeth) who is a member of a group of female jewel thieves (Ali Larter, Jennifer Schwalbuch Smith & Eliza Dushku) as well as being on the run from Wildlife Marshall Willenholly (Will Ferrell). This is my most favorite movie out of the entire series, second being Mallrats. I also like all the pop culture references jokes and the many turn of events that happen while Jay & Silent Bob are on their way to Hollywood. It's too bad it was the last of the Jay & Silent Bob series but at least they ended it on a good note, but they ever do another one then I would love the idea but I'm glad we get to see Jay & Silent Bob again in Clerks 2 after all what's Clerks what without Jay & Silent Bob? One thing for sure without Jay & Silent Bob they never would have had these hilarious spin-off movies of them. Overall, the best out of the whole series! "},{"Title":"Pure Awesomeness","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back is meant to be the goofy and pure comedy movie of the bunch. To me this movie is really the best on the comedy bringing level. View Askew really needed a movie that had Jay & Silent Bob as the starring characters, unlike previous movies. Jay is in prime form with his nonstop cursing throughout the movie. We also get to hear a small slur from Silent Bob in this movie as well. All and all this movie doesn't require much thinking and really can entertain you if you haven't seen a Kevin Smith movie ever before in your life time.10/10, this movie is pure comedy. If you are a fan of Kevin Smith then don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Snoogins!","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Love this funny movie. I love all Kevin Smith movies. Like especially how they all fit into this View Askew universe. They all revolve around references made from his other films and i think that make his movies funnier and better to enjoy, especially when you know the insiders they use often. This movie was hilarious, i mean, who wouldn't think that. The characters are too funny and the plot is great. I like the part when they refer to a movie website that the character Jason Lee plays shows them. It's kinda like this web site ha ha. Oh and then they just start looking for their movie money. Oh and the scene where Silent Bob uses the force. ha ha i was shocked kinda to see that spoof of Star Wars. The beginning of the movie was a great way to start it off. It's cute to see a little kid curse ha ha. And the fact that it's outside of the Quickstop a.k.a the setting of another great film by Kevin Smith Clerks. I love Kevin Smith and the personality he puts into his characters, especially the wise-asses he throws in, like Randall in Clerks 1&2. I like his references of Star Wars in several of his movies. "},{"Title":"Jay and silent Bob are the best stoner's alive man!","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Me and my best friend (hedro life partner) always are acting like Jay and silent Job in school man (he's Jay I'm silent Bob). You're movies kick ass Kevin! you should totally make more movies starring Jay and silent Bob. Me and my hedro life partner are like die hard fans of Jay and silent Bob. We're totally starting a collection of your action figures. When ever i get stoned, well use to, but i went to rehab and I'm clean now, but when i used to get stoned i always loved watching those two stoner's they made my high smooth and funny, hell they still make things smooth and funny, but i don't get stoned no more, But hey keep it up with the movie making man!BONNNG! "},{"Title":"A comedy masterpiece!","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Witness an epic journey, Unlike any you have ever seen...Yeah right ^_^ I actually saw this quite recently, My Sis's BF lended me the DVD of this movie and I was blown away with amazement! The story goes as 2 losers,Jay (Jason Mewes) and his friend Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) find out that Bluntman and Chronic, the comic book based on their likenesses, has been adapted into a film in production by Miramax Films. Upon learning of the movie, as well as the negative reaction the movie has received so far on the internet, the two set out on a quest to Hollywood, to prevent the movie from being made and tainting their good name, or at the very least get their motherf***ing movie check from the royalties due them....I watched it all and I was amazed and surprised, I so badly wanted to see this movie when it was released, But I was too young sadly to see it T_T.Anyway though, Its a really exciting movie with great acting from the actors, well written script and great humor ^_^ a real treat for all comic book fans, action movie lovers and...well just about anyone! Highly Recommended! "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob - RULE!!!","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Extremely funny film. Kevin Smith comes back with Jay and Silent Bob and i am obsessed with it, although the plot line is rather off the wall and stupid i don't care because the talent and the comedy in this film is unbelievable. Jason Mewes is brilliant as the foul mouthed Jay and Kevin Smith is brilliant with his facial expressions and body language as Silent Bob. Will Ferrel continues to make me laugh in this film, and i have to say i have never heard the word f**** said so much in 5 minutes of film (referring to the start.)Overall this film is brilliant if you want a good laugh and if you are ages between 12 and 17, then this is your film! "},{"Title":"OK, Seen It, Next!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've always wondered what a film that focused on the characters of Jay and Silent Bob would be like. Now I know. Whoopee-doo.This movie did have me giggling like an idiot quite a few times. There are a whole slew of celeb cameos, including Matt Damon and Ben Affleck making fun of themselves in the sequel to Good Will Hunting - Hunting Season. There are some good (and not-so-good) movie parodies to chuckle at and Jason Mewes is In The Zone as foul-mouthed stoner Jay. Now the bad news. Kevin Smith mugs far too much as Silent Bob and his writer/director/star shtick leaves me cold. For someone who's only seen Dogma (and thoroughly enjoyed it) the movie is too self-referential. It feels like one big in-joke for the Kevin Smith fanboys and girls. That's a shame, because Smith has genuine movie-making talent. I just hope that he takes a wrong turn on the road that leads up his own behind. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.. can't stop watching","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is very well thought out and well acted in. I have researched all of their movies as far as trivia and goofs and while the goofs can be seen as quite a few it makes the movies so much funnier to watch. I have a hard time telling which Kevin Smith movie is my favorite but I love this one. He is without a doubt not only my favorite director but one of my favorite actors. Anyone in the San Francisco area will know that Kevin Smith for a long time ( i am not sure if he still does this ) was featured on 97.3's morning show as a guest DJ and I made sure to always catch it when I lived in the area, I have since moved to SacTown. He is hilarious, very well spoken and the subtle humor will really get to you. Watch the movie again and look at baby silent bob. I still can't believe that is his daughter that played the part... adorable! The background on how Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes met is hilarious when you read the interviews. Read them trust me.. in for a treat if you love those two as I do.. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie when your stoned.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this was the first stoner movie i ever watched when i was in fact stoned. Jay and Silent Bob are great characters. They are hilarious. If you smoke and if you are a stoner then you have to watch this movie. It is so funny... Deffiantly worth the watch, especially when your stoned... if you know what i mean? I look at this movie as a bunch of short stories all in one. That is what Jay and Silent Bob is about. Like a series. Probably the best Jay and Silent Bob ever; or at least that i've seen. I've had some great times and moments with it. Just sitting' around with some friends up in my crib, in the dark, black lights, big screen TV - the perfect atmosphere. Jay and Silent Bob rules... I'd give it a 9. "}{"Title":"Jay&Silent Bob Strike Back was...","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" wow. This movie was so bad it was actually good. Really, it cracked me up. Yeah, there was a lot of language and sex jokes. But what are we supposed to expect from Jay&Silent Bob? A drama? No way. Go into it expecting charm and wit, and you'll come out of it saying 'dang, i want those 2 hours back.' But if you go into it expecting potty mouth humor and tons of language, you won't be disappointed. The movie totally contradicts itself. The humor in it was so crappy, it was funny. It never took itself to seriously, and there are several points in the movie were it actually makes fun of itself. So don't gather the kiddies around the t.v. to watch it, but do sit back with a few friends and enjoy the potty-mouth-ed ride. "},{"Title":"laugh out loud funny","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Absolutely the funniest movie i've ever seen, yeah, its a little, well a lot vulgar but its absolutely unforgettable. Every time i watch this movie i find myself laughing at the insane behavior that jay and silent bob produce. The basic plot of the movie is rather stupid but the general movie itself is hilarious. Not a very good movie for the kids. Jay is funnier than ever and with there come back in clerks 2, hopefully we'll be seeing them more often. They go together like gas in a car. I would not recommend the soft hearted watch this movie because the language is grown up only. This movie got a 10 out of 10 rating because it has that immature comedy scene and I would recommend this movie to everyone ages 16-40. "},{"Title":"I love Jay and Silent Bob!!!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OMG I have seen jay and silent bob literally over 50 times. It can never get old, I know every word. Whenever Im at Community Service I always recite jays rap from the beginning of the movie. I have got all my friends to watch it. I have never met anybody who watched it and didn't like it. Now my friends recite his rap and movie parts too! I think that the best thing ever would be Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back 2 F**K YA!!!!!! Well I don't know how much I can write so L8R!Love Ya,Sexy SamSnoooooooooooooooogens! "},{"Title":"A Great Flashback, And A Supposed Ending.","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith has always been known for using the same characters to influence and help his films along. Jay and silent Bob Strike Back are not very different.This film, although very Smithlike, was supposed to be the last. As many now know, it was not.This movie gave us a great look back at the View Askew characters, from Randal and Dante (clerks), to Banky (Chasing Amy), but, many who saw this film only noted Jay and Silent Bob, because this was their first Askew film, that's not their fault, this movie dwelled on the styling humour of Jay and Silent Bob, whereas Smith's past films took more time destroying pop-culture, or ridding the world of renegade angels. "},{"Title":"poo","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was awful and I don't see why anyone would like it. I am all for useless meaningless comedy but this was a little too mundane even for a useless comedy. Not only is the idea of the idea ridiculous the actors playing these people do such a horrible job I couldn't stand to finish it. But it seems to be a guy favorite as my boyfriend loves to watch it. I will rack it up there with waiting and Joe dirt as the longest most waisted two hours of my life. That being said if you still go and see it after being warned, you are not so bright which would mean the movie is right up your alley. Not to insult but this movie has no substance. Peace out movie homies "},{"Title":"f-bombs, drugs and crudeness... what could be better?","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" when you first sit down to see this, you think, Jay and silent bob in their own movie? this has got to be the raunchiest, most vulgar and dumbest movie of the year. well if you thought that, you were 2/3 right. yes it is vulgar. and when i say vulgar, i mean really vulgar. yes it is dumb. i mean come on. jay and silent bob strike back? there is no way that this can be a smart movie. it can be raunchy at come parts. but it's only humor. sexual and crude humor. from start to finish. plus they throw in some drug use and a whole bunch of vulgarity and swearing. what do you expect? it's all here. it's the perfect way to make a movie about jay and silent bob. the two guys that stole all of the scenes that they were in, in the Kevin smith movie. and you know what? it's hilarious! you got the mystery inc. clan getting high, jay and silent bob stealing a monkey, will Ferrel as a nutty cop, three hotties as bitchy secret agents, blunt man, chronic, and the cock knocker, Sean William Scott as a hippie, jay rapping about smoking blunts, doing' coke and drinking beers, Chris rock directing the movie blunt-man and chronic,and much more! yes these are spoilers, but none of this will prepare you for what you will see! this is handing out jokes from start to finish, whether the jokes are raunchy, dumb or smart, you will laugh your butt off. it has great dialog, the best performance is hands down by Jason Mewes as jay, and the story is funny. jay and silent bob have to stop the movie, blunt-man and chronic from getting filmed because they were reading early reviews on it on how people say it is going to be the worst movie and how they say that blunt-man and chronic are nothing but druggies and slackers and don't deserve to be super heroes. so, they go on a road trip to Hollywood and along they way, a whole bunch o crazy things happen. please see this movie because it is entertaining and hysterical from start to finish. it gives more laughs per minute than any movie that came out in 2001. it is everything that you could expect out of a jay and silent bob movie. take my advice and put this movie on your movies-to-see list. "},{"Title":"The Nobel Prize is Safe For Another Year!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sadly, the average IQ of our planet is a mere 34. This garbage ensures this number will remain static. America is not known for its humor and this 'movie' is a prime example how they won this accolade. If the embarrassing expletives were removed from the 'script', this would be a silent movie. In a nutshell, this is 90 minutes of someone calling themselves a 'director', attempting to use the words f***k and motherf***er as many times as possible. Who I wonder is impressed by this, or finds it remotely humorous? Even sadder, is that there really are people in the world who do find this movie funny! I kid you not. Some viewers were actually laughing at this. What must these folks' lives be like? I do not see the point of this movie. What is it hoping to achieve? There is no humor, no script, no acting, no storyline to speak of and it's 90 minutes of potty-mouth, inappropriate lines and sordid, American slapstick swill that is in no way, shape or form, or by any stretch of the imagination, funny. Clearly, this is 'delinquents-with-cameras' fodder and it saddens me to think my poor daughter will be raised in a world where this trash exists. It's not possible to write a review about this as there is nothing to write about. It can be summed up in one sentence; 90 minutes of foul language by morons, laughed at by bigger morons. This will be 90 minutes of your life you can not get back. Instead of blowing the ticket price on this swill, make a donation to your favorite charity instead. The more idiots buy tickets to this stuff, the more these fools will churn it out and ruin the movie industry. Just say NO ! "},{"Title":"I love this","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best movie for anyone who has a sense of humor, yes it is low brow but you will never get better laughs from an all star cast than this. The characters are not too deep but definitely worth a whole lot of laughs and they are also so sexy too, any man who can keep their hair that nice..... I hope that any potential readers will watch this movie and laugh till it hurts then laugh some more I wish all movie were this funny that way you wouldn't waste your money at the movie theater all in all absolutely positively great Boo boo kitty F@&$ PS clerks 2 is the best its funny and dirty for people who liked this watch that PPS if Jason or Kevin ever read this Call me!! (laughs) I'll stop now....great movie "},{"Title":"can't  we please end Jason Mewes' acting career?","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another exercise in viewing pain, and yet I still watched. Why? I'm probably the last guy in the U.S. to see this thing for the first time, but I had to get it out of the way. That's because I've got to be up to snuff when I rent the CLERKS II 3-disc set in 2012! The inter-weaved story-lines of the Kevin Smith movies are far too intricate to miss, or you'll never be able to figure out what's happening! I write this even though I missed CHASING AMY and dumped out of DOGMA after 45 minutes. But thanks to Mr. Mewes constant presence (and lack of acting range), I felt right back in my favorite discomfort level as JAY AND SILENT BOB rolled on my VCR the other night.Let's take a quick roll-call from our featured stars (including cameos), and see just who brought out the funny stuff. We'll do it back to front, to save the best (or most-likely worst) for last Morris Day-OK, great to see you and Jerome still got the slide down Joey Lauren Adams-The helium voice still grates...thankfully brief Diedrich Bader-not funny...left all his funny in OFFICE SPACE James Van Der Beek & Jason Biggs-no thanks Affleck & Damon-will likely be buried in the same coffin in 2048 (but I did chuckle at the GOOD WILL HUNTING bit) Mark Hamill & Carrie Fisher-good to see them getting work in between STAR WARS convention appearances, but still not funny Shannen Doherty-Charmed called, and they want you to fill in for (the former) Mrs. Marilyn Manson while she's on vacation Jamie Kennedy-I still don't know who you are, even though you somehow had your own TV show and the lead role in a film Chris Rock-same old schtick, but I still laughed. Thanks again for being Chris Rock and saving this from total disasterGus Van Sant & Wes Craven-still get Christmas cards (I mean Hannakuh cards) from the Weinsteins, but not me Judd Nelson-NOT FUNNY! Will Farrell-DITTO! Tracy Morgan-I thought the Brian Fellows' bit was funnier (and that always SUCKED!) John Stewart-try the clit & labia jokes at the upcoming 2006 Oscars, and you'll get the same deadpan response from the world that you got from me watching this George Carlin-this turn WON'T be in your obituary next to the baseball vs. football or 7 dirty-words bits Sean William Scott-at least Stifler's brother thought the fake tinsel was funny Dushku, Larter, Elizabeth, & Schwalbach-great name for a law firm, and the leather-clad fast-motion RESERVOIR DOGS walking bit looked good, but no thanks again Dante & Randal (they'll never be known by their real names)-liked the PLANET OF THE APES tribute, but I hope you bow to Mr. Smith every year your SAG card gets renewed.Kevin Smith-You do have a gift for Belushi-esque eyebrow movement. You're funnier without saying anything than...Jason Mewes-I'd much rather see you reprise the Jay character when VH1 does I Love the Aughts in 2016. It's always better to see you in one minute flashes once an hour. "},{"Title":"Everything that anyone's ever been awaiting.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For all who have spent their lives waiting for wacky, biting satire, wait no more. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is here and as funny as can be. Portraying the title characters (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) trying to stop Hollywood from making an illegal movie based on their lives, the movie is basically a joke every minute. Probably the funniest aspect is the way that various people appear in the movie making fun of their roles in other movies (check out Matt Damon's and Ben Affleck's appearance).I should warn you that this is not a movie for prudes. The George Carlin scene will particularly rile such people, as will the whole part about the clit. But Kevin Smith's fans are sure to love this movie. Also starring in hilarious roles are Will Ferrell, Shannon Elizabeth, Carrie Fisher, Chris Rock, and several others (I did what the movie commanded when a certain Star Wars cast member appeared). A real treat for all. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Comedy Film","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Have not had the great experience of seeing any of these films with Jay & Silent Bob and throughly enjoyed every minute of pure great entertainment. However, I taped this film in the wee hours of the AM and the film was Bleeped constantly because of the F word and quite a few others. The picture featured many great entertainers and the best part was when Jay & Silent Bob invaded Hollywood and made a Merry-go-round of all the studios and even had a security guard go crazy trying to track them down. The gals were fantastic in the picture, and the double meaning jokes make you burst out in complete laughter. Sorry if the gay community found this film offensive; Hollywood and the media always pick on various groups to make fun of. Sit back, and completely enjoy this great COMEDY ! "},{"Title":"Childish? Yes, but it's entertaining - and at times pretty funny, too.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Smith's career has been something of a downward spiral since Clerks came out in 1994 over ten years ago, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - his fifth entry in the View Askew Trilogy - is at the very least an entertaining and clever film.Packed with star-studded cameos - George Carlin, Will Ferrell, Ben Affleck, Carrie Fisher, Seann William Scott, et al - it's also got a wicked sense of humor and - although it is VERY crude and childish - a lot of the humor is also quite clever.The worst bits are when writer-director Kevin Smith reverts to his comic book tendencies (upon which the film is based to begin with) and turns Strikes Back into a geek-movie.The movie has appearances from characters from other Smith films - Randal, Dante, Holden, and so on - and Jay and Silent Bob of course return. The movie will entertain fans of Smith's work - non-fans will find it to be rather crude (too crude, perhaps) but I nevertheless found it to be quite entertaining.Plus, you get to stare at Shannon Elizabeth in a tight leather suit for a majority of the film's runtime, which can't be TOO bad. "},{"Title":"lost the appeal","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm really not a big fan of sexual humor or drug humor. in my personal taste i think it's a lame form of comedy that isn't that stimulating. however, in my time i was a really big fan of Mallrats and Clerks. so i understand what makes these movies funny, and what the appeal is. haven't watched them in a while, but if i did, i might still get some good laughs. point is - i don't judge J&SBSB by my distaste for the brand of humor, but from my knowledge of what made Kevin Smith funny in the first place.for me, it basically comes down to a matter of originality. of taking vulgar humor and putting it in such a way that all of a sudden it sounds intelligent. in his first two movies, Smith did stuff that was unexpected, different, and unprecedented. Mostly, it focused around incredibly socially acceptable behavior framed by pretty well written dialog. i might not find it that great today, but i know why i liked it a few years ago.unfortunately, that is exactly what JASBSB seems to lack. by the time it came out, everyone knew about Kevin Smith, Jay and Silent Bob, and who they were. this was in every sense a mainstream movie, and you could clearly tell. unlike directors like Charlie Kaufman who keep the originality that made them famous, Smith seemed to have lost that in JASBSB.i can't think of any specific examples right now, because I don't like being in Nebraska - it makes my head hurt - except, i suppose the role of Will Farrell. there's just no way to lay claim to the role of underground, socially divergent humor when you've got the latest SNL comedy spawn in your movie. Water Boy and the upcoming Taxi definitely aren't the most novel concepts - neither was Jay and Silent Bob.My point is, with this movie, Smith lost what made him good to begin with - a movie that runs against the current of what is normal and expected. a sort of counterculture comedy that rejects what we take for granted to create humor. on that front JASBSB doesn't challenge the mainstream any more than Ace Ventura (which actually is very funny by the way). The point is...he's not naughty anymore - just kind of blah.but that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I used to be a massive fan of Kevin Smith, you know. Like the guy's who always post on the fantastic www.viewaskew.com/ every week I'd have watched at least 2 of his then 4 films.Then I stopped idolising the guy so much. I think I matured or something... I can't honestly explain why... I do have all of his films and do still like them! But there comes a time where you stop and move on!A poor end to the Jay and Silent Bob movies (I don't know why I'm typing that! The Passion of the Clerks is being made!) which was probably a epic to the View Askew fan base... Hell I was one of them! I looked up on this film throughout the production and eagerly awaited watching it. The first couple of times I really liked it but now it just annoys me because there really is a limit to how many immature jokes one can take!Oh how Will Ferrell has adapted well in Hollywood!One for the View Askew fans and one for them only!6/10  "},{"Title":"Smith's weakest film","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally found this to be Smith's weakest film. First off, do not watch this film unless you have seen the previous four. You can probably skip Dogma, but you must see Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy(Amy being probably the most important to the plot, IMO). My favourite scenes were when jay and bob interacted with pervious VA characters like Banky and Dante. The rest of it was rather bland. Seemed like a cheap comedy instead of something original. It just didn't have the depth of his three best films Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.(Mallrats is OK, but it's better than Jay and Bob) I suggest VA fans see this once or twice. Non-Smith fans can skip. I'm a huge Smith fan, but only have watched this three times. I would have greatly preferred a Clerks 2.  "},{"Title":"Poor, poor movie poor characters, poor plot, poor writing, miserable direction","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not amazed that people enjoy this -- there's always been a market for lowbrow entertainment with a sheer poverty of imagination (as opposed to lowbrow entertainment which really soars); still, it's almost an affront that the name Kevin Smith and the word genius are sometimes found together.JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK is soulless comedy, almost entirely devoid of wit (that prologue with the two as babies saves the day, in this case).  Comedy without wit gets trotted out anew for each generation, so maybe one can forgive thirteen year olds who don't realize that this sort of pairing -- the hyper-verbal lead coupled with the silent but sage second banana -- is a conceit older than Shakespeare.  It's been done to death, folks, and it truly does take a genius to make it work for just walk-on parts; Preston Sturges himself would have been hard-pressed to squeeze 90 minutes out of it.Nevertheless, these are the central characters, so let's see what they're up to.  Ah yes an entire movie devoted to making the mediocre feel superior to the mediocre.  Lots of self-referential back patting going on.  Inferior direction that could only aspire to blandness.  Imagine Ed Wood stretching out to three or four takes, and you get the idea. "},{"Title":"thank god it's over","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey! It's time for another Chester reviewJay and Silent Bob Strike Back--i saw clerks. one of the best movies of all time, and a pretty funny onei saw mallrats. a good, funny moviei saw chasing amy. suckedi saw dogma. suckedi saw this. sucked donkiesOverall Rating 6.5 (out of 10)PROS It's a Kevin Smith MovieCONS Felt no connection with this and Clerks, Horrendus story, not very funny, Silent Bob talks too much, There is a limit of how much of the film should have Jay and Silent Bob in it and this movie exceeds it. "},{"Title":"Stupid and boring where is the joke","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Conversations with the F*** word, doesn`t guarantee a good comedy.The movie is only boring and the jokes are... god, there are no real jokes.I watched this movie, and didn`t laugh once! And I like other movies with Jay and Silent Bob, but this movie and Chasing Amy  are really worth NOTHING. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob strike back at annoying internet posters on movie websites...heeeey...wait a minute","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Jay and Silent Bob go to Hollywood to ruin a movie. On the way there, they have many wacky adventures. The best one involves Eliza Dushku. My God she was hot. Seeing her makes me want to live! That scene with her on the balcony in a T-shirt drinking a bottle of champagne was the highlight of the movie. I'm serious. Not the comedic highlight, but certainly the most visually satisfying one. So Wasteoid Jay and Zen Master Bob hit the road to Hollywood. They discover the internet in this movie and about all the malicious dorks who post nasty comments about the makers of filmed entertainment. Since they are being slagged without mercy, they feel they must have their vengeance.The ending of this flick felt like a sweet revenge fantasy for Kevin Smith. Jay and Silent Bob track down all the people who bad mouthed them and beat them up. Yeah, people who hide behind fake names on the internet and deride famous people on movie websites ought to be beaten up. So says Dr. Gore. Start Heavy Sarcastic tone In fact, I think movie stars are beyond criticism. Why can't we all just love every single movie they put out? Give them all our money and be happy with it. End Sarcasm.  I don't want to get beaten up but I am prepared if there is a problem.There shouldn't be a problem because I thought this flick was very funny.  Good Will Hunting 2 and Mark Hamill's attack were my two favorite spots. Also, the lovely Ms. Dushku was another highlight. Overall, a very funny profanity filled comedy. Just don't make fun of Jay and Silent Bob. They're watching the websites and taking names.  "},{"Title":"This is the funniest movie I've ever seen!!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back has got to be the most hilarious movie ever made. There's so many jokes and celebrity appearances that I can't help watching it over and over again. I would recommend this movie to anyone--even if I thought they might be offended by it, because I think this flick is so good, everyone should see it. "}{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A few people have described this movie has a one-joke premise stretched too far. I would agree with that. But I'd like to extend that just a bit and say that Kevin Smith is a one-joke wonder who's made too many movies.Clerks was a decent movie for what it was. I'll give him that. But Kevin Smith has taken the two most annoying characters from that film, and made them the most annoying characters in FOUR OTHER MOVIES!! (Ignoring, of course, the inane Scream 3 cameo) And now, with this, he gives them their own show. Why? To please his fans. Theres something to be said about a director making movies for his fans, trying to avoid selling out. But you see, instead of selling out to big hollywood and making something starring Freddy Prinze, Jr, Kevin Smith has instead become so concerned with pleasing his fans, he leaves the rest of us in the dark. That would be ok, except that his fans seem to think that toilet-humor and women in tight clothing make a good movie. Sorry, but...no. By the way, what exactly is the point of this movie? Is it a Hollywood Satire? Only if the old running-into-the-background gag is considered a satire. Honestly, the whole movie kinda strikes me as one long joke, the punchline of which is Ben Affleck. If thats the case, then maybe the movie IS worthwhile....but somehow i doubt it. "},{"Title":"Who says you need a plot...","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  apparently not Kevin Smith. It seems more like skits thrown together with no order. I have seen some of his other movies a long time ago.  I didn't think any of them were that great. And this is by far the worse.  Nothing in this movie will make you laugh out loud. All it is is a bunch of cussing and crude jokes. FINAL VERDICT Stay away from this. "},{"Title":"Absolute crap","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Until now, whenever I've heard people complaining of swearing in music or films I've urged them to get a life (or use the 'off' button on their TV & instead of moaning). But I'm beginning to wonder if they've got a point after this crap. Matt Damon & Ben Affleck could've only agreed to stoop this low, out of loyalty.Almost every other word was an expletive. The F-word count must've topped 300. It might have just been ok if it was Godfather or Goodfellas, but what did it add to this film? I almost swore myself then. Sweet FA.Apparently however, I'm in the unusual position, that prior to this film, I'd not only (1) never heard of either Kevin Smith or Jason Mewes but (2) hadn't heard of any of the films they'd been in either. Bar, Scream 3 which I can't remember them in & Dogma which rings a few bells but I know little about it.They were giving this film away free for a night in Blockbuster with any other rental. I made the mistake accepting the offer, watched it knowing none of the above and even though it was free would still like the 1 & 1/2 hours of my life reimbursed.I always thought the idea of parody films and spoofs was that you take off films that other people actually know ie Spaceballs. Mallrats is hardly going to top most peoples Christmas list after all.Maybe had I seen all their previous films I would have understood this more and dare I say it even got one or two of the gags. Although, even with the aid of a crate of Tennents Super, I'd still never have laughed at them.2/10 "},{"Title":"Sexually frustrated filmmaking","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I honestly have to say that this film was something of a letdown for me. Ok Chasing Amy was not good, but MallRats was awesome and Dogma was good too, so I had high hopes for this film. Not that this was total crap, but it just was not good. It was over the top too often and too long. It is somewhat as good as Chasing Amy I guess, although in my memory Chasing Amy was even a bit worse (I saw it like three years ago). This film has just too many filthy words and way too much story. In MallRats I could relate to the talk, cause my friends and I basically talk like that (doesn't everybody) and Dogma was just funny, plus that it had a message and some deeper meaning. This has profanity, stars, hot females and only a couple of really good lines. Not good, not average, but somewhere in between.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A better final chapter Jay and Silent Bob Fall Into a Deep Well and Never Come Out Again","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Here is the one and only piece of verbal humour that's actually funnyJustice (being led away to prison) Will you wait for me?Jay What - here?Okay, so it's not so funny on the page.  And it's not so funny on the screen, either, but only because Jay delivers the punchline automatically, without pause - because, that's his schtick, see?  He talks a lot.  He broadcasts words.  Any sense there is a genuinely stupid character or a genuinely gauche character, or ANY character at all, behind this schtick, is missing, which is why even his good lines (and in this particular film there is, as I've said, exactly one of them) fall flat.  Silent Bob is silent and we sense no character behind THIS, either.And to think I thought that Dogma was lousy because it felt like an entire movie devoted to these two supporting players, who were effective in Mallrats and nowhere else.  In fact, everything Smith is trying for here (not that there's much), was effective in Mallrats and nowhere else.  If this is a farewell, it's the farewell that Mallrats should have been.  (And seemed to be, when Smith released his only other good movie, Chasing Amy.)It's about twenty-five times more self-indulgent than Mallrats, with a separate reference to EVERY SINGLE CHARACTER in EVERY SINGLE ONE of Smith's previous films (twelve jokes in every thirteen are of the kind where we're expected to congratulate ourselves and then chortle after spotting a reference to something else), an attack on critics that is embarrassing in both its vehemence and its clumsiness, with two points Smith would like to make again and again and again (1) You have no business making childish and spiteful remarks about other people's movies unless you've made a movie yourself, but if you HAVE made a movie yourself, feel free, and (2) If the movie appears to be bad, but one of the characters in the movie acknowledges that the movie is bad, well, that's all right, then.Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is not funny, it's not paced, it's scarcely acted, and it doesn't appear to have even been written.  Why was it released? "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's big mistake","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a talented writer and director.  It is a pity that he besmirched himself with this scatological trash.  Smith has included vignettes with Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith himself) in most of his films to add comic relief.  These characters became his trademark and they developed a cult following.  Smith was inundated with requests to expand the characters and feature them in a film.  Unfortunately, he capitulated, and this fatuous film is the result.This film is targeted at boys 14 to 19 years old, most of whom were precluded from seeing it because of its R rating.  As a result, the box office was disappointing.  Most of the film is jejune, with occasional glimpses of Smith's comedic genius peeking out from the imbecilic slapstick humor and the tsunami of profane language and crude sex jokes.Smith has given us insightful comedies such as `Chasing Amy' and `Dogma' that are both thoughtful and funny.  In this film, he is a good sport and pokes fun at himself and the actors, particularly Ben Affleck who berates himself constantly.  The movie parodies sprinkled throughout the film are innovative and humorous, taking pot shots and his films and other blockbusters such as `Star Wars', `Scream', `ET', and `Batman'.  However, whatever comedic value these skits had was negated by the completely pointless script and the vulgar and boorish behavior of Jason Mewes, who spewed profanity literally every other word.From an acting perspective this ensemble cast is nothing more than a Kevin Smith reunion party, with most of the actors having worked with him before.  Cameos abound.  As for the main characters, Kevin Smith is always excellent as Silent Bob.  He is a master of facial expressions and physical comedy.  Jason Mewes is not really an actor.  He has little on his resume other than playing Jay for Kevin Smith.  All that can really be said of him is that he has an incredible ability to behave like a foul-mouth teenager, despite the fact that he is approaching 30.This film is a temptation that Kevin Smith should have resisted.  It is puerile and disjointed with little redeeming value other than the movie parodies.  I rated it a 3/10.  It will have appeal to certain pubescent boys, but to anyone else it is likely to be a vile and offensive experience.  "},{"Title":"A modicum of melodious funny!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back**NOTE If you have either never seen or never liked any of Kevin Smith's previous films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma), you will almost certainly dislike this movie. **I kind of relate to Kevin Smith. The basic plotline for his breakthrough hit Clerks was a lot like this short play I wrote in the late eighties. No, he didn't steal it from me (although we're both Jersey boys!), but still they were eerily similar. Oh, and he's a huge movie buff, too - check out all of his in-jokes and clever casting. There's a decided New Jersey edge to his movies, which is always cool.The characters of Jay and Silent Bob have appeared in each of Smith's movies, played by Jason Mewes and Smith himself. They're great characters, because while the plots of the movies change, they don't. And they're well characterized, too; even though Jay's coarse language would put a longshoreman to shame, he's caustically funny, obscene but hilarious. And Bob - well, he's silent, except for one soliloquy in each movie. He's the conscience of the picture, y'see. And Smith's perfect for his own role.So finally the two get their own movie, begging the question Are the characters strong enough to warrant their own film? Could they carry it?Answer Hell, yeah.Jay and Silent Bob, who have been barred via restraining order from hanging out in front of the convenience store in Clerks, find out that a comic book based on them is being made into a movie. Now, you and I might want a piece of that movie pie, but Jay and Silent Bob are more concerned with the plethora of insults being hurled at them on the Internet, mainly by overactive teenagers. So they set off on a cross-country crusade to stop the film at all costs.Actors who have appeared in previous Smith films, including Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, George Carlin, Joey Lauren Adams, Brian O'Halloran, and Jeff Anderson have roles in this one - in fact, Affleck and Damon play themselves (Affleck has two roles). Other stars, like Carrie Fisher, Judd Nelson, Mark Hamill, and Will Ferrell, have small roles as well. It's a fast-paced road movie, as the duo run into myriad characters, including the gang from Scooby Doo and a band of female jewel thieves. Smith tosses everything in here he could think of, although there's probably more on the cutting room floor that didn't make it. As I said, there are plenty of inside jokes that reference previous Smith films and parody countless other Hollywood movies (Star Wars, The Fugitive).Having watched all of Kevin Smith's movies (and being from New Jersey, which doesn't hurt in this case), I hardly ever stopped laughing during this entire film! I thought it was a stitch, a laugh riot. It was a lot better than it deserved to be. "},{"Title":"It takes some maturity to see past the immaturity","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes this film is vulgar. Doody jokes, fart jokes, dick jokes, gay jokes, they are all in there. If you will be unable to see past that, this is not a movie for you. If this sort of things makes you put up your shields and assume the worst, save yourself some money. (and stop reading this review)However, if you can see past these purposeful offenses and scratch a little deeper you will be rewarded with wit and insight of Kevin Smith. To the people who dismiss this movie as immature I propose that perhaps the lack of maturity that ruined the movie for you was your own. Kevin Smith did not invent the comic device of using shock or offense to make a point. He has simply taken it to a different level. Kevin Smith is a true master of satire. With each offensive joke comes a bit of witty dialog that seems to wink at you as he lets you in on the real joke.The juxtaposition of the vulgarity and stupidity on the screen with the cleverness and thoughtfullness of the writing is amazing. Kevin Smith's ability to maintain these two layers at the same time is awesome. And he makes it look easy.The movie feels very much like one continous stream of thought. That is pretty incredible considering the obvious care and craftsmanship that goes in to each twist and turn. The ability to make this level of complexity look trivial speaks well of Smith's abilities. The next step beyond being good at something is making it look easy.I thought this movie was very funny. There were some references I did not understand since I am not well versed in Smith-Lore. That did not prevent me from enjoying this movie. It may be the funniest film I have seen in the last year. Perhaps longer.The many cameos by famous stars add to the fun. They make fun of their previous works, and recap their roles in previous Smith films. They also look like they have having a great time.See this film!  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever and Kevin Smith at his best!!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back had me laughing. Not only was this movie funny but it was pure Kevin Smith Geniousness. Aside from Jay and Silent Bob finally having a movie in which they are the main characters. All the characters from the rest of Smith's Jersey Series are in there including Jason Lee's Characters Brodie Bruce and Banky Edwards along with Holden, Randal, Dante, Hooper X, Alyssa Jones, Walt the Fan Boy with Steve-Dave, and many other characters from the series. The film opens up with Jay doing a hilarious rap about doing what he and Silent Bob do best and then break out into morris day and the time's Jungle Love. The two New Jersey stoners discover a movie adapted from the Bluntman & Chronic comic book in which Banky and Holden created based on the lives of Jay and Silent Bob. After finding out that a number of cyber-nerds are dissing them on the internet they set out to destroy the movie with hilarious results. Kevin Smith is awesome I love every one of his movies. In Clerks and Mallrats Smith explored the world of slackers and both were hilarious. In Chasing Amy Smith created a movie that not only was wicked funny but also dramatic and touching at scenes. Finally before Jay and Silent Strike Back came out Smith made the hilarious movie Dogma which was pure genious and mocked religion in every which way. Then we get to Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back which was just an all out comedy that is filled with hilarious moments throughout the whole flick. However you might not like this film if you didn't like Smith's previous works. one more note This movie is filled with inside jokes from all the other Jersey Flicks however even if you haven't seen the other movies you will still laugh. OVERALL- 10/10 *****/*****  "},{"Title":"A little bit dissapointing, but still good.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, I'm a huge fan of Kevin Smith and I love every single movie he made this far. This one I wasn't able to watch in theatres, just when it has been released, so I had to wait for DVD. From people who watched it, I heard mostly pretty positive and pleased opinions, but still I was kinda afraid to watch it, because I could be dissapointed. And today, I finally had seen it.So, what can I say? First thing that came into my mind. I liked the movie, and I even think that this is one of the funniest and the most succesful comedies of year 2001. Plus it was also sort of saying good-bye to Kevin's New-Jersey's series. Smith made a pretty good job, making the laughing stock of those endlessly repousse Hollywood blockbusters and also parodizing his previous works. But that fine satire and splendid humor which his movies like Mallrats and Chasing Amy were about, are lost. Therefore, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is nothing more than just a typical, but hilarious comedy.Actors didn't impressed me too musch (except Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith of course), but what did impressed me is almost poetical pervasive using of bad language. Jason Mewes is amazing in this, especially his song in the begining of the movie -)))Very good comedy, but could be dissapointing for some fans of Kevin (like me). So there's my advice to you, if you still haven't seen the movie, don't wait from this show a comedy equal to Clerks, Dogma or Mallrats. It's different, but still very good.I'm giving 9 of 10 for the movie, but because of my huge respect to Kevin Smith, I'd better make it...10/10 "}{"Title":"Hilarious and unsubtle","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I admit, i'm a fanboy. This movie is the last chapter of Kevin Smith New Jersey trilogy and in a way it is sad. On the other hand, the Jay and Silent Bob duo has probably reached the end of its effective life.This movie is a guilty pleasure. Inasmuch as I can appreciate the subtle irony of Ghost World or the imagery of Errol Morris, I love to run to my basement and watch J&SBSB. People can say whatever they like, fart jokes and titty jokes are the true roots of humor ;-) In that way, J&SBSB goes back to the root of humor, hitting the common denominator of all viewers.This movie is filled with inside jokes and references to previous ViewAskew movies. As such, it is preferable to first see Clerks and Dogma.I'm waiting for the next Kevin Smith movie -) "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies Ever","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen. The Good Will Hunting parody is done to perfection and is the best part of the movie. Also the cameo from Jason Biggs is hillarious. I also liked the Mark Hamil cameo, when he fights Kevin Smith in the Star Wars scene. It was also great how they managed to tie it in to all of his other movies.Plus the movie had great looking women as well. Plus , when I watched the DVD, i discovered that one of the girls in the gang is Kevin Smith's wife. Man is she hot!I give this movie a 10/10 and I reccommend it to anyone who is looking for a laugh. Plus I reccommend that you buy the DVD as soon as it comes out, because it is a great 2 disc set that has 41 deleted scenes, two featurettes, two music videos, a gag reel, and much more. "},{"Title":"This movie is a riot!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. Even though it is corny, it is great. I'm buying it as soon as it is released on DVD. Jay and Silent Bob are the 2 funniest characters ever created, and Jason Mewes, and Kevin Smith play off each other like they act like that in real life. The language may be offensive to some, but if you aren't offended by that then check it out now! "},{"Title":"kevin smith is a genius","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  although this movie isnt quite up to the usual standard that Kevin smith normally graces us with, it is nonetheless still very,very amusing.i had hoped however,to see more of the other characters in smiths previous films.my favourite of these being Brodie Bruce. mallrats was my first view askew experience,resulting in my searching frantically for Clerks, i've been hooked ever since. All of HIS films have been masterpieces,including this one.if you take it for what it is and what it always claimed to be then you wont be disappointed.if we dont dissect it as we have previously to HIS other films then it is a thoroughly amusing and clever movie.i've been wondering when suzanne would pop up again,that really cracked me up.i remember watching Scream 3 and seeing Jay and silent Bob and practically screaming THATS JAY AND SILENT BOB!!!!!!!all i gained was plenty of puzzled looks all sayingwho?I need some new friends.i just cant believe this is the last installment of his undeniable genius.im sure all you die hard kevin smith fans will agree that we'll never see this genius again,unless, of course he graces us with more of his wit and intelligence in the future. heres hoping.KEVIN SMITH, YOU ARE A GOD!! "},{"Title":"a different path for kevin smith","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great film, even if it lacks something.  Some one who has never tredged the askew universe will find this hilarious, and as a stand alone comedy it's definetly up there with some of the best.  Kevin smith fans however will look at this film completely differently, comapring it to his previous offerings and needlessly disecting a pretty good film.'Strike back' doesn't set out to give the brilliantly written, humorous and insightful dialogue of the past smith films, or provide the same intricate plots, but instead relies on what jay and silent bob do best -  fast running, non stop, low brow comedy.  And in that respect it can't be faulted, the movie is hilarious.  it contains plenty of straight out jokes, inside humour and silly slapstick to make anyone laugh continuously for the full hour and a half.The plot line is a little thin, and could definetly have been improved to give the movie some more substance, and i would have loved to have seen more of jeff anderson in this movie.  His role in clerks secures it as my favorite of the kevin smith films and i was disappointed he and brian o' halloran didn't get a bigger slice of the plot to reproduce their fantastic chemistry on the big screen.  That said, many of the familiar faces are back again with some great lines, full marks going to chris rock who made me laugh my head off.The only other glitch i can give the film is at times it does have a rather sell out feel to it, particularly with some of the sound track and the projection of jay and bob.  In past films jay loves himself and it was funny, because however much he believes it, he isn't.  But in this film jay gets respect from other sensible players and it takes away from the realism of his character, he's still doing the same 'i am gods gift to the earth' routine, but this time the film and the other characters actually treat him like he is.  Jay starts rapping -  music plays along.  jay trys to outsmart the police force - he gets away with it.  jay is his usual asshole self - a beautiful woman falls in love with him.  we lose all sense that he is god in his own little stoner world and he gets projected as if you really can be that moronic and get ahead in life.That said, although this is by no means the best smith film ever, it's a fantastic comedy and a nice touch to see something a little different. Kevin smith has managed to produce a saga spanning five films, three comics and even his own action figures all linked with little inside jokes and crossovers but still making everything totally different so your never digesting the same thing again.  if you've never heard of kevin smith then you'll love this movie to bits, if you are a smith fan then you should just switch off your expectations and watch it for what it is.  The film knows it isn't clerks or chasing amy (it even takes shots at itself throughout) so you shouldn't think of it in the same light.  A great film and a brilliant comedy, and to all the smith fans who badmouthed it, you KNOW your gonna buy it as soon as it comes out on video.  A nice big 8/10 "},{"Title":"The most funniest film I have ever seen...","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a  must see film, it has very funny lines and has a great cast of people, it also includes that Nadia chick off American Pie, and Stiffler off American Pie but he doesn't have a big role, but if you liked clerks,mall rats, chasing amy, and dogma then you will love this film.) I think it is more looking at the age group of 16-25 but.. what would I know? Older people might like films with the words smoochie boochies, but I think is a decision every person must make for themselves. "},{"Title":"The Best Adult Comedy Film of 2001","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was bound to all come together in a single movie for Kevin Smith. It's an adult level comedy like I haven't seen before. Congrats to Kevin Smith for creating a world in his head that actually works for people with brains. "},{"Title":"Oh","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my GODDDD!!!! This movie was just one of the worst plot lines that i've seen in AGES! But dispite that, i also found this to be one of the most funny that i've seen, there are bits in this movie which had me in hysterics, it was THAT funny!I can't really say much about the story line coz it was bad, and also the acting at times was slightly flaky (BEN AFFLECK) but there are some bits in this movie which if u have seen (and more to the point understood) all the other movies, then u will just find hysterical, i can't use any other word coz it is the only word that i think can cope with this movie.*WARNING!!!* *SPOLIERS* *WARNING!!!*As already mentioned, the storyline of this is flaky and dull, two guys crossing amercia in order to kick the crap outta people who don't like them? And also meeting up with varouis different people on the way.. (Princess Leia herself and BUDDY CHRIST!!!) Some bits in this movie were simply crass, like the pie-guy scene with James van-der-berk and whatshisface.Also other bits such as follow the rules guys man... Oh dear indeed. I thought that this movie was plain and well, kinda shallow but GOD it was FUNNY!!!! I loved the sheer amount of people that they put into this, FAITH!!! My FAV on-screen B*TCH and also Shannon Doheroty? (i know i spelt it wrong!)What this movie lacks in a good plot and also good acting, it more than makes up for with simple gags and plain funny stuff, i thought that this movie has some of the best lines i've EVER heard in a movie.You speak pretty loudly for a man who dresses like Shaft but gets SHAFTED every night... Brody complains Well i certainly don't hear your b*tch ass complaining every nightOh dear God, that made me laugh so much in the cinema.The main problem that i can see with this movie is that plain and simple you would have to have seen all the other movies in order to understand a good 75% of the movies gags, there are some that you'll get if you haven't seen them, but if i'm honest, if you haven't seen and enjoyed all of his movies then i wouldn't really tell you to go see this coz you won't understand it (Go and see this if you love Kevin Smith, he is by far one of my more fav directors becoz he is SO FUNNY! I loved this movie and i would give it a 11 outta 10!!! "},{"Title":"comedy genius","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There was never a point in this film where I could stop laughing for more than a few seconds. OK, so it's juvenile and low-brow, but surely the main purpose of a comedy is to make 'em laugh? Jay and Silent Bob are creations of genius, and thoroughly deserved the opportunity to prove that they could handle their own flick. Anyone who was expecting a film with moral or theological undertones ala Dogma or Chasing Amy may be disappointed, but J&SBSB has no pretensions of that nature, instead admitting that it is merely a vehicle for good,unclean fun. I defy anyone not to love the scene where Matt Damon and Ben Affleck good-heartedly mock themselves in Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season. To concludeWatch this film. You will laugh. PS Anyone who dares to criticise the movie - You know that Jay and Silent Bob are coming round your house to kick some ass! "},{"Title":"Great movie.....nothing less then what I would expect!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great movie.....nothing less then what I would expect!  I only hope they change there mind and make another movie with Jay and Silent BOB!   Had Shannon Elizabeth or Eliza Dukushu gotten naked it would have been a 10! I would highly suggest this movie to anyone who saw any of there previous flicks, and enjoyed them at all!   "}{"Title":"Dumb, Really Funny","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mongoloid sea sprinkled with islands of pure genius. Half the time you and the director are laughing at the film, the rest of the time you're just laughing on the floor of the theater. Fantastic cameo for the Scooby Doo characters. "},{"Title":"In the Wake of Teenage Movies.........","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the late 80's and early 90's, the slacker duo has been a funny concept in teenage movies. However while some slacker duo's get there own movies, (eg Bill and Ted, Wayne and Garth, Beavis and Butthead) Kevin Smith's creation never got treated with one. While you people will not have to wait for any longer, here is Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back.The movie revolves around the two darkly dressed stoners/drug dealers who finds out that a movie is being made about them, and they want to stop the movie from being made. So from New Jersey, they hitchhike a lift to Hollywood. But on the way to L.A., their plans are interrupted by a bunch of bisexual, leather clad, foxy jewel thieves, an orangutan and some guy called Cock-Knocker. This is to name a few of the characthers. The movie is a great tribute to one of the great post modern comedy duos. It concides all of Kevin Smith movies, and takes the p*** of some movies, especially Miramax movies. Also the funniest part is when Ben Affleck and Matt Damon takes the p*** out of each other for their bad movie choices to be in.This movie is the funniest that i have seen all year, but it is a pity that not many people in Britain does not notice how funny Kevin Smith's movies are. If only they knew.  "},{"Title":"Who smokes the blunts?","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was definitely a must see for Kevin Smith/Jay&Silent Bob fans. It was one of the funniest movies I saw all year and I can't wait til it comes out on video or DVD.This film never once promised to be anything more than it was, not even from the trailers or previews. If you were expecting something else entirely, blame yourself, not Mr. Smith. I never had unrealistic expectations. Jay and Silent Bob are the main characters, forchrissake. This was such a funny movie, with its slapstick comedy, situational comedy, inside jokes, girls in leather, blunts and monkeys!Don't expect an epiphany after you see this movie, but don't be surprised if you can't stop laughing.What buzz?   The internet buzz.   What the f*** is the internet?! "},{"Title":"Pure Kevin Smith","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Easily one of the funniest films I have ever seen, J&SBSB is comedy at its best. It blends the slapstick of Mallrats, with the incisiveness of Clerks, and the laugh out loud-ness of Dogma and Chasing Amy.I wouldn't say it is Kevin Smith's best film, but really, of the five films he has made, they are all excellent, and this just enhances his reputation. Sure, the moral majority may baulk at certain elements of the film (just like with Dogma), but who cares about them? This film is great.SPOILERS are here, by the way. The GWH2 scene is possibly the best, although the Star Wars parody is equally as funny.All the cameos are great, especially Ben Affleck and Jason Lee, reprising their previous Smith roles as Holden, and Bankie/Brodie respectively.It does come off as a kind of rip-off of Cheech & Chong's Next Movie (also highly recommended), but this is much better, and does actually have a cohesive storyline behind it, although it is forgotten at various points during the film, but that doesn't matter when you get to see Shannon Elizabeth and co in cat suits.I would say that to get the best out of this film, you would have to have seen the other Smith films, as it is heavily self-referential, and all the better for it. Chasing Amy is still my favourite, but this is a very close second. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"slapstick and one liners at their very best.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has developed into one of Americas most original and consistantly funny writer/directors and this farewell to his most dearly loved creations, Jay and Silent Bob, is just as finely crafted and beautifully executed as his more intelligent films such as Dogma.My advice to you is to go and watch this film. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith Delivers Again!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is pure genius on the part of Kevin Smith, who again has delivered us with another great comedy!!! Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma are pure quality but Jay and Silent Bob have something different to offer like 277 swear words, (the most in a movie this year)also Shannon Elizabeth,Eliza Dushku, Ali Larter and K Smith's mrs all in tight leather suits yum yum and cameos from Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill who has one of the best character names in a movie of recent years.  Many more cameos appear Gus van Sant and Wes Craven to mention a few!!I thought that the genius of KS shone through when he brought in other characters from his other movies my favourite being Matt Damon and Ben Affleck having a argument with each other while shooting Good Will Hunting 2 Hunting Season!!I recommend this movie to Kevin Smith Fans but also its just a great slapstick road trip comedy for adults!!! So if u have seen it I hope you agree if not get to the cinema A.S.A.P and c one of the funniest movies of the year.P.S. Taking the mick out the original Planet of the Apes pure genius KS!!! L8rs "},{"Title":"What a fantastic end to the Jay and Silent Bob series","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first entered the cinema I was a bit concerned that there was only myself and my friends. I thought maybe the excellence of Kevin Smith hadn't made much of an impact overseas. By the time the film started however the cinema was packed - not an empty seat in the place. There was something in the film for every Kevin Smith fan. Some have complained that there are too many in-jokes but that's what I wanted to see, a film made for the fans. They weren't only Kevin Smith film in-jokes, they included parodies on ET, Star Wars and Planet of the Apes which any filmgoer will recognise. I thought that Jason Mewes was superb. He carried the whole film on his shoulders and may I say how well carried it was. Silent Bob's outburst on the dam was a true piece of comedy cinema and I shall include it in my top comedy moments of all time (the simple ones are the best). I, unlike most people it would seem, love all of his films equally. They all stand out strongly as individual films and as a series. Jay and Silent Bob finished things off perfectly, tying up every lose end. I'm looking forward to the Clerks animated film! "},{"Title":"A load of self referential dick and fart jokes...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...But what did you expect from Jay and Silent Bob's big send off? Smith's characters finally go out with a bang (and make a big point of saying so). It's not The Godfather, it's not even Clerks, but at least it it's better than Mallrats. "},{"Title":"Heavenly hilarious","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Statement THIS FILM RULES Motivations  - megagood hilarious dialoguesThe adventures they have are so funny the people in the cinema looked at me with a strange compassionate look while i was holding my stomach before the screen because i couldn't stop laughing. Then the psychiatrists came and get me. So this film can be dangerous if you like good comedy-movies GO SEE IT,STOP READING GO GO GO!!!!! vilnius from belle-vue. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just seen the movie ... One of Kevin Smith's best, Great parodies of some movies and the whole idea of Hollywood.The only thing that lets the movie down for me is Chris Rock's increadibly unfunny performance as a white hating director that ruins the whole movie for me !The Scooby-doo sequence is hillarious as well as the hams to camera that has come straight out of Mel Brooks bag of tricks.Waiting for the next installment of Jay and Silent Bob. "}{"Title":"Should Have Been A Comic Book!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith has ultimately disappointed me with his last two films (this and Dogma). Clerks is one of my favourite movies ever, Mallrats is a damned fine movie and Chasing Amy shows that Kev can do emotional work aswell! Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back just seems to amble from one in-joke to the next, taking in a slew of high profile cameos that just seem thrown together to appeal to the mass audience.I never thought I'd say it but I'm glad the Askewniverse is finally over. It's such a shame it went out with such a whimper of a film. I just hope Kevin Smith can work well outside of these characters. "},{"Title":"Will they come to kick my ass if I say their movie stinks?","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  However, ... it is a type of humor you should like, otherwise I would advice you not to see it. But if you liked Dogma, I would advice you to better run away and buy your ticket right NOW!Another thing very special about this movie is how they try to interact with the audience. I'm used to it from the theater, where the actors always try to interact with the audience, its a bit strange to see that in a movie ... but well, I liked it! "},{"Title":"Only True Askew Fans Will Fully Appreciate This Flick","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This flick is exactly what Kevin Smith promised, a laugh out loud movie with so many Askew in jokes that there were laughs through almost every frame.This road trip movie was extremely funny with knock out performances By Mewes, Rock, Affleck, Lee, and of course Smith.Do yourself a favor and go get familiar with all the other Askew flicks so you can enjoy this joke laden movie. There's also a few takes from the Chasing Dogma book that i was happy to see in live action. Ive said it b4 and ill keep on saying it. Kevin Smith is one on the most talented Film Makers around, and although this flick wasn't as deep as say, Chasing Amy or Dogma, it did deliver to the fans what KS promised.......a fu*#in funny movie Great Job guys. I'm sad to see the end of Jay & Silent Bob, but they were great while they were here. Cant wait for Kevin's next movie Jersey Girl, which I know will also be great. Snoogans (I know it means Just Kidding but i like saying it anyway).   "},{"Title":"That's the Kevin Smith we missed!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After the let-down of Chasing Amy and the patchy Dogma, you'd think that he'd lost it.  But JSBSB more than makes up for it.Packed with typical Smith quotability, oozing references, and more cameos than anyone could keep up with, this is a fitting end to the View Askewniverse cycle, as well as the only film to leave me needing medical attention due to laugh-induced injuries since, well, Mallrats.How my friends envy me that I caught it in New York this summer, while it won't get a UK release for several months yet... "},{"Title":"More like an mallrats 2......","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But I liked Mallrats and I think this is a pretty funny film. Its much more funny if you have seen Kevin Smiths other filmsClerks Mallrats,Chasing Amy and Dogma.Jay and Silent Bob strikes back is filled with cheap dick and fart jokes(wich is pretty funny).RATING4 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Possibly the funniest film of the year!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  10/10This possibly the funniest film of the year.  Kevin Smith has made an absolutely funny movie about the two slackers from New Jersey.  It all started with the highly innovative Clerks and ends with crudely funny Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  Anyways, the slackers from the beginning find out there's a  film  being made about them; Chronic and Bluntman.  When they don't get any of the profit from the film, they head to Hollywood to prevent the silly movie from getting made. Along the way they meet a variety of characters from dumb*ssses to ultra-cools.Let me say right off the bat this far funnier than your American Pie 2, Rat Race, and Rush Hour 2.  The reason I'm saying this is because this movie is filled with great guffaws. It include fart jokes, hollywood in-jokes, physical humor, hot babes, kool movie references and a great romance angle.Jason Mewes, Jay, steals the show with his obnoxious, arrogant personality. While Kevin Smith, Silent Bob, gives us more of his looks he expands on the acting with of few of his quirks.  Rest of the cast  performs solid. For the females Shannon Elizabeth shows off her goofy side of her acting. Telling us she's more than average pom pom girl.In conclusion, you should flock to your movie theatre to catch the funniest film of the year or you'll be sorry! Note- You need to catch all of the Kevin Smith's films in order to understand the some the sophisticated humor sprinkled through the film starting with (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma) "},{"Title":"One hell of a flic","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best movie that your highness Kevin Smith made so far. All his previous movies are related to it. If you've seen his movies so far you'll love this picture, dudes. it's really a brillant script. And the  characters rule. So watch it, it doesn't get any better than this.  "},{"Title":"Laughing With and At Hollywood","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is the latest Askewniverse movie by Kevin Smith, and probably the last.  But it is certainly the funniest!  I enjoyed all the movie references and spoofs, whether they were of Kevin's four other movies or not.  And he injected a healthy dose of self-parody, as well as of Hollywood and the indie scene.  Personally, I hope this is not the last movie appearance of Jay and Silent Bob.  I'd be happy to see them in a cameo of another movie.  Kevin Smith has made a great icon of those two! "},{"Title":"one of Kevins  best movies yet","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ok to start off I loved the movie I thought it was very funny the jokes were off the charts.Im a 14 year old girl and the the people on E! said only teenage boys would enjoy it but I loved it.To really understand it you have to see all the others thats what makes it so compelling.I heard that this is the end of everything I think  Kevin should'nt stop he is a very good writer and director when it comes to jay and slient bob movies.I cant wait to see what he has in store for us in the years to come  but in the mean time keep it up. Noochie Noochie "},{"Title":"He Does It Again...","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a film... If you liked his other films (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma) Then you will LOVE this film.  its like one big get together of all the people from his past films, as they chase across the USA to stop the making of their own film )Shannon Elizabeth makes a good Entrance heck its just a good film!!! Funny is an understatement!go see it! "}{"Title":"An awesome treat for us Smith fans!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Included in this hilarious fandango is virtually every character and every actor to ever appear in Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, and Dogma. These are director Kevin Smith's other great movies and they all contain two slackers Jay and Silent Bob. Now, they have their own movie, and it is one wild ride from start to finish. I suggest you see all the films above before even attempting to find out what everyone in the theatre is laughing about. Kevin Smith has done something that makes a creator a truly great one make something only fans would get and cherish.     9/10 "},{"Title":"Stop stealing monkeys!!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  if you want comedy go see Jay and Silent Bob Strike back! therewasnt a moment when i wasn't laughing!  SPOILER ALERT! my personal favorite part was with the Scooby Doo gang.  i lovedwhen Jay said you guys need to turn those frowns upside down!and i got just the thing for ya,we call 'em Doobie snacks!! thatwhole scene was awesome!the whole cock-knocker, thing wasthe best!! i cant wait for this to come out on video. (Affleck WAS thebomb in phantoms!) "},{"Title":"If you don't like this Your simply too highly strung","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road trip, American pie and all the batch of flat out mindless comedy movies of the past years have all had a certain audience in mind, and this is no exception and a knowledge of Smith's previous films will make this film more enjoyable for all the little easter eggs he put into it ;) You dont have to be a fanboy to appreciate it, yes some jokes are rude, some jokes are crude but hey If you like those jokes the same as me you'll be rolling in the aisles.  I suppose if there was one critical point for me to make it would be I wanted to see more of Eliza Dushku but there we go maybe i'm just a letch.Have fun watching this film like I did and Ignore those Stuck up GLAAD protesters they couldn't see a joke if it bit down on them like a pit-bull "},{"Title":"Another fine film by Kevin Smith","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you found Clerks awkward and boring, Mallrats simplistic, Chasing Amy homophobic and shallow, and Dogma stupid, you will hate this movie.But for those of us who enjoy these Kevin Smith flicks, you will not be disappointed.Kevin Smith has mastered the fine art of developing a film in a series, that stands out on its own; that is, one does not have to have seen any of the other movies for Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back to make sense. Once again this movie is not merely a repeat or extension of another; it is distinctive in that it focusses on Jay and Silent Bob as no other movie has before, and thus, will appeal to a wider (and younger) audience.I have read on this board that GLAAD is protesting this film, and have searched the Internet (including GLAAD's website) for some confirmation, and have found none. Indeed, I support the work of GLAAD and would have been disappointed if they had labelled this movie as 'homophobic'.Yes, there are many references to homosexuality, homosexual acts, and so forth- and they are often for comic relief- but Kevin Smith does so not to attack gay people (after all, his films feature a relatively large proportion of gay characters, who have all been interesting and largely non-stereotypical); instead, he is poking fun at homophobes/heterosexists, and contemporary society's fixation on and stereotyping of sexual orientation.There were parts of the movie I did not like. I found the overuse of sexualizing the female characters redunant and boring (i.e. the two minute wannabe porno shots, which I am guessing, is also making fun of our society's treatment of women). And sometimes I too get tired of fart jokes.But all in all, this movie will please individuals who have enjoyed Kevin Smith's previous movies, and is well worth the $8 to go see it.  "},{"Title":"I am the C.L.I.T. commander!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are very few comedy flicks that have made me laugh out loud, even if I thought they were funny.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was one of the elite few.  I laughed long.  I laughed hard.  I think my girlfriend, with whom I saw the movie, was laughing at my laughing.  And here I am today, nearly a week after seeing the movie, and STILL laughing at some of the jokes.  I don't know if this says something about the quality of this movie, or worse, about my taste in comedy!  Either way, this movie was just plain hilarious.  Anyone who wouldn't be offended by anything less than an anvil falling on their head would also find this movie to be hilarious, just as I did.Just as an aside....Some people have actually made reviews of this movie that would be more appropriate for something like Shawshank Redemption or some other meaningful flick.  Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is a mindless, meaningless flick that deserves no literary review whatsoever.  It was meant to be slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"Nice to see that most people have good taste","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Firstly, I can't wait to see what Mr Smith comes up with nextSecondly I asked my girlfriend to watch this with me and she was glad that she did, damn, she laughed more than me! There are some things that couples should do together. Great film, loved it so much that it made me post this. "},{"Title":"A satire and a parody","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *May Contain Spoilers*From the opening title till the end credit this film works as both a satire and a parody. The parody is more obvious and include movies like 'Batman & Robin', 'Star Wars','E.T' and more. But the strength of the movie lie in its satiric side. The film mocks the way Hollywood make films, especially how Miramax makes movies(and praises go to the Weinstein brothers who agreed to produce this film). It mocks the way Hollywood choose the film it produce, its way of making sequels, the way the directors act on the set,casting decision(somewhere towards the end there is a remark about the fact that Miramax have Dame Judi Dench in any of their films,no matter what role it is and for how long. Sarcastic but true) and charcters changes due to casting decisions.Writer/director/star Kevin Smith has always strike me as someone who is strong with words and there is no exception here. He use the parody and the satire to convey some nice ideas. Like the power of the Internet, the fact that Hollywood has a problem to find good original ideas and therefore go to any source availible, even if it is of mediocre origin and more which the place here is too short to list them all. He add to that a directing that give the film the fast track it needs to become as hilarious as the film is.One last point is the accusation that the film is Homophobic. As a gay man I didn't feel that the film was Homophobic. Actually I think is been critic of the homophobia the exist in Hollywood and the fact that stars will do anything to hide their been gay, and some of them will turn Homophobic if it serve their purpose.In short, this is an hilarious film which should be seen by anyone and can be enjoyed in any level. The combination of parody and satire work here to its best effect. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith has betrayed cinema and all those serious experts who found sense in his initial three features","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith`s latest effort shamelessly stomps his already crippled New Jersey mythology of Jay, Bob, etc. characters that used to make sense in CLERKS or CHASING AMY. JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK is the last payday flick from a tired author whose inspiration expired as soon as real life ceased to be film-worthy. Sad... "},{"Title":"with new standards for awfulness in all categories.....","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ahhh, I could say so very, very much about this blatant grab for your entertainment dollar, dear reader!  The fact is the actors in this movie make no pretense that this flick is anything but that, and indeed it is a bad joke within the movie.   Bad or no acting, poorly done sets, and a general contempt for the viewer all serve to place this movie within my files as among the lowliest of the low.If profanity without purpose is your thing, then you shall be thrilled within the first minute of the film.  If  bathroom jokes flip your switch, then dear movie-goer you shall find fulfillment.  If however, you are not an early teen seeking your place in the universe through banal snickering at such, you should not see this film.  It has no redeeming value except its brazen grab for your money.In the spirit of the film I shall now address Silent Bob  You want to hunt me down and pay me a visit?  You and Jay bring it on!  After I kick your ____,  you can kiss my ____. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Out!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a talented writer/director.  He has a knack for witty dialogue, which shows in his previous four films.  I wasn't a big fan of Dogma, but I loved Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy.  Three out of four ain't bad at all.  Many criticize Kevin's films for being utterly tasteless, but I still disagree.  Though the characters in his movies use a good deal of profanity and the humor is pretty racy, the vulgarity's often handled in a mature, non-gratuitous manner.  The most tasteless gag I've seen in one of his movies was the s**t monster in Dogma.  We have now concluded the Jersey Trilogy (though this is the fifth installment) with this mindless filthfest which contradicts all of Kevin's ingenious work. All of the characters from the previous chapters of the Trilogy are brought together and satirized in the most lazy, disappointing way.  Jay and Silent Bob is simply a juvenile, profane, immature comedy that tries to disguise itself with Hollywood satire and a cast of multi-talented actors.  Why they actually approved of this dumber-than-dumb script?  I don't know.For all those people who believed the characters of Jay and Silent Bob wouldn't be able to carry a feature-length movie all on their own--this is where you're permitted to tell me I told you so.  Yes, I had faith in the two (previously) beloved characters.  The reason why they were beloved? Because we only had to see them for a total of 10-25 minutes.  The character of Silent Bob doesn't annoy me for obvious reasons, but I found out that Jay proves to be one of the MOST ANNOYING CHARACTERS IN MOVIE HISTORY!!!  He has Tom Green Syndrome.  He's hysterical all right...if taken in small doses. Was anybody laughing the millionth-or-so time he asked Shannon Elizabeth if she wanted to f**k?  It was funny in Dogma when he kept putting the moves on Linda Fiorentino, because the joke didn't run its course.  Here...it ran WAYYYY pass its course!  For 110 whole minutes Jay would not once shut the f**k up!!!!!!  In the scene where Silent Bob finally raises his voice and tells him off--I WAS LITERALLY APPLAUDING!!  I was ready for Silent Bob to stuff a sock down Jay's throat, so the film can be re-titled Bob and Silent Jay Strike Back.I've seen millions of R-rated movies in my lifetime.  I can watch Pulp Fiction over and over again without a flinch.  But everything in life has its boundaries.  As far as profanity goes, this film went way past the boundary, proclaiming it the filthiest movie of all time!  I've never heard more frequent, graphic uses of foul language in my life!  Not to mention an abundance of absolutely tasteless sex jokes with not a bit of structure. Watch the snowballing scene from Clerks and that'll prove to you that sexual humor can be handled with great structure.  Kevin decided to sacrifice his knack for dialogue, and simply riddle the whole film with four-letter words--LITERALLY!!  Oh no, my mistake.  C**ksucker has ten letters and p**sy has five letters.  Sorry I spoiled it for you guys.  I just gave away all the film's dialogue.  As for the satirical gags...Kevin totally misses the mark with such cheap shots.  We're reduced to watching Matt Damon and Ben Affleck insult each other's films.  The only one who actually made me laugh in this comedic lemon is SNL's Will Ferell, a highly-skilled comic actor who makes the most of whatever material's handed to him.  Aren't you the lucky one, Will?  Out of the cast of, like, a hundred big-time stars you're the one saving grace.I'll just give you a sample of the film's intellectual humor  In one scene this group of hot chicks--Shannon Elizabeth, Eliza Dushku and Ali Larter--get into skintight, Bond girl-type outfits and do backflips over a series of laser security lights.  Sounds great, so far.  Then, out of the blue, the beautiful Ali Larter rips a huge fart.  First of all  girls farting--not funny; disturbing, yes.  Second of all, the gag was totally uncalled for and simply an excuse to smother us with more fart jokes.  And here's another sample  After reading an angry letter, critizing the characters of Jay and Silent Bob, Jay replies with a letter telling them to eat their s**t, then s**t out their s**t and so on and so on.  The point is the s words is used over and over and over again in the most sickening, tasteless manner.  That definitely wins the award for Most Tasteless Monologue in Movie History.I've seen tons of profane movies in my life, but this is one I actually find horribly offensive.  A comedy like this makes Dude Where's My Car look like Shakespeare.  I understand that there are films out there that aren't meant to be deep and sophisticated, but even shallow films need a good dose of wit and originality to make them worth watching.  In the Bill and Ted movies, the characters may have been stupid, but the writing wasn't.  This is an example of filth for the sake of filth.  Stupidity for the sake of stupidity.  There's only one element missing  THE LAUGHS!  Unless you find ANYTHING having to do with sex or bodily functions funny and have a mind that's stuck in the gutter, this is no more than a complete yuckfest.  Go see American Pie 2!  That's an example of crude and sexual humor handled very nicely, perfectly timed and perfectly delivered.  The way it's supposed to be.  The way John Landis did it back when we were introduced to our first gross-out comedy classic, Animal House.  As I said, as these gross-out comedies increase in popularity, writers/directors have lost their sense of structure and pretty much feel if it's dirty, it's funny.  But I never thought Kevin Smith would sink that low.  Shame on you!This is a first.  The movie I most anticipated this summer turned out to be the worst movie I've seen this summer.  I've gotten disappointed by movies before, but never this much.  After seeing Kevin's first three films and getting introduced to this disastrous finale, who wouldn't?  Don't start using the excuse this movie is strictly for Kevin Smith fans.  True, if you've never seen a Kevin Smith movie before, you won't get the in-jokes. And if you have, you will get the in-jokes; you just won't laugh at them. This is not intended for fans only; this is intended for the most immature audience out there.  Gosh, I can't even laugh AT this movie, because not only is it stupid but it's disgusting.A MUST-MISS!!!!!!!!My score  2 (out of 10)   "}{"Title":"I used to like it","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I thought this movie was funny the first time I saw it, but after reading some of the reviews here, I realized that they sure used the f-word a lot. And there were a lot of gay jokes. Or as someone else posted, anti-gay  jokes. I am unable to see any irony in all these gay jokes. Now I'm offended.  "},{"Title":"This movie made me laugh AND think!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have never seen a movie that is more connected to its audience! Kevin Smith breaks the oldest Hollywood rule (no looking at the camera!) about a half-dozen times during this film, because he knows who YOU are! And we, the audience, know who HE is, and we love his work. If you don't know who the heck Kevin Smith is, why are you even reading this? Well, if you really want to know, rent Clerks and Mallrats and proceed from there.Now, let me talk to those of you who are familiar with the ViewAskew Universe. Go and see this flick, okay? Sure, it's not as slacker/intellectual as Clerks, or as focused on tortured relationships as Chasing Amy. But it has the spark of Mallrats - the movie most  people hated because it was so juvenile. That was exactly why I loved it. It was a return to those cheesy 80's movies that were pure entertainment. Hey, I loved Memento and Pi, but I also loved Dazed & Confused and Big Trouble in Little China! Jay & Silent Bob is in the latter category; it's just for fun! Don't take it too seriously, just sit back and enjoy the ride.As for the gay & lesbian, etc. people who are ripping on this movie Come on. This is the guy who gave you (and all of us) Chasing Amy. Chill. Besides, it's obvious that Jay has some latent homosexual issues to deal with, as was touched on in Dogma with Chris Rock's insights into Jay's mastabatory habits. Now, onto the fun stuff! It's a Cameo-fest! All those old characters are back, like Dante, Randall (my personal fave) and Brodie. It was like seeing old friends again (don't I sound like a loser?), if only briefly. But that's what this movie is about; friends and fun. Also, as I said earlier, this movie is all about establishing a connection between the audience and the fans (and the detractors!). Jay & Silent Bob read some losers'  disparaging comments about them, and decide to put the smack down. At the end of the movie, it's implied that if you write a bad review (on this site, no doubt) about this  movie, Jay & Silent Bob will come to your house and beat you up! How cool is that?! ) In fact, there's a good chance, Kevin and Jason will read this review, which is so weird! The internet has truly brought us all together - and allowed us to say things we wouldn't say to peoples' faces. This movie is a pioneer in the changing dynamics of the audience/filmmaker relationship - and it's basically cutting out the professional movie critic (woohoo!). I could write a dissertation on how this will alter the movie-going/making landscape forever, but screw that. Just go see the movie and when you're not laughing at Jay's foulmouthed antics, think about how the internet is changing our lives in every conceivable way. The movie itself can be uneven. In fact, some parts drag on and seem a little unnecessary, like the monkey. I mean, I understand what you were thinking, Kevin; monkeys are pure cinematic gold, like midgets ) but the monkey wasn't that charming. Regardless, 2001 will be remembered as the year of the monkey. At other times, the rough-cut vibe of this flick really works. Like when Jay is fantasizing about kissing Justice (Shannon Elizabeth) the first time he sees her. Jay is totally licking her face and for a brief second you can see Shannon roll her eyes! Funny stuff! I imagine that Jason Mewes talked Kevin into scoring a hot babe for the roll of Justice. I wonder if Jason got to make the final pick. If so, he chose wisely! Chris Rock crackered me up once again as Shaka Luther King. The way he tortured that poor white boy who kept trying to give him coffee was hilarious. And Kevin paid even more homage to Star Wars by featuring cameos by both Carrie Fisher (as a nun) and Mark Hamill, as The CockKnocker, who is apparently a villain in the BluntMan & Chronic comic series.Anyway, the cameos really helped make this movie cool. George Carlin's was good, and Tracy Morgan's was excellent! It was also good to see Matt Damon and Ben Affleck making fun of themselves and each other. I could go on and on. The point being, this movie is star-studded, full of hilarity and stupidity (Jay and Silent Bob are really portrayed as idiots, probably for plot reasons - ganja doesn't make you stupid, just relaxed). Oh, and the Scooby Doo parody was extremely psychotic!Anyway, if you ever read this, drop me a line and tell me what you thought of the movie and my review. Might as well keep the information flowing back & forth. Like in the movie, I believe in breaking down the walls between the audience and the filmmaker. Viva la Revolution! "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith has done it again!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a fan of Kevin Smith movies then this is a 'must see.'  The king of dialogue has written/directed/starred in another classic.  There are crossovers from all of the other movies in this series plus cameos out the yin-yang.  Want a good laugh, go see it; want to have the credit scenes from Mallrats make more sense, go see it.  Nonsesense humor has never been so much fun. "},{"Title":"Grand satire and slapstick comedy","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, Jay and Silent Bob, I love yous guys. I lives near ya in Joyzee, but I never gets to see ya -- except once across the street from yer store. But I saw yer movie. Loved it.Now, to be more sophisticated -- about this movie??? We learn at last the evolution of Jay and Silent Bob from their earliest days in the strollers to their great success as American myths. This is lovely satire -- of Hollywood, of themselves, of life. Yes, it reveals the meaning of life. Or was that DOGMA? Well, the canon of J & SB is always about what it means to exist -- in our time -- on our planet -- in our cosmos. Heavy, dude! After all, this is the classic journey epic -- rags to riches, Jersey to Mirimax.Kevin Smith loves George Lucas. Can you tell? He even has Princess Leah and Luke Skywalker along for the ride this time -- plus an allusion to Han Solo in THE FUGITIVE. (Yeah, I know, Han Solo wasn't in THE FUGITIVE, but you know what I mean.) Not to kiss up or anything to J & SB, but I see in them the classical strains of the Marx Brothers, the 3 Stooges, Abbott & Costello. And they even remember the audience in asides that are reminiscent of Shakespeare -- or a Bugs Bunny cartoon. Like, man, these guys remember that we're out there in the dark theater -- all those wonderful people out there in the dark. I'm ready for my close-up now, J & SB.I had a cow watching this film. Go see it. You'll like it -- unless, HORRORS, you don't like J & SB. "},{"Title":"The Return of the Jay and Silent Bob Do America.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only consistently amusing characters from Kevin Smith's films (films which are not, by any stretch of the imagination, immune to coming out as total garbage) return to the big screen to inspire great big laughs because the film is able to laugh at itself, which is very important with comedies like this. The plot bears striking resemblance to the hilarious Beavis & Butt-Head Do America, but this doesn't take away from the film as a whole or make it seem redundant or even unoriginal because the plot is actually a very small part of the film. It is no secret that Jay and Silent Bob are the reason that we keep getting treated to more films from Kevin Smith (you think he would have gotten any corporate sponsors after that mess Chasing Amy if it weren't for them?), so it's nice that they finally decided to dedicate an entire film to them.The movie as a whole is composed of a series of dirty jokes and a goofball plot that is squashed into obscurity under the hilarious presence of Jay and his famous silent sidekick. Sadly, this is virtually the only thing that the film has going for it. On the nother hand, it's unfortunately ironic that the very thing that made this movie interesting is also the most disappointing part of it - the casting. Obviously, Jay and Silent Bob could never be played by anyone else, but the casting director seems to have gone a little bit overboard with more than a couple of the cameos. I loved seeing James Van der Beek and that idiot Jason Biggs, I thought they both played great roles in this movie (probably because they were making fun of themselves during most of their screen time). These are some of the most recognizable of the recent proliferation of actors who can't act and who have made it into Hollywood by some mysterious manipulation of reality. Van der Beek I can't explain, but I imagine Biggs was found because he was hired to play a part in what could not have been thought to be more than a goofy b-movie comedy, American Pie, and it turned out to be a huge hit, so the producers erroneously thought that he was suddenly a huge star. Whoops.Then you have a great cameo from Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Yeah, these guys proved themselves with Good Will Hunting, which was so good that Affleck can even be forgiven for the ridiculous Armageddon. The best part of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, the way that it pokes fun at Hollywood, comes especially into play into this cameo, as we are treated to a scene from the sequel to Good Will Hunting (`Applesauce!'). Carrie Fisher plays an unenviable role as the nun who picks Jay and Silent Bob when an unfortunate turn of events leaves them stuck as hitchhikers. Seann William Scott, the real comedic source that made movies like American Pie and Road Trip at least slightly amusing, is completely wasted in a role that makes no sense to have him in. He plays a hopeless geek who happens to be traveling with a bunch of hotties (as Roger Ebert would say, no prizes for guessing why he took the role), and there is no reason for him to be in this role other than to put him in the preview and make people think that he will actually do something funny in it, and we are totally disappointed. He is literally thrown out of a moving van and out of the movie before anything even happens.However, it is poor Mark Hamill who is really to be felt sorry for after watching this movie. It is clear from the minute you hear the title that there is going to be some serious Star Wars bashing going on here, but the best spoofs are the ones that make fun of films themselves, not the deflated state of the old stars (if you want to see a brilliant Star Wars spoof, watch Spaceballs). Poor Mark Hamill was one of the main stars of the most successful science fiction series of all time, and a couple decades later he's stuck playing a character called `Cock-knocker' in a goofball comedy with virtually no redeeming values. They even had to put up a huge title card to make sure that people notice that the poor guy underneath all that ridiculous make-up is the fallen sci fi hero. Kevin Smith has NOT earned enough respect to justify smacking Star Wars like that.Jay and Silent Bob is not a movie that is going to be remembered as a great comedy. It's a huge success because the characters have become so famous with junior high school and high school kids all over the world, but there is no content in the film. It fits snugly among movies like the Scary Movies and American Pie and Road Trip and Dude, Where's My Car? With some effort, some amusement and possibly an occasional nervous laugh can be derived from these slopfests (okay, not the Scary Movies, but the rest had their moments), so luckily Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the better films in this ludicrous category (thanks in no small part to the wonderful contribution from Ben Affleck and Matt Damon), but the film is likely to be reduced to bottom shelf oblivion faster than you can say, `For God's sake, Kevin, no more!' "},{"Title":"Snoogans, amazing movie, my fave film!","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This, tied with braindead is my all time fave movie. Its so fun, fast paced none-stop laughs and simply amazing. Great characters, who you gotta love. GREAT CAMEOS As well.Jay/Jason Mewes is my idol, and he is no short of brilliant in this epic movie, and Kevin Smith as silent bob is just funny and lovable by looking at him.And Justice, played by Shannon Elizabeth is just too fine! Seriously, no wonder why jay got so excited in moobies, she plays it fairly decent, as the beautiful, gullible girl. The film starts and ends so fast, because its so amazing, I've seen it uncountable times, and its more amazing every time I watch it. Especially Jay's rap, probably the best song ever written its genius! Its great because its all about pop culture and jay and silent bob. Its cool that old characters came back for this one. Its a well deserved tribute to himself by kevin smith. His finest film.Watch it, seriously, its not just pointless stoner humour its got 'layers' DIT RULES. "},{"Title":"Owned by the supports","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is possibly the best recent comedy I've seen. It's not really the jokes - funny as they are, there's nothing which separates them from the standard teen comedy flick (the good ones, I mean. The jokes are on a par with those in, say, Not Another Teen Movie, but way above those of, say, Scary Movie 2.) The real winning aspect of this film were the faultless performances by the second tier cast. In particular, Eliza Dushku shines as Sissy, the no-nonsense leader of a team of female jewel thieves - in many ways a role similar to a cruder version of her Buffy the Vampire Slayer persona, Faith. Will Ferrell is almost as good as Wildlife Ranger Willenholly, brilliantly pulling off his ineptitude, and delivering the film's best line 'Fuckbeans! That was them, wasn't it?' Chris Rock is the typically reverse-racist African American director of 'Bluntman and Chronic,' and gleefully makes a scene. Shannon Elizabeth is finally given a good role (as opposed to American Pie's eastern European bombshell, Nadia) and shows that she doesn't have to be type-casted into personality-free roles. 'As himself' cameos from Jason Biggs, James van der Beek, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon also go down a treat, and in the end it's only Seann William Scott whose secondary character annoys. And, of course, take nothing away from Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith, whose characters and acting are top notch for the genre.Most teen movies I tire of; this one I don't. Quality. "},{"Title":"What can you say...","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...about this film that hasn't been said. Well one thing check it out at your local video rental store. Why? Because you will have to go through this movie frame by frame to catch some of the gags in it. Examples are the poster at the 'comic stash' behind Jason Lee , The 'Brain plug installation - the Provasic way' poster in the animal lab(Provasic ? Remember that name from 'The Fugitive'?), the 'experiment' detailed under Suzannes name tag on her cage, the posturing of Mooby the Cow which mirrors Buddy Christ from Dogma, and countless more.Speaking of Dogma The cross references to all the other View Askew movies are so ubiquitous that you hardly can catch them all, right down to the poses and props of the 'clerks' which are 100% in sync with those of the movie of the same name. Every name and every reference is there for a purpose. Try to spot any movie name or similar said as an aside, and you will notice that they are all references to things said in earlier movies of the 'Jersey Trilogy' So why do I like this move? I'm not a fan of fart or gay jokes. Neither am I a fan of 'stupid buddy' movies like 'Dumb and dumber' or 'Bill and Ted' or 'Dude, where's my car?'. But this movie is unique. It's for the fan. For the person who looks for the detail. For the person who gets sick at 'Greedo shooting first' and all the other small things that make movies either a hit or a flop. It's for he fan who enjoys the recollection of fun moments by a gesture, a quote or an outright homage to another movie. It's for the fan who likes to have his brain activated while watching - this is why this movie is surprisingly mentally stimulating even though its content is mostly inane.Ultimately it's not the story, nor the cast that make a movie a hit - it's the depth of the picture. It's how much you get the feeling that this is not just 'make believe' to get you to shell out a few bucks, but the feeling that here are people having fun by doing what they want to do - and letting you in on it. This is why Star Wars worked, and this is why this movie works. There is depth here (No, I am not comparing the quality of Star Wars to this movie - don't even think that for a second). But in Star Wars it was the feeling that the characters have lived in this universe for a long time, and here it's similar. Through the other movies we get the feeling that here is a background community. A history from which the action unfolds. We as fans are privy to that history - and the fact that this history isn't spelled out to any schmuck who wanders into this movie makes it all the more sweet.Of course the cast must meet minimum standards, and I am surprised at how excellent Jason Mewes plays his part (from life). At no point do you get the feeling that he is being played to the wall by the big names around him. All 'round they do a pretty good job of it (as most of them have done in the other Kevin Smith movies).The story? Not important. It's just a vehicle for shuffling our heroes from one goofy situation to the next - and it does this exceedingly well. There's no lengths, no parts you want to skip upon rewatching, and that is very rare these days. Everywhere you have Smith's trademark long, convoluted and vocabulary laden monologues and dialogs going on, which I have fallen in love with since his treatise on 'subcontractors on the Death Star' in 'Clerks'.I recommended this to a friend who hadn't seen any of the other movies in the series, and he loved it. Then he went out and watched the others. When he got back and THEN rewatched J&SBSB he just said WOW.And that's about the best one word summary I can give this movie WOW.10/10 "},{"Title":"Most likely the most funny movie I've ever seen!","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jay and Silent Bob appear in quite a lot of movies. It all started with Clerks, then movies like Mall Rats and Chasing Amy. They even appeared in Scream 3. Dick and fart jokes, that only stoners laugh at. - that is how they describe their humor, but then again - most of the world would be bored stoners then. When I first saw Mall Rats, I was fascinated by the extremely funny characters, Jay and Silent Bob - and then whtn I found out that they just made their own movie, I simply HAD to get it! It's the best in the series of movies in the same universe with the same people. The movies doesn't have a lot in common, except Jay and Silent Bob and the great humor that Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) puts into his movies as the director of all the Jay and Silent Bob movies. Now when more and more people start to enjoy the movies with Jay and Silent Bob, famous actors like Ben Affleck (Good Will Hunting, Phantoms), Matt Damon (Good Will Hunting, The Bourne films, Saving Private Ryan), Shannon Elizabeth (American Pie), Will Farrell (Saturday Night Live, A Night At The Roxbury), Ali Larter (Final Destination, American Outlaws), Seann William Scott (American Pie, Road Trip), George Carlin (Stand-up comedian), Carrie Fisher (Star Wars), Mark Hamill (Star Wars), Jason Biggs (American Pie), James Van Der Beek (Dawson's Creek) and many more are joining in, just to have a small role in the movie. By the way, check out The Passion of the Clerks - another movie with Jay and Sileny Bob. To be released this year. "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, horrible","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I must say that I am a big Kevin Smith fan. I loved Clerks and Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma were enjoyable as well, but JASBSB was bad when I first saw it in theaters and that notion was verified when I saw it on TV a couple of nights ago. I will give credit to the Good Will Hunting 2 scene, that is hysterical, and it's fun seeing so many big name actors (Matt Damon, Ben Affleck) and actresses (Shannon Elizabeth, Elize Dushku) make appearances but even this ensemble of characters couldn't save this dud. It seemed like Kevin Smith had an ambitious vision for this project, trying to sum up the stories of Jay and Silent Bob, while also attempting to do a spoof on Hollywood. Noble ideas, wretched execution. Honestly, watching the Star Wars scene was one of the most painful experiences in my life, I couldn't believe how bad it was. Not to mention the non-stop bathroom humor. Look, I found the vile language to be hilarious in the first Kevin Smith movies, but man, how about a little bit of balance? How many jokes about the male anatomy can one make? Overall, I was horribly let down by this movie and after seeing how unsuccessful Jersey Girl was, I hope Kevin Smith isn't slipping into oblivion. His first couple of movies were awesome, but this was a sad way to end the saga of Jay and Silent Bob. "}{"Title":"Does anyone not like this movie?","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I did laugh a few times, but Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was kind of stupid. It has it's moments, but everyone I know just loves this movie. So, I'm thinking either A I'm going insane or B I need to watch this a few times to get it. I'm not sure which. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's worst, hopefully J&SB are gone forever","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK is the single most self-indulgent work of art I have ever seen.  That wouldn't be so bad, if only the movie were funny. Or interesting.  Or entertaining.  Unfortunately, it's none of the above. This isn't even a movie, it's a bunch of half-baked ideas thrown together, geared directly at rabid Kevin Smith fans, and no one else.  Again, that would be okay if the movie was the least bit enjoyable.  But it just plain isn't.What is it?  Well, let me go down the list.  I found this movie to be stupid, patronizing, obnoxious, boring, obvious, self-satisfied, arrogant, unimaginative, trite, insulting, and, above all else, spectacularly unfunny.Smith's satirical jokes about Hollywood, the internet and pop culture are made with all the subtlety of a thermonuclear explosion. In one scene, Jay and Bob hitch a ride in the Mystery Machine with the Scooby Doo gang.  I groaned.  Apparently, I, being a Gen-Xer, am supposed to go, Ha ha! Scooby Doo!  I get it!  Then, the whole gang get high and Daphne and Velma take their tops off.  I groaned again.  Yeah.  Shaggy's a pot head, Daphne's hot, Velma's a lesbian.  I've heard it.  It was funny once.  Now, for the zillionth time, it's kind of lost it's humor.Other jokes drop dreadfully dead.  Jay has a light saber battle with Mark Hammill in one scene.  Okay, cameo by a pop culture icon, fine.  Then Jay slices off Hammill's hand, at which Hammill wails, Oh no, not again! Give me a break!  Mel Brooks developed a bad habit in his later movies of feeling he needed to point out the punchlines to his jokes.  Smith has the same problem here, only his jokes aren't funny.  The movie is full of these wink-wink cameos, most of which are uninspired and pointless.  Only George Carlin, as a hitch hiker with a unique style of getting rides, and Seann William Scott, as a sensitive milquetoast, provide any real laughs. The gifted Will Ferrell tries hard, but cannot overcome the leaden weight of Smith's lifeless dialogue.And, though they are listed prominently in the movie's advertising, Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and Chris Rock have little more than cameo appearances themselves.But the biggest problem with JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK are Jay and Silent Bob.  The characters are okay in short spurts, as in Smith's previous films, but they simply cannot carry an entire movie.  As Jay, Jason Mewes grows more and more irritating, until the sight of him made me want to kick in the TV.  I have no problem with profanity or crudity, but enough is enough!  Hearing him say the F word or talk about farting and wanting to get laid over and over and over again becomes worse than figernails on a chalkboard after a while.  Not because it's offensive, but because it's tiresome and sophomoric in the extreme.  And Smith's Silent Bob is equally irritating, in that the bugging out the eyes/pantomiming instead of talking joke has seriously worn off, and by the time he gives his obligatory speech at the movie's finale, I've ceased to care.This is Smith's only major misfire to date.  I enjoyed CLERKS and CHASING AMY.  MALLRATS was flawed, but it held my attention.  I thought DOGMA was close to brilliant.  I was expecting J&SBSB to at least be amusing.  I was gravely disappointed.  The only people who appear to be having a good time are the actors.  I just sat there, dumbfounded, marveling at the fact that Smith got such a mind-numbingly moronic movie produced and released by a major studio.More power to him--unfortunately for us. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Film, Not Many Will Beat It For Sheer Comedy.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only Kevin Smith films i have are Mallrats, Dogma, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. I will buy the next movie that he bases on Jay & Silent Bob (if he does so ?), as i think they are great films really funny as well ).I dont know if anyone knows or has spotted this but(they probably have spotted it though), when Matt Damon is lying on the road dead in Dogma we see his foot move in one shot ? a mistake ? who knows.This movie has many MANY witty one liners, some are funny and some are really funny like for instance ``Super Monkey F**k`` as spoken by Jay, you`ll know what i mean if you`ve seen the movie.then there`s Shannon Elizabeth & Eliza Dushku both are extremely beautiful women pure eye candy, especially in the leather outfits  they wear later in the movie ).Will Ferrall (correct spelling for surname ?), he was funny as a kind of Animal Detective of sorts, you first see him arrive on a Harley ) and crash into a van and leave the bike where it crashes.Seann William Scott makes an appearance (as do quite a few Celeb`s in the movie), and it is funny how his character makes a departure thanx to Jay and what Jay shouts at him as he goes.The Jay & Silent Bob movies are as follows in terms of being funny *my opinion only folks*Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back #1. Mallrats & Dogma, both #2.these are the only Kevin Smith movies i like so far and hopefully will add the next J&SB movie if he`s so kind enough to make one ?, come on Mr Smith you know you want to as do most of us want you to as well ).There was a really funny moment where Scooby Doo was worked into the movie, Daphney looked really nice and the funny part was where Fred threatened to feed Shaggy to Scooby ), and the mention of Dooby Snacks as well which warrents a medal for funniness.If your looking for a movie with quite a few laff`s in it then watch this but beware it has strong language thanx to Jay running his mouth off all the time (but that is all part of the comedy )).rating for this movie - 10/10, rating for the comedy in it 10/10, rating for Shannon Elizabeth 12/10, rating for Eliza Dushku 12/10, rating for Ali Larter 10/10, rating for that other chick with Shannon & Eliza & Ali, 9 and a half/10. "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had seen a few bits of them in Clerks, part of the New Jersey Trilogy along with Mallrats and Chasing Amy, an appearance in Scream 3, and a return in Dogma, but I had never seen one of the proper films from director Kevin Smith, and I'm glad the first film of his I did try starred his most popular characters in their own movie. Basically the star slackers, dope-smoking, jive-talking Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself, only uttering a few words somewhere in the middle) have discovered their book alter egos Bluntman and Chronic are having a movie made about them by Miramax, but they are getting bad hate mail (about the characters, and their real names), and they are now heading from Jersey to Hollywood to stop the movie being made. On the way, Jay meets the love of his life with Justice (American Pie's Shannon Elizabeth), who along with Missy (Jennifer Schwalbach Smith, Kevin's wife), Sissy (True Lies' Eliza Dushku) and Chrissy (Final Destination and Heroes' Ali Larter) plan to steal a bunch of diamonds. The cops are on their tails, including Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly (Will Ferrell), who is only brought in when a primate/monkey (whatever) is stolen, and The Clit, lol. One of the reasons this film is fun to watch, besides the in-jokes, small spoofs and bad language (yes, the swearing is very funny) is because of the numerous cameo appearances of well-known actors who aren't afraid to send themselves up. These include Ben Affleck, My Name Is Earl's Jason Lee, The Breakfast Club's Judd Nelson, George Carlin, Star Wars' Carrie Fisher, American Pie's Seann William Scott, Tracy Morgan, Good Will Hunting director Gus Van Sant, Chris Rock, Jamie Kennedy, Scream director Wes Craven, Shannen Doherty, Mark Hamill, American Pie's Jason Biggs, Matt Damon and Dawson's Creek star James Van Der Beek. It also featuring the number one single from Afroman, Because I Got High, Jay and Silent Bob naturally feature in the music video. Good! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the year","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsTalk about one-joke,Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back literally defines the term.There's nothing wrong with crude,toilet,sexual humour,it doesn't even need to be tasteful.But when the entire film consists of nothing but bad language and rude sexual references,soon the humour becomes very tired and what had the potential to be side-splitting ultimately emerges as a pointless waste of time and money.Even the much anticipated Ben Affleck and Matt Damon cameos are stale and weak.The whole deal with the two main characters is witless and stupid anyway,with the one defining the term foul-mouthed and the other hardly saying anything.A definite one to avoid.* "}]