[{"Title":"Uniquely captures the mood of adolescence","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like to go to beautiful places where there's waterfalls and empty fields&#133; Nasia  George Washington is a meandering, moody, and hypnotic look at a group of black children, ages 9 to 14, during one summer in North Carolina. This was my second viewing and it remained a deeply satisfying experience. Though at times self-conscious, George Washington brings to mind Terence Malick's Days of Heaven with its voice-over narration, languid, dreamy tone, and gorgeous cinematography.The youngsters are shown talking and playing aimlessly among the squalid junkyards and abandoned buildings of their neighborhood. They do not talk much about their hopes for the future but focus on their families and their girl friends and boy friends. The dialogue is partly improvised and, like Days of Heaven, allows the characters to speak in a manner that is slightly more poetic and contemplative than the average teenager.The narrator, Nasia (Candace Evanofski), is a 12-year-old who has just broken up with her 13-year-old boyfriend Buddy (Curtis Cotton III) because, in her view, he's too young and immature. She's more attracted to Buddy's friend George (Donald Holden), a quiet and serious boy who always wears a helmet to protect his soft skull. They hang out with their friends, a mismatched pair of amateur car thieves named Vernon (Damian Jewan Lee) and Sonya (Rachael Handy), and also with Rico (Paul Schneider), a local railroad worker. Buddy shares his sadness with Rico who comforts him with his own story of lost love. When an unexpected tragedy occurs, each of them must look closer at themselves and struggle to make an emotional connection with the events. They come to their realizations at different moments throughout the film and slowly begin to change in different ways. George, for one, after saving a drowning boy in a swimming pool becomes a neighborhood hero. Those realizations, however, do not provide an instantaneous fix and Green does not provide a forced happy ending. Green has said, One of the reasons I made this movie is because movies talk down to kids, put them as a cute little kid with a box of cereal and a witty joke, says Green. You watch movies like Kindergarten Cop and it's like, 'Oh, a kid said something about sex. Isn't that funny?' It's just annoying and it makes me sad for their parents. George Washington presents a view of teens that is not condescending but shows each character as a person of dignity and worth. It uniquely captures the confusion of adolescence, the need to belong, to believe life is or can be important, and the universal longing for love. Green has looked into the squalor and found beauty. Like a poem of Walt Whitman, he has expressed the divine in the commonplace.  "},{"Title":"Pure cinema, a masterpiece of indie filmmaking.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington is the kind of film I instantly respond to for the simple reason that it is pure, perfect cinema.  This is what FILM can do when free of the constraints of popular movie-making.  When it ended it made me think of that old saying a picture is worth a thousand words.  Well what happens when that picture moves?  You get George Washington.   I don't want to spoil the film for anyone reading this by needless plot exposition that I find so annoying in most professional reviews.  But the film does center around a small American town, and a group of poor children during the long, hot summer months.  This film has absolutely wonderful cinematography, better than most big budget Hollywood films, and the mood it sets is alternately playful, melancholy, surreal, and poignant.  Many times I was reminded of my own childhood; scenes play out in a very organic way and the actors, mostly children, are all wonderful.   Before I saw this film I had heard that one of the director's influences was Terrence Malick, a filmmaker I love dearly, and George Washington reminded me a lot of Malick's Days of Heaven.  He uses voiceover in much the same way Malick did in that film...alternating between narration, random thoughts, and character exposition.  The voiceover use in this film, as in Days of Heaven, is spoken the way someone might hear their own thoughts.  Watch the movie and you'll see what I mean.   Although the movie is about children, it's not really for kids, but I would venture to say that any kid from about age 12 and up would be all the richer for seeing this movie.  However in this age of short attention spans, and video game editing I don't hold out much hope that many kids would appreciate a film like this.  But for adults, especially lovers of the cinema, this should be required viewing.  It's up to us support these kinds of movies so we can see more of them in the future.  I saw this for free on the independent film channel, but I plan on buying the DVD anyway...George Washington is a film I will be proud to add to my collection.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"immensely subtle, brilliantly realized","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first saw George Washington at the L.A. Independent Film Festival, I remarked to a colleague that I wasn't sure if the film was brilliant, or if it was a student film. He remarked, in kind, that it was a brilliant student film. At the time, I agreed. But after repeated viewings of George Washington, I think I am starting to encounter its sheer sublime brilliance... and in retrospect, it is one of the most beautifully realized films I've ever seen. As a Southerner, I can't recall a film that has better captured the mood of the rural South. The film's languid pacing--set amidst its plush backdrop of swimming pools, the rusted steel of dilapidated factories, children playing in the sun, immense greenery, and diverse ethnic culture--continually transports me back to the South that I experienced growing up. Its operatic photography mixes a complex cinematic chemistry that, for me, feels more and more like a documentary in tone the more I watch it. Yet for all the film's structural looseness, there is that one story strand that seems to always hit from an unforeseen angle, which softly jerks you back to the story just as you start to think the film is losing focus. The film's pace seems centered on this hypnotic lulling style the narrative rope slackens almost to the point of no return, until all of a sudden that rope is pulled taut by its sheer weight. Other reviews here accurately describe what George Washington is about, so I will defer to them for story description. Unfortunately, in many descriptions here, people (mistakenly) see randomness in the film's structure. But  the story's elements are just so beautifully and intricately weaved that one can actually leave the film truly wondering if there was any structure to it at all. This is absolutely not a by chance occurance. It is the mystifying brilliance of this classical tale the languid pacing almost fosters Southern-style forgetfulness to the point that the story seems to forget about itself and fold inward. All the stories fall into each other so smoothly that it's easy to forget and begin wondering what happened? But this style is in fact the film's structure, and is absolutely the intended hypnotic effect, which is so reflective of the mood of Southern culture (if I am allowed to state this so broadly). I've now seen the film about ten times, and I can confidently state that George Washington's immense subtlety in this regard should not be overlooked. There are many examples of backstory that David Gordon-Green (the writer/director) leaves just underneath the surface, waiting to be found. For example, in the relatively minor scene where George visits his imprisoned father, it's amazing to consider just how much that simple scene reveals of George's strange circumstances. Without being obvious and saying directly to the viewer x happened, now y occurs, we are all of a sudden introduced to George's complex emotional world. We are given an image (but not an explanation) as to why he now lives with Damascus. What's the backstory here? Did George's father murder his mother? We are told nothing directly. But after the incident with Buddy, George is able to come to some sort of terms with his father--who remains silent, smoking a cigarette behind bars. George tells his father that he once didn't believe him, but now believes him... and loves him. The film's central theme--that of George becoming a hero--is most exemplified in this moment... and is in my estimation the biggest character building moment of the film. In a quick two minute scene (which, action-wise, is relatively forgettable), we all of a sudden encounter George as a growing adolescent in a very complex adult world as guilty, as scared, as proud, as strong, as knowing, as forgiving. It's as though his conscience were born in that moment of inner conflict, and provides the measure for his becoming a hero later in the film. (As a wise man once told me, one can only become a hero by being, at some point, the opposite of a hero.) I think the typical response that George's heroism is ironic in the film should be discredited by the depth of his character. Far from ironic, he is simply a hero who begins to grasp the price of heroism. George Washington is rife with little gems like this. So many subtleties abound here, like Nasia's fascinating narration told from the future perfect tense (revealed only once in a phrase halfway through the film)--told as though the story were some sort of Southern archetypal memory. Or Damascus' pre-text for quitting his job, so subtley inserted in the beginning that you forget about it by the time you realize what his phobias are. Or even George's breathtaking admission, as indicated in the interrogation office through a jerk-reaction sniff that seems to come two paces too late. How much is revealed in that small action! George Washington is one of the most artful and intricately directed films I've ever seen. It is the kind of film that, like its story, will never crack the (canonical) surface because of its deep subtleties... but which, because of that, is what will always make it shine. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, A very underrated film","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After only writing a few reviews, I promised myself I would not give a film a perfect score too easily, but I cannnot resist. George Washington is truly astonishing and touching piece of cinema. Some people have called one of the best films of the new decade. This is definitely not too far from the truth. As the summary had said it is told very deceptively but we do not know the director has up his sleeve both plot wise and emotionally.One of the best things about this film is its realism. David Gordon Green captured the essence of how kids today speak. Often we find in the usual tween movies that the young kids speak perfect English, always have good posture, speak with a clear voice, and have a wide vocabulary. I sound like one of my teachers. In the real world, this is not how kids actually talk and Mr. Green should be commended for bringing this to the masses.As many people know, this film has great cinematography and the location is an area rarely seen in movies today. It even rivals Malick's. The opening scenes in particular have great cinematography. They are a hook to the viewers that enchants them to keep watching. The sub-satisfactory location is turned into a beautiful not quite urban or rural town of mystery and intrigue.Yes, I will say it. This film is very moving. I know I will sound like a sap but it is moving in the true sense of the word. It is never overly sentimental or sappy. It feels so genuine. Few films recently have been so affecting on this level. The film has a very provocative take on redemption I like how the director used amateurs to add even more realism to the movie. The acting was pretty good, too. Stay clear if this movie if you do not have a good attention span (most reviewers are complaining about this). It is drawn out but oh so rewarding. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"You're expected to think","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Don't look for a simple, linear plot line or resolutions to what you think are the problems. George Washington is the offspring of Gummo and Stand by Me, and a very distant relative to Eraserhead (but with a soul). The dialog is often beyond the age, character, and scope of the kids depicted (similar to Brick), which can be disconcerting, yet, when suspending disbelief, remained interesting. The scoring is dark and moody &#150; and seldom lets up. On occasion, the lack of actor training can be seen in the kids, but for the most part they do a good job. The locations are full of dying and dead culture &#150; rich, textural, beautiful crumbling Industrial Revolution. This is a ponderous, sometimes overly artful film that is none the less worth seeing and considering afterwards. It has things to say &#150; and you're expected to use your own mind. "},{"Title":"Quiet and sincere small-town American study","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Gordon Green's first feature is like Gummo, only better characters stumble across a vast wasteland they're only semi-aware of, but instead of just being weird and disturbing, these characters are gentle and caring. Actually, it's worth noting that most of the dialog is not all that un-familiar, and that if the characters were older this movie would seem like pretentious Indie junk. Instead, it puts the context into comedic relief to see 12 year olds discussing love like aging veterans of break-up and loss.As for, well, imagery heart-breaking/rending photography. Shot in North Carolina, two people to praise would be the location scout and the cinematographer.... the town these people live in is shapeless, buildings and trash and trains and mines and forest and plants and trees and swamp all co-inhabit the same spaces. The characters seem to know their way around, but trying to track them in context to an overall map is impossible. As a background, it serves well, but also symbolically links to George's traffic directing as a true act of heroism, even after saving that kid's life.Anyway, this movie is wonderful, and as David Gordon Green has been getting a lot of attention lately what with his new movie Pineapple Express coming out, I'd like to check out more of his work.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A deeply confusing film","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Five days after seeing *George Washington* at the Chicago International Film Festival, I still don't really know what to make of it.  At times, the film is reminiscent of Terence Malick's work with the use of narration, beautifully evocative music, and mesmerizing shots of the landscape. However, the film jolts you out of the meditative state such devices usually inspire with bizarre turns in the plot and characters.A little spoiler here, so if you don't want to know anything about the film, check out here.  *George Washington* follows four young teenagers in the deep south as they lead relatively unsupervised lives.  One day, when tragedy occurs, they are forced to come to terms with an adult world they had never really thought about.  This is where the film gets perplexing and, I have to admit, I'm not sure if I get it exactly.  I'm sure on repeated viewings, though, there will be a lot there to find.This film is confusing, but it's confusing at its best. "},{"Title":"George Washington on Reel 13","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though GEORGE WASHINGTON lacks the star power of the Reel 13 Indies of late (IMAGINARY HEROES, SUNSHINE STATE), it's still a high profile independent film. It's legendary in the industry as the first film from indie auteur David Gordon Green. It also already has its own Criterion Collection Edition on DVD, so Channel 13 can hardly claim to have made a discovery here.As disappointing as it is that Reel 13 has gone away from bringing us films that are new to us (though not that many of them were very good), you have to acknowledge that at the very least, we get an independent film that is wonderfully cinematic and well-crafted. David Gordon Green has a pretty simple formula &#150; not a great deal of extraneous camera movement, realistic characters and scenes that are lyrically cut together with beautifully photographed landscapes. There is a certain poetry to his work that is all his own &#150; a style that he worked to even greater impact with his follow-up film ALL THE REAL GIRLS.As similar as the feel of GEORGE WASHINGTON is to that film, it's narrative is quite different and deals with a handful of young kids in a small, poor town somewhere in the South (Arkansas? NC?) as they deal with tragedy and the unstoppable nature of growing up. The kids, whom I suspect are all untrained actors, are all quite good, albeit playing characters that are perhaps more mature than their respective ages suggest. That aspect, along with the verisimilitude and honesty of the scenes, reminds me a lot of Peter Sollett's work. Not as much RAISING VICTOR VARGAS (which airs on Reel 13 in May) than the short it was based on &#150; FIVE FEET HIGH AND RISING &#150; only Green accomplishes a similar effect without a hand-held camera.There a couple of nitpicky things that keeps GEORGE WASHINGTON from being as effective as the previously mentioned ALL THE REAL GIRLS. For starters, it's a little slow and hard to hear at times. Paul Schneider, who is outstanding in a much more significant role in REAL GIRLS, is more of a distraction here than an asset. His character, ostensibly intended for comic relief, is like a sixth toe on one foot &#150; it doesn't stop you from walking normally, but it's really unnecessary. I also felt the voice-over was also extraneous &#150; as if Green didn't trust us to comprehend his themes. The biggest issue I had with the film, though, is the surreal turn it takes in its last twenty minutes or so. Without giving too much away, it relates to changes in the main kid character, which are personified by a radical shift in wardrobe. While I see the overarching purpose of the choice &#150; to explicate how the character deals with some of his misfortunes &#150; it is a major shift in tone for the piece and stands out like a sore thumb against the quiet beauty of the rest of the film.Still and all, beggars can't be choosers and having sat through some very questionable indie films over the last few months, GEORGE WASHINGTON is a very welcome change.(For more information on this or any other Reel 13 film, check out their website at www.reel13.org) "},{"Title":"The everyday made poetic by a visionary eye","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Gordon Green's first miniscule-budget movie is strange and disconcerting, and appears to lack a real focus; but maybe that's its theme - the aimlessness and randomness of life in a poor North Carolina neighbourhood. But not from the conventional point of view that regards such lack of purpose as totally negative; but with a poetic, visionary eye that can see meaning and even  beauty in things and people that appear on the surface to be  mundane, derelict, pointless or absurd.Ostensibly the film is about a group of kids, mainly black, who spend their time goofing around, as kids do, until there's a tragic accident, and then a heroic rescue, and George (Donald Holden) is at the centre of both the accident and rescue. And George is already marked out as an exceptional character, not only because he has a weak skull and has to wear a helmet, but because pretty Nasia (Candace Evanofski) has  switched her affections to him from an apparently more attractive companion. The children are surrounded by, and inter-mingle with, a mixed bunch of adults, the most prominent being a group of manual  workers, who alternately josh each other and make would-be serious statements. However sceptical he or she might have been initially, by the end of the film the viewer accepts that George is exceptional and possibly a potential hero; but whether the world in general will ever recognise this is more doubtful; though the movie ends on a hopeful note. Technically, the film is fine; with great photography, striking visuals, and effective music. Nevertheless, it is hard to follow, because of its rough edges and loose ends; it is probably best regarded not as a narrative, but more as a series of vignettes. From a conventional viewpoint, much of the acting by Green's amateur cast, is bad, reminiscent of early dramatised documentaries by, say, Robert Flaherty; but this crudity and stiltedness add to the surreal feel of the movie, and give the characters a grittiness that smooth good acting might not. Of all the movies I've seen lately, this is one I'd like to see again, when an opportunity arises.  "},{"Title":"A great sleep aid","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Won't waste too many words on this one. BAD! BAD! BAD! POTENTIAL SPOILER COMING Aimless story a group of wandering teens and pre-teens set in a southern industrial area who attempt to cover-up the accidental death of one of their group. Watching this movie was like being subjected to 90 minutes of semi-random politically correct Public Service Annoucements with dialogue that could put an African Elephant out cold in seconds. Save your money and time. "}{"Title":"I'm sure there are worse movies out there, but...","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not exactly sure why I choose to order this movie from Netflix beyond the fact that I just wanted to see something a different. This film was definitely that! There was no specific plot or easily conceivable manifestation as to how any one character tied in to another. Basically, each person was just there, crossing the path of another poor soul, also just happening to be there. George, the centerpiece of the movie, had aspirations of being great, as explained by Nasia, the movie's narrator, but you kinda get the feeling that he is just a moronic preteen that doesn't seem to make any more sense than any other person in the movie, though he is deemed to be developmentally disabled. The parts that were supposed to be serious were, to me, hilarious for the most part because they were so random and out of whack. Nothing made sense. Like George riding in a taxi to transport his deceased friend, Buddy, to a river where he could be laid to rest. Oh, did I mention that his friend had been dead for what was probably over a month, and though the authorities were searching for Buddy, no one questions George? I can go on and on about this movie, but see it yourself if you don't believe me, or, you can watch something more worthy of your attention, like the back of your eyelids! The only reason that this move get's a three (I have scarcely seen one worse) is because it made me laugh. Would I watch it again? Maybe if I was high. "},{"Title":"Hard to describe.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I see the writer and the director are the same guy I sometimes worry.This was my first inkling this may not be a great movie. The characters are an odd mix. I like the fact that most of them are just ordinary people. Movies usually go way over the top with casting and outrageous characters. But there are some pretty silly characters in this movie too. Also I got tired of the poor wrong side of the tracks philosophical wise child character that is so pervasive in this film. Most of the adults in the movie have serious defects and the writer's view of the South is questionable. It seems to me he also intends it to be depressing.Unlike some of the reviews I've read I thought the cast did fairly well. It was the plot, script and direction that made this film impossible.It's easy to see where the director was going with this film; it's just debatable whether or not it's worth the trip "},{"Title":"Most Overrated underrated movie of the year","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was finally able to watch this movie this afternoon after months of anticipating its arrival in my area.  I had read the glowing reviews and eagerly ran to today's matinee.  I couldn't have been more disappointed.  I have a certain affection for slow paced movies as they give me such a feeling of peace as I watch.  Many of the comments in this forum praised the film for its deliberate pace, which indeed was an attribute of this movie. However, the acting was so incredibly bad that it ruined the entire experience.  I am totally shocked at the comments at this site praising these actors.  Someone used the word improvisational.  If that means unplanned or not thought out in advance then I will agree.  For whatever reason, this film has managed to somehow mesmerize normally discerning movie goers into thinking that this is a gem... but this diamond in the rough is more like coal.  I'd suggest that this director who has obvious potential spend more of his budget on acting on his next try.  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!!!! "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is some years old now, but it is very good in it's own way. It was better than I expected. It's not a big budget film, but well worth watching. The cinematography is very good. The director seemed to capture the run down areas so well, it almost seems beautiful in a way to look at. The movie shows the relationship of these young kids and how they manage through their day to day lives. They make the best of what's around them. I like how it shows how children learn to survive through tough and unpredictable circumstances. The young actors did an excellent job, seeing that some of them was their first time on film. Independent films are sometimes the best to watch because they're not trying to be BIG, but human. You may be able to find this film at your local library if you wish to view it. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A group of children, in a depressed small town, band together to cover up a tragic mistake one summer.The use of an amateur cast gets us, the audience, into a mindset where this could be a real small town. Indeed, because they are not actors, they probably act more naturally in certain circumstances.I am not going to attempt a thorough review here, because I think there is much that can be said and I do not want to say anything without deeper thought. Clearly a race aspect exists, as does a class aspect. There is some discussion of who or what a hero can be.And then, how does this film relate to the 1960s' Clu Gulager film? There is much to consider. "},{"Title":"Why do people like this?","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have hated almost every film David Gordon Green has made after George Washington - but even this movie begs the question, why?The acting is supposedly honest, but actually felt hackneyed and unrealistic by both the kids and the real actors alike. The storyline is virtually nonexistent, but what *is* there says so little that it barely exists. All that's left is the okay photography, and the sleepy directing. This is Sundance stuff akin to Beasts of the Southern Wild - boring, pointless, and so utterly, formulaically non-form that it's just as predictably ambiguous as the most hackneyed Hollywood Romcom is happy-ending-ized. The biggest difference between Sundance-honored independent films and Hollywood mediocrity is that at least Hollywood isn't totally disingenuous about what it's dishing out. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous George","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Think about this for a second. Throughout this entire movie, virtually no one ever raises their voice. There's some mild horseplay and an odd parent or two scolding their child, that's it. Even though sweat, stale air and boredom pervades the lives of the film's inhabitants, the viewer begins to like being enveloped in this day-to-day smoldering childhood summer existence where meaning, whether it exists or not, must be assigned to everything. As the movie progressed I began to wonder if a plot was developing. Toward the end I realized that I no longer cared about story but was enjoying the movie anyway (Indeed, when one character finally spills the beans it no longer makes a bit of difference). The dialogue is terrific and how the directer got the actors to uniformly deliver tone and accent is amazing. On the down side there was stuff that only functioned as...well...stuff; e.g., the cracker boy's motorcycle ride. I remember just after seeing THE DEER HUNTER wondering whether Cimino was a genius painting in ambiguity or a goof whose confusion accidentally played as nuance and contrast. Then I realized that I liked the film so much I didn't - and shouldn't - care. The same holds for GEORGE WASHINGTON. Though I suspect true talents at work here. "},{"Title":"Lush cinematography but poor story and acting","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is more likely to be admired than actually liked.  The acting is pretty darn bad and the story is borderline ridiculous, but what holds this movie together is the beautiful cinematography.  This film is in the same vain as Gummo, small town, no straight story, and lots of colorful characters.  But this movie misses the mark that Gummo hit so dead on, it doesn't make you care or relate to the characters.  The characterization in this movie is very insipid.  Watching this movie makes you think of its failed potential.  Well all in all its a G rated Gummo, so watch both and get back at me. "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick's Badlands this is not","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     The word lively should never be used in a sentence describing this film. This is destined to be a take home video for sleep clinics around the world.      I was delighted to hear that a filmmaker had shot a film two hours away from my stomping grounds. Even more delighted when I heard what the critics were saying and then I saw the film and my hopes crashed like the hindenburgh.     It's a plodding mess with no narrative, dialogue that sounds like the child actors wrote the script themselves, and no point.     The filmmakers say they were inspired by Terrence Malick's great 1973 film Badlands. There was a slight difference between this and Malick's film. BADLANDS HAD A PLOT!!!!!      I don't know what else to say  except don't believe the hype and wonder why most of the critics didn't see this wolf in cheap clothing for what it was.      If you like watching sod grow tune in. "},{"Title":"Beautiful boredom","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lovely, amateurish slice of the southern rural life of a small group of youngsters in a dead town one lazy summer. I can't really explain how it unfolds but it kind of reminded me of The Thin Red Line(a lesser film in my opinion), full of half-chewed, impressionistic dialogue, slow pans of life and landscape, jarring events to break the mundanity, only to melt back into the mundanity as a matter of course. The story isn't at all successful but I'd love to see what the first-time director can do with clearer, more engaging material "}{"Title":"not much really","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all good thoughts in my mind, after watching George Washington I couldn´t help and not to feel certain deja-vu of almost all elements of this piece of cinema. No one can blame director Green and he obviously did try his best here, but aren´t we all seen this a hundred times before (and better). The message of the movie is simplistic but it still works. The actors are pretty bad and their performances are even more ruined with not-so-great directing of their dialogues. Cinematography works but that´s also not very new in urban dramas like this one. So, it´s a nice try, but it takes more than that for something original, believable, interesting and important.   "},{"Title":"A lovely film.  Meaning?","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was lovely, and there was dozens of good ideas in it, but it didn't seem sorted out to me, and in the end I felt that I was being invited to take whatever meaning from it I wished.  Doesn't that kind of art come rather too easily to the artist?  If it were exuberant, you might have that to buoy you, but instead the material is treated very somberly -- it invites you to find meaning in it, and implies that there is much there.  But is there?  For instance, one scene near the end features a portrait of George Bush, Sr. hanging on a wall;  in a film named George Washington, you naturally look for significance.  But later, a friend told me that he had seen an interview with the director in which he mentioned that the portrait was placed more or less arbitrarily in the shot.  How many of us found something there that wasn't intended, and that wasn't an organic function of the film?  I enjoyed watching George Washington, but I can't say that I found it satisfying.  I'll look forward to Green's next feature -- I only hope his meanings will be both present and better expressed. "},{"Title":"Profoundly Annoying","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington is one of the most upsetting film experiences I've ever had. The reason for this is not what you might expect. It was not bad. A bad film isn't exactly annoying. What is annoying is inconsistency. It is as if it were written and directed by Dr. Jeckyl and Mr. Hyde. Dr. Jeckyl's parts are the great parts, of which there are numerous. In fact, many individual scenes have an utterly profound power, almost knocking me down. But here comes Mr. Hyde! About 1/3 of the scenes of the entire film are awful in every aspect. They clash so horribly with the great scenes that it basically kills the film dead.Actually, I think the good parts and bad parts can be identified further. I think I know which aspects were sorely lacking in the film.The film's story is great. I could imagine reading it in a novel and finding it quite compelling. The script, though, lacked a huge part the dialogue. The dialogue ranges from not bad to terrible. Fundamentally, the dialogue is problematic in the same way as the Terrence Malick film The Thin Red Line. In that film, we here narration of a grand poetical quality coming from these soldiers. It's as if there are two characters the actual ones, and the fantastically poetic ones. George Washington is the same way, except for one major flaw these deeply poetic and philosophical musings that these young kids come up with are neither very poetic nor very philosophical. They're all extraordinarily hackneyed, in fact. And to boot, all actors in the film except for one of the kids are HORRENDOUS actors, both in dialogue delivery and in gesticulations. The kid who plays George, arguably the main character, is the best.There is one monologue in the film that I feel the need to just attack ferociously to demonstrate the lowest depths of this film. George's uncle, who has adopted him, is particularly cruel to animals, especially dogs. He admits to killing a dog to his nephew, and then proceeds to tell George the root of this psychological problem. It seems that when he was a young kid, 6 I think, a big dog came up to him and started humping his leg. He tried to overpower the darn thing, but it was too big and knocked him down. It humped him all over his body. So he went home and got a drill to kill the dog, but that dog was gone. COME ON!!! This is incredibly silly. I cannot think of a sillier event than being raped by a dog!!! Jeeze, I almost threw things at the screen that was so terrible!This is one of those movies that I would love to see someone remake, cutting the bad things, thickening the rest of the story (the themes in the film, while potent, are often tenuously held together). I bet a really compelling film could be made with just the existing footage. One thing I do have to say, though, is watch out for this director! This film may have been a failure (and that is only in my opinion, of course), but there is so much worth in it that I think if the director matured, he might produce a real masterpiece. I will give it a 6/10 because of the good things in it. Really, though, the film falls pretty flat by the end. "},{"Title":"So lively, so convincing, so extraordinarily absorbing, not to be missed by those looking for underrated movies. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  GEORGE WASHINTON / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	George Washington details the drowsy lives of several preteen friends during their last summer of childhood, and it feels so accurate how the characters behave in the slumberous, low standard society. This is the summer where their first crushes arrive and flowering sexuality gives them confidence instead of confusion. It is a summer where the heat is consistent and the days seemingly last forever with nothing to do. The movie is about how a tragedy can forever change the course of individual lives so unexpectedly and abruptly. 	The setting is North Carolina on an industrial landscape, where we meet several black kids between the ages of ten and thirteen. The preteens are Buddy (Curtis Cotton III), who has a crush on Nasia (Candace Evanofski). She leaves him a young fellow named George (Donald Holden). George is a very interesting character; the plates in his skull did not meet correctly, so he must wear a protective helmet to cover his delicate head. George saves a child from drowning, even though his head is never supposed to get wet. He then walks around with a cape on, feeling accomplished like a hero. Then an accident happens, leaving the remaining characters with a lot to think about. 	 There is not a lot of active conflict here, just an  examination of behaviors of a variety of characters. They are not your typical characters, though; they are so brilliantly portrayed they feel like regular, ordinary people. The performances are extraordinary. The atmosphere and melancholy  setting play large roles in the monotonous tone, comparable conceivably with the work of Terence Malick. There is an honest and true sentimentality here, like the director, David Gordon Greene, wanted to inject personal and thought-provoking ideas in his innovative style, which sometimes seems a bit preachy.	George Washington is one of the most under appreciated movies of 2000. As I look over the Academy Award nominees I am disturbed. For the first time in a long time the members chose box-office successes over movie quality. Among the movies missing from the ballot are Human Resources, The Virgin Suicides, and George Washington. The film is one of the year's most poignant and heartbreaking. Everything that happens here is so lively, so convincing, so extraordinarily absorbing. It is a movie not to be missed by those looking for great underrated movies.   "},{"Title":"malick wannabe misses mark","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I came to this film with no more knowledge of it than that many critics I trust raved about it. I was sorely disappointed, and my only explanation for the praise it received was that we've been force fed so many banal and unimaginative films from the movie mill in Hollywood that any break from it will be treated like a morsel to the starving. Problem is, while GW is indeed different from the crowd, it isn't particularly original.  In fact it reminds me of a vastly inferior Terry Malick film.  It attempts to be a poetic, non- linear look at the lives of adolescents in a decaying small north Carolina town, and while beautiful (it is after all 35mm cinemascope), it falls flat, with gratuitous wackiness and non-sequitors.  Sometimes these poor kids are forced to spout stuff that sounds like it came from Sartre or Camus.  Other times they are allowed to talk like the kids they are. And the adults?  Most are ludicrously over-the-top.  I felt tortured by the pretentiousness of this thing at 42 minutes, but sat through the other 40 hoping for a payoff.  There wasn't much of one.  I had no emotional connection to anyone in here because I didn't recognize them as real.  What's worse is I really could have.  Some of the ideas and situations in here are rich in potential, though left unmined, unrealized. Terry Malick's version of this faux Malick film would have been much better. "},{"Title":"abysmal","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This may be the worst movie I've ever seen. Billed as an art-school film. If I'd been the prof, it would have gotten an F1- Contrived plot. They were trying hard to be weird, macabre, and david-lynchian, but they failed miserably.2- Bad acting. I had the feeling these non-actors were cajoled into taking the parts, or did so as a personal favor to the film makers.  But it may not be their fault, because of...(see 3 below)...3- Terrible script. The script was so contrived that the actors were laughing even while trying to deliver their inane lines.3- Cheap use of death, gross-out effects and gross-out events for sensationalistic purposes4- Poor representation of the South and of NC and of Winston-Salem where the filming took place. and finally,5- Anything that can make a film bad that I haven't thought of was probably in the film.The only reason for anyone to see the filmCould be shown by a film prof to the film class on how NOT to make a film.  "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everyone has their own take on movies.  As I read other reviews there are people who seem to really like this movie, however I am not one of them.  Some movies I find simply bad, Dude Where's My Car, but rarely do I come across a movie as this that is a complete torture to sit through.  The following is my take on the movie.It is SLOW.  It is a bad 20 minute short crammed into a 90 minute movie.  There are scenes in the movie that are obviously there to fill up time.  The movie spends 5 minutes with a scene of a guy riding a motorcycle.   That is all he is doing.  Just riding a motorcycle through town.  I don't remember him ever even waving to anyone.The dialog is awful, and the acting is awful with the exception of the gentleman who plays the uncle.  All other actors, I am using the term actor loosely since I am sure this is the first time any of them has tried to act, deliver their lines in a monotone style as if they were reading them from the page for the first time.The one thing I did like about the movie was how even though the characters were of mixed races the topic of race or prejudice was not part of the movie.   "},{"Title":"A filmmaker couldn't ask for a better debut","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nothing could've prepared me for the depressing qualities of David Gordon Green's quiet masterwork George Washington. The film operates with such simplicity, yet such brave, unrefined naturalism that it becomes almost too much for your system to handle and processing it becomes more and more of a challenge. If there is a sadder, more minimalistic film out there I don't want to see it anytime soon.George Washington meshes the desolate loneliness of Gummo, the close friendships of Stand By Me, and the realism of teens from Kids and puts it to the backdrop of the urban decay shown in Boyz N The Hood. However, the film never feels like a cheap copy of any of those films. They share the same themes, function with similar imagery and auteur-like craft, but in no way do they feel like cheap replications of great cinema from years past. Green manages to infuse his own portrait of a decaying setting and successfully combine it with the pristine acting of the child actors and the beautifully haunting cinematography to make one of the best films I've seen this summer.The film revolves around four friends - Buddy, George, Sonya, and Vernon - all of whom are around twelve years old and live in the dilapidated urban area of North Carolina. They spend their days wandering around town, talking aimlessly amongst themselves, or just watching life passing them by, not taking advantage of its opportunities because the landscape is such a desolate roadblock to anywhere. One day, tragedy strikes and is inflicted by the titular character, a troubled soul already due to a skull-condition that greatly limits physical contact with friends. The four must now learn to cope with tragedy and deal with a situation like adults, when no one adults have given them any practical guidance or life advice in their lives.The film is almost totally plot less. Even when the tragedy strikes, not much is predicated off of it. The entire film isn't directly encapsulated off of that instance, and goes on to develop long after it happens, showing more and more problems the characters faced even before this happened. Consider George, who now lives with the thought that his lack of human interaction practically sheltered him in life and now he has the notion that when he does engage in contact it'll end badly. Vernon must now live with the nudging thought that nobody really cared about what happened. Sonya remarks how she has the inability to feel, even after something as serious as what just happened. She is an unmoved child, likely made that way by a bleak landscape with little opportunities and little order from parents. And Buddy is now crushed after his girlfriend just left him. I wanted to hug each one of these characters for an obscenely amount of time.That is because David Gordon Green knows how to make a story like this progress with subtly and poetic tendencies. The poetry on display comes largely from Tim Orr's cinematography, which is beautiful in the sense that is shows heat, decay, isolation, loneliness, sadness, and fear more than any screenplay could. When Green allows Orr's cinematography to do the talking and places the characters in the background is when George Washington is its strongest. I never thought I'd say something like that, being a lover of relatable, fully fleshed-out characters and extensive dialog.The less said about George Washington thematically the better. It's a film with minimalism just elaborate enough to make a point but just ambiguous enough to encourage thought and contemplation. Within the next few weeks, I will make it a priority to explore more of David Gordon Green's filmography; George Washington is the best start any filmmaker could ask for.Starring Candace Evanofski, Donald Holden, and Paul Schneider. Directed by David Gordon Green. "},{"Title":"The Obama Years","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Gordon Green directs George Washington, a beautiful tone poem which revolves around a group of young, mostly black, North Carolinan children. The film's central character is George, a thirteen year old kid who wears a football helmet because of a weak, malformed skull. George, like a superhero from a child's cartoon, drifts across a world in which impoverished blacks and whites occupy a landscape of decaying industrial towns, wreckage and rusty metal. Like most of Green's films, all conversation is muted, poetic, the narrative structure is loose and dreamy, and both dialogue and compositions are heavily improvised.Thematically, the film has the world stumped. Since its release, every conceivable metaphor and allegory has been read into George Washington, most of which the film ably absorbs. Most of the time, though, it's obvious that Washington's very young director, with his strained poetry and strained meditativeness, is reaching for things he perhaps himself doesn't quite understand. All Green knows is that he doesn't want his film to be like everyone else's.Still, the film's title is a stroke of genius, evoking a complex web of both American mythology and history. It's a great history which this black kid &#x96; weak, damaged in the head &#x96; aspires to be part of, and which he eventually will, with a little help from his multiracial neighbourhood of friends. 8/10 &#x96; At its best, the film channels well the tone of Terrance Malick's Badlands and Charles Burnett's Killer of Sheep. "},{"Title":"Good start","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" George Washington was the first feature film ever made by indy wunderkind director David Gordon Green. It was released in 2000, to generally favorable reviews, and it truly deserved them. It has been recently released on an invaluable Criterion Collection DVD which I recently purchased. Most critics erred and went in for a facile comparison to filmmaker Terrence Malick, but this film has several things that Malick's films do not have. Yes, like Malick, Green is fond of lingering poetic shots of seemingly everyday things, but Green's film is far more concerned with individuals than any of Malick's four feature films are. Malick's 1978 Days Of Heaven does have its reach, though, as the black and white still photographs at the end of George Washington homage the black and white stills of that film, just as a young girl's narration echoes the young female character's in Days Of Heaven. But, the characters in George Washington are mostly poor North Carolina preteens of an eternal present, not historic artifacts, and they convey a sense of self that is absent in Malick's films, which mostly deal with issues, not people.That said, this film is not really a narrative, more of a simple series of linked vignettes that trace a several week period over a summer, which opens with a dreamy panoramic and poetic monologue spoken by a young girl named Nasia (Candace Evanofski), that weaves poetry out of the banal snippets that drift in and out of even the most prosaic minds, such as, 'I like to go to beautiful places where there's waterfalls and empty fields.' This is not immanently poetic, but juxtaposed with the camera work it takes on a heightened, almost ecstatic, state. Some criticize the film by stating real children do not speak that way, but, a) I've known them, and a read of Anne Of Green Gables shows they've always been around, and b) the poesy is not of the character, but what the character says in relation to her station on life&#133;. This film is not a great film, but it shows great potential, just as Malick's first film, Badlands, showed great potential, but not accomplishment. But it is a special film because it makes its specialness from what is remembered by all people, from their youth. As they go on with life, George and Nasia will likely drift apart, but both will have their own reasons for remembering that long ago summer the film charts, and we viewers will understand why. "}{"Title":"Watch it patiently, yes it's worth it!  What might it be rated if.....","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie with a story, not an action movie. It's a movie that you WILL talk about after seeing it. The kids don't act Hollywood, but that's not bad. They do act like real kids. So real, in fact, my 7 year old son, (I started playing the DVD at his bed-time, being a 'non-rated' movie and not knowing what to expect) seeing only the first few minutes, asked me if this movie was really happening! The style is somewhat comparable to an improved 'Stimie', 'Farina' type Little Rascals episode - kids were kids! Though coping and reacting to death is certainly a heavier subject than Our Gang would ever tackle, thus ends the comparison. A very professionally done film, very scenic. Hollywood couldn't have done better! Of all the comments on this board that I read, no one got very detailed as far as how Family-Friendly the unrated movie is. So for those like me, with out giving away any of the story..... As far as I remember, there were maybe 5 or so 'h*lls' and about as many 'd*mns'. Otherwise the language, even the few 'bathroom' words, was acceptable. 3 mild sexual references, no nudity (except underwear?). One scene of a boy taking a puff or two on a cigarette, and a little blood during an accident. I'm not the MPAA, but it would most likely be a PG movie. I hope this helps for those who want to know! I'm glad I got the movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A gem of a film and an intriguing depiction of rustic life. Beautifully shot with mesmerizing pacing, unique sound, striking images and honest performances. At times it may seem slow, but the deliberate (and some might say Kubrickian) motion only accentuates the beauty and feeling of each shot.It is remarkable a film essentially made by a student (or recent graduate) and his buddies on a very tight budget can look this polished. If you are a fan of Terrence Malick (Badlands, Days of Heaven, The Thin Red Line), then you will definitely appreciate George Washington. In fact, David Gordon Green and Malick are working together on the film Undertow as Director and Producer, respectively, to come out in 2004.This film is well worth your time. Gordon Green is a talented director with a unique vision and an unapologetic dedication to his ideas (as well as his friends).  "},{"Title":"75% There","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seems a bit scattered in focus, focuses on childhood, family and poverty. Is generally enjoyable just for the photography alone. You can feel the hot muggy air, for sure a film worth watching, even if it does leave you scratching your head a bit. "},{"Title":"loss (?) of innocence in the rural South","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is the story of a group of kids in a small, depressed, industrial town in the South. The plot focuses on a tragedy that occurs among the group of friends, and the ways that each child reacts to the tragedy -- in particular it focuses on the main character George (whose last name I don't believe is ever revealed but one can only guess...) who was born with a partially formed soft skull and thus, for example, cannot get his head wet or hit it very hard. The movie delicately deals with the loss (or retention) of youthful innocence.I have heard that director David Gordon Green used mostly amateur actors, and this is quite evident throughout -- whether or not this is effective, I can't really say. This fact reminds me of director Larry Clark's use of young amateur actors in Kids and Bully, and I think its somewhat interesting to view this touching movie as kind of a rural South dual of Clark's immoral urban youth movies. A lumbering, developmentally disabled character named George is not the only reference to Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men, and the film also has some dramatic and beautiful photography of the rural South. "},{"Title":"North Carolina Teenagers Spending Their Summer Months","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director David Gordon Green traveled to North Carolina to audition and select a cast of teenagers whom had never acted before.  The film is shot on location.George Washington tells the story of what can happen to normal teenagers as they idle away their summer months.  The youths interact with each other in a frank manner using the speech of the day.  Watching this film is like watching your own children and their friends as the live out each new summer day.  The consequences they experience are a result of their lack of supervision as each summer day develops.Donald Holden, as George, and Curtis Cotton, III as Buddy are the main characters.  These two teenagers as well as their grouping of friends acted remarkably for teens whom never acted before.  One would agree that their behavior in the film is typical of how our children and their friends spend their time unraveling their summer days.  This is a most delightful film to watch unfold in spite of some sad and tragic moments.  George Washington deserves a high rating as well as praise for Director David Gordon Green and his crew of North Carolina teenagers.  A must see film! "},{"Title":"A nostalgic and humane look at adolescence","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A moody and atmospheric film that is told from a girl's (Nasia's) point of view, as she recounts her nostalgic memories about a childhood crush named George. Although George has a soft spot in his head which prevents him from engaging in rough, boyish activities, he seems indestructible and larger than life itself in the eyes of the admiring Nasia. George Washington is the impressive directorial debut of David Gordon Green, who seems to have attended the Terrence Malick school of filmmaking. There are definite Malickian devices here most notably, the voice over; the evocative music; and the sumptuous cinematography (several scenes are shot during the dusk). The cumulative effect of this film effectively evokes a nostalgia that we might all have towards our own childhood (or first love). The child actors are all very good and at times it doesn't seem like they're acting at all. Some of the lines seems so spontaneous in their delivery that it is hard to believe that they were scripted. For example, in one scene Nasia and George exchange small talk on top of the roof of an apartment building. You could tell all along that she admires George greatly. Then suddenly, she says I hope you live forever--said with such naturalness that you might think she made that up on the spot. At that moment a sustained, soul-lifting and evocative music plays in the background. There are many such tender moments in this film. Although George Washington might not be for everyone, those who like slow, moody, beautiful, and contemplative films might enjoy it--actually, savor it deeply. Without simply retreading the same old territory covered by directors like Malick, Green has created an original and lovely film that taps into the nostalgia of childhood in all of us. "},{"Title":"Stand by Me meets KIDS in an intimate and unpredictable way","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i love being pleasantly surprised. not knowing what to expect of a film and being submerged in a fantastic work of art. george washington is a great example of that feeling. the film could ride alone on its cinemagraphic efforts, but it goes to great lengths to make all ends meet. the budget is obviously low, the cast is a handful of inexperienced youth, and the story is an oddity in itself, and though that may sound like a negative mix, it certainly is not.the cast of amateur actors fit snuggly into their confused, childish characters and the low budget filmmaking is a perfect match for the extremely poor town that makes their home. the story, as well as the feel of the movie, is very relaxed and sedated, yet dramatically powerful and intriguing. the story is shocking at times, but never gross or vulgar; just unpredictable. and it is never really depressing, despite the poverty-stricken setting and a bleak and saddening set of events. the director manages to find a true, pure beauty in each moment of sorrow. it is hard to explain the depths to which he manipulates your emotions, without suspicion.it feels at times that the film crew barely wanted to make the picture. as if the director was hesitant to show such a vulnerable part of the character's lives, all the while knowing that it was his duty to put them on display. i didnt know what to think of gw before, and i still dont know what to think of it now, but i felt every gesture made, as if it was my own. truly, a beautiful and creative work of art.  "},{"Title":"What a beautiful film","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was browsing at the video the other day, and was surprised to come across this certain title, one I have been more than eager to see since its initial very limited release. I was ecstatic to learn that George Washington had been released to video. Without hesitation I snatched the one and only copy. What a beautiful film. With calm, detached narrative, and subtle imagery used to further the feeling of casual aimlessness... in this way it is reminiscent of Malik (in the silent, melancholy feel it evokes, it is very similar to Badlands). It both saddens and uplifts your heart in its study of these meandering adolescents. After all the gratuitous praise, and all the time it has had to build up expectations in my mind, it lives up to it all. "},{"Title":"A new director with a heart","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was about to change the channel, when this hypnotic images of poor kids playing in trash, and the train passing by, there was something I couldn't explain, an instant click which made me watch it to the end. I believe there is a whole genre to this kind of movies, althought so little are so good, cause it's a poetic vision of the real world, it moves your heart and mind. It reminded me a lot of Terrence Malick and those slow scenes, with hypnotic music, but it isn't in a way a copy. Just watch it, see all those wonderful characters, those grown-ups who spend time with kids, the superhero, the poetic dragon, just see it. "},{"Title":"A unique blend of poverty and beauty, tragedy and heroism","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington is a new entry in the very small category of full length, narrative films which are both entertaining yet poetic, beautiful yet honest; a work both visceral and cerebral, innocent and complex, it is a gem and a miracle.  Written and directed by David Gordon Green the year after he completed college, shot with the help of his friends and old classmates, and produced on less than a $40,000 budget, it is a slap in the face of the movie industry which refuses to take risks on young, serious filmmakers and to film students everywhere who say that the can't make their work because  'they' won't let me.  It warms the romantic artistic heart to see someone have the conviction to make their vision a reality and succeed so thoroughly.    "}{"Title":"A unique blend of poverty and beauty, tragedy and heroism","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington is a new entry in the very small category of full length, narrative films which are both entertaining yet poetic, beautiful yet honest; a work both visceral and cerebral, innocent and complex, it is a gem and a miracle.  Written and directed by David Gordon Green the year after he completed college, shot with the help of his friends and old classmates, and produced on less than a $40,000 budget, it is a slap in the face of the movie industry which refuses to take risks on young, serious filmmakers and to film students everywhere who say that the can't make their work because  'they' won't let me.  It warms the romantic artistic heart to see someone have the conviction to make their vision a reality and succeed so thoroughly.    "},{"Title":"A Truly Oddly Wonderful Vision","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  GEORGE WASHINGTON screened between March 8 to the 10th of 2001 at the Wexner Center for the Arts and is a film that any fan of independent and experimental narrative would enjoy. It is both reminiscent of Jim Jarmusch's work in STRANGER THAN PARADISE and is shot with the kind of detail and wonder that evokes Julie Dash's vision of the South in DAUGHTERS OF THE DUST. The acting is  not necessarily accomplished, but always evocative, this is particularly true of Curtis Cotton's performance as Buddy and Eddie Rouse's take on Damascus.The highlights throughout belong to Donald Holden. As George, Holden works with the film's director, David Gordon Green, to pull off a truly unforgettable character. George is, for lack of a better comparison, the independent cinema's Forrest Gump. Stripped of Gump's accomplishments and sanctified persona, George longs to create small acts of heroism. His world is poor and all-but forgotten by middle class America. Yet George and his friends spend time wandering in crumbling spaces and slums as view it as a world of discovery. The film never convinces you that the poor south is charming or special, but it often wanders into moments of mystical wonder through an accomplished sense of cinematography and thoughtfulm musical accompaniment. To me this is the cinematic equivalent of REM's MURMUR. Confusing, often muddled, humbly profound and surprisingly engaging, GEORGE WASHINGTON is for filmgoers who enjoy wondering about how the world is an all-but deliberate mystery.  "},{"Title":"well worth watching","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film helped remind me why independent films are important.  It's a quite, unassuming, and ultimately meaningful movie, that does not condescend to either its characters or its audience.  What might seem slow to some people, I saw as a deliberate choice, asking us to slow down and respond to the characters and situations.  When the violence comes, it's shattering to everyone involved  the characters and the audience.  Beautiful to watch, the movie allows us to observe without feeling like voyeurs--because it allows us to experience, too. "},{"Title":"Memorable Fairy Tale of Youth","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has some really realistic portrayals of the thoughts and actions of young children, but their words are often unconvincing.There are brief moments during which the children sound like children, but for the most part the movie allows them to express themselves far more eloquently than would be possible in reality. In contrast, the adults in the movie behave in an extremely childlike fashion. Now, this didn't really bother me, and it was actually refreshing to see adults and children converse on the same level, but it requires very bright children and very simple adults and takes a while to get used to. Taken as sort of an urban fairy tale told from a child's perspective (it's narrated by one of the children) , the movie worked very well for me. As has been said many times, the cinematography is vibrant and attractive in the typical artsy way. There are some really hilarious moments in the film, and it captures the bittersweet quality of being young and poor well. The children in the movie do an amazing job making introspective lines sound very natural. Similar lines in The Thin Red Line sounded painfully corny to me coming from supposed soldiers, but somehow these young actors and actresses pull it off well. The movie presents an interesting world with children who have more complexity than the adults which is a great change of pace. However, if I see one more scene of someone releasing a dove into the air I'm going to become physically ill. There are little melodramatic moments here and there such as that which keep me from really liking the film. It's definitely a movie that will provide some memorable images and the cast of children is one of the best I've seen. I also liked the fact that the movie doesn't preach to the audience or judge its characters to a great extent. A great movie to see with a child with lots of depth for adults to chew on too. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but certainly worthwhile","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is always a pleasure to see someone with a distinct voice who is not afraid to express it.  It is comforting that young filmmakers are willing to make films like GW and not the run-of-the mill indie crap that stills dots the landscape. The film certainly captures the feel of a languid summer's day. I agree with those who find it hypnotic.  While it is probably too slow for today's dumbed down, impatient audiences, this film deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"A very special, deeply poetic, must-see film","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film won awards at both the Toronto and the Newport film festivals and just barely misses masterpiece status because of a few overly sentimental and predictable scenes here and there. It is a fantastically photographed, Terrence Malick inspired (even more by The Thin Red Line though than Days of Heaven) slice of cinematic poetry, that focuses mainly on painting realistic, three dimensional, non-stereotypical and deeply touching portraits of 4 poor black kids of about 12 or 13, and how they experience life.  The kids live in a semi-integrated, racially mixed rural North Carolina area playing in junkyards with other kids. The very funny story is narrated by one of the kids, Nazia, a precocious black girl of 12 who has left her skinny boyfriend Buddy because he's immature and is, oddly enough, chasing after his best friend George Richardson who seems even more immature on the surface!  The accidental death of one of the kids causes events to take a different turn. Some of the scenes in the film were so touching they brought tears to my eyes; but a few seemed to be there trying too hard to be non-cliche just for the sake of non-cliche. The film also loses a bit of realism by not using any profanity. But the fact that it focuses on young kids, and the unformed, still untarnished and romantic way that they see the world even in their blighted surroundings makes it only a small handicap. A few curse words here and there would've just turned the film into an R-rated feature and lost it some of its potential audience. As it is, though, it's ridiculous that this film is being shown only on the art-house circuit. Even though it is a poetic and visceral film, and not the kind of film audiences have been conditioned to expect, there's more quality here than in 99.9% of the films made in the past 10 years, and there's no reason why it shouldn't be promoted to a wider audience (especially younger kids of 10 to 14 years of age who hardly ever see their deeper, inner experience of the world realistically portrayed).  "},{"Title":"unexepected is the point","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot of the negative comments of this film have attacked its confusion, and that it breaks many cinematic rules, but I think this is much of its point. If you want a film that fits into the expected craft of filmmaking then this is certainly not it, although where it does fit it does so brilliantly. Probably due to this most of these reviews have also tried to pin the film down by comparing it to other films (Terence Malick's work being the strong link) but to assume that these similarities will carry all the way through is misleading.I think explaining this will partially ruin the effect of the film so if you haven't seen it yet then I suggest not to read further. It is one of those films that I find works best with no prior knowledge and a willingness to enjoy, rather than categorize - which is probably why some critics have a hard time with it. Just accept the unexpected and the film's confusion becomes quite enriching.To me the film is mostly confusing because it refuses to fall into any given stereo types of what one could expect from plot or character development. It starts out with light, seemingly irrelevant comedy that is contrasted with the somewhat somber Mallick style narrative and brooding cinematography. This combination builds uneasiness as one knows that this film must be anything but light given its setup (a poverty stricken post-industrial town in the south, where children spend there days playing in a dangerous wasteland and seem to be growing up to fast - some similarities to Kids here although on another level).The best example I can think of is George's uncle, who throughout the film builds an ominous presence that made me fear he would ultimately end up committing some violent act to George or another main character. He does end up killing George's dog, and one is ready to condemn him for this, but then his character is turned completely inside out when he apologizes to George. As far as I can remember this is the last scene with him in, and his character seems to be at least somewhat of a lesson in not judging people from their outward appearances. His final actions are completely unexpected, somewhat absurd and yet (if one is willing to go with them) very touching.This also occurred, atl east to me, when George saves a white boys life. After this event the boys mother comes to thank George's aunt, and the scene seems to contain a building tension, that the mother is having a hard time thanking her and that George's aunt is very cautious to accept this gratitude. I almost expected a racial element to come out of this, as one would expect it too in a film about blacks in the south, but instead two stranges end up embracing and consoling one another, quite suddenly. No where in the film does any explicit racial tension arise, which is amazingly refreshing.Building tension (of all kinds) in the plot is often diminished by an unexpected out come. Most commonly this occurs with a scene that will cut off just when one expected the final words of wisdom to be reached, which in the scenes of the railway workers is incredibly amusing.The film ends with the narrator saying something to the effect of and this is how it went, but I could be wrong as my father was a banker and my mother made perfumes. I am assuming this is the directors words rather than the character, as there was no indication that she came from a different social-economic background from the rest of the characters whose families were all close to poverty. If I am correct (I'm only unsure as no other reviews/comments have mentioned this critical line) then it is a reference to the films confusion, and how uncertain it would be to judge this situation from any point of view. "},{"Title":"You won't forget these kids...","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie the other night and I still can't stop thinking about it. George and Buddy, especially, will keep you up at night.  These kids have such goodness in them and to them, the world is theirs to conquer.  They don't realize that in reality, the world has forgotten about them already. This adds so much power to the movie.  You want to reach out and help George and make sure Buddy keeps singing to his mom.  The scene when George attends the parade also sticks out in my mind because more than anything, I was afraid that he would be picked on.  I can go on and on about this movie. I highly recommend it.  One last note, the cinematography is amazing! "},{"Title":"Not since E.T. have I been so moved. 5 stars","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  See this movie. Bring your kids. If it was rated it would be PG and I think children will identify with it most. I saw George Washington at the Los Angeles Independent film festival and I was in awe of it. This movie is so affecting that I didn't even realize how deeply it moved me until later that night when I told my wife about it and I uncontrollably broke down into sobs. As I was describing the preteen characters and what they go through I identified deeply with what we all lose as we enter adolescence, and that's innocence. It's not at all depressing and it's not a plot driven Hollywood action film. It's simply a pure work of magic and beauty that successfully captures the last days of childlike innocence before these kids become teenagers. I think David Green is 'the man' for being brave enough to risk using an improvisational directing technique for his actors. Often times the words are unscripted. David would give a certain thrust and point to be made and then would let the actors go. That's what gives this movie's characters a sense of truth in their feelings when they perform. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"You must experience this film","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has a unique intimacy which blends amazing  performances with stunning surroundings.Even if you love predictable, formula style movies, give this experience a try.  You'll never feel so close to a bunch of amazing children on the screen.A beautiful, serious, funny, poetic journey awaits you when you witness this movie. "}{"Title":"A Modern Masterpiece (Essential Viewing)","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like reading a great novel. The words which pour out of these kids mouths, are at times completely natural and others poetic and rich. This is not your typical independent film, dealing with life amongst the poor, in fact though destitute the setting is kinda magical and Utopian. (George doesn't get harassed, assaulted, while patrolling the neighborhood with a cape? Adults and children, speak to each other with no recognition of age, etc.) But none of this distracts from the realism of the story or characters, well realism is the wrong word...naturalism seems more fitting.A group of friends in North Carolina (all played by real people, no actors) deal with boredom, crushes, and growing up, until tragedy strikes, and changes them all, some attempt to escape, others take to lofty (super-heroesque) heroism.May seem a bit slow to some, but it's sincerely one of the best movies I've ever seen, it has a life and uniqueness all it's own which is difficult to put into words. I'd heard whispers of this movie for years, and now that I've finally seen it, I understand exactly the reasons for the hushed admiration and awe.A moving and inspiring masterpiece, I wish there were more like this...for one it's a film with non-middle class black characters, which doesn't immediately fall into clichés of race, class, etc, allowing the characters to grow into actual 3 dimensional human forms, and not just sacrificial lambs for heavy handed social tragedy (Okay I'm getting a bit off point, and maybe personalizing this, but it did make a difference in my appreciation, and perhaps Gordon's directing. In the Charlie Rose Interview (for those of you with the DVD), Gordon mentions for instance using ambient and string music as opposed to traditionally expected hip hop or urban music. It's small details like this which help establish the films tone apart from it's environment, and to show how tranquil and mystical even junkyards and vacant lots can seem to fresh eyes and minds.)....Anywho it's a great film.I just wish I had my own tropical island, I wish... I wish I was... I could go to China, I wish I could go out of The States... I wish I had my own planet, I wish I... I wish there were 200 of me, man... I wish I could just sit around with computers and technology and just brainstorm all day man. I wish I was born again... I wish I could get saved and give my life to Christ... then maybe he can forgive me for what I did... I wish there was just one belief... my belief. "},{"Title":"I hope you live forever.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Gordon Green is a master of his trade. While some will argue that George Washington does not depict the best that Green has to offer, I believe that it is a great opening to a new chapter of modern film-making. For George Washington, Green has borrowed techniques that have made such directors as Larry Clark, Harmony Korine, and Terrence Malick infamous in the film community, and transformed them into his very own. George Washington is a perfect example of this. With beautiful narration, exquisite background, and fresh faces that deliver dialogue worthy of both Oscar and recognition, Green gives us a chilling tale that is fraught with realism, desperation, and horror. What immediately pulled me in to this film were the still-shots that defined the culture of the town. These young children are experiencing everything that we have ever encountered in our lives up to that breaking moment of insanity. We are pulled in to the story and direction because Green is able to bring truth to his fictional tale. While we all know that this is just another story, Green send goosebumps down our spine with his passion of realism. For a majority of this film, I found myself questioning the fictionalization of this film. What obviously were moments created by the imagination transformed into those that you could see on the streets of small town North Carolina.An element that added to the realism of the background and story were the characters. Green padded his directorial debut with unknowns and was able to command more emotion and dedication than you could see in anything big-budget Hollywood. While it was obvious that he was working with child actors (i.e., some delivery was slow, some direction seemed choppy, and for one scene characterization seemed weak), he overcomes the typical stereotypes and brings the best of his imaginary world and that of the children into this film. I loved that when Buddy went mission that Nasia thought that it was because he was still in love with her and could not cope with the emotion. It seemed like a cheap moment of dialogue, but it made complete and utter sense in this film. The actor that played George, Donald Holden, was phenomenal. He brought that sad hero to the surface and we, as audience members, found ourselves rooting for him from the beginning. He was simple, in fact, one could say that was a technique that Green employed to be successful with George Washington, he kept things simple. What made George Washington different than Korine's Gummo is that Green doesn't emphasize the poverty level. While he makes it clear with the surroundings and home-life of George, he doesn't throw it in our faces as a shock tactic like Korine does. Not that there is anything wrong with Korine's tactics, I just thought that Green's approach was more subtle. I also draw references to M. Night Shyamalan's vastly underrated Unbreakable due to the subject matter. George Washington is the story about finding heroes in the most unlikely of places. It is the story of how tragedy births the heroes of our lives, and while we should never disregard the tragedy, it does bring to light those that want to change. Unbreakable, released the same year as George Washington, implies the same. One could find a great research topic by comparing these two films side by side.I think I may have zigzagged a bit in that last paragraph, but it just demonstrates my excitement for this film. This is my second time watching George Washington and I think it gets better and better with each viewing. Criterion was correct to add it to their collection of ever-growing films. This is a film about childhood. Rarely in film is it explored with such darkness and honesty. Lately, there have been more films that surround itself around the topic (Chumbscubber, Mean Creek), but for 2000 this was a pivotal film. I was engulfed by the reaction that Green pulled from the different characters. Already I have spoken about George's transformation, but I also loved the insecurity that Vernon began feeling and the truth that Sonya finally saw about her future. It is sad, but extremely real. This film reminded me of a modern Stand By Me.I must end with saying that this is not a film for everyone. If you are not a fan of some of the directors that I have mentioned above, than you may not enjoy George Washington. It is slow, simple, and developed. Green takes images and makes the visuals actually work for him instead of fighting against it. The narration could be annoying for some, but for me it completed this film. I would have enjoyed more time spent with George's Aunt and Uncle due to so much is unknown about them, but that is what makes Green's work superb. I liked this film. For me, it is a prime example of true American film-making. It takes us back to the roots of what cinema should be about. George Washington takes us away from the explosions, the CGI, and the overpaid actors while delivering to us a story that should have shaken the Oscar tree. Criterion was correct to release this film in their collection, and it is correct for you to add it to yours. This is David Gordon Green at his finest!Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Strangely real, wonderfully quirky.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" George Washington (2001) ****David Gordon Green's first film, 'George Washington' is a film about people stuck in a small town in a summer that will be like none other before, or after it. There are kids, and there are grown ups. Some of the kids want nothing more than to be kids; some of the kids want nothing more than to be grown up; and some of the adults want nothing more than to feel like kids again.The kids wander around aimlessly. Messing about, having fun, at least as much fun as they can in such a place. They try to steal a car. Not because they are necessarily bad, but because what else is there to do. They place with dirt, and throw random objects, and one girl begins to write on a wall with feces. Myself growing up in a small town I can tell you things that happen in this movie are in no way unrealistic. I did not grow up in the poverty which these kids do, but I grew up with the same sense of boredom. That boredom when your mother makes you go outside and find something else to do, forbidding you to watch the TV or play video games. The adults are equally bored they sit around talking about random things and some of them go out of their way to mess around with the kids.There could have been about 10 different straight on plot lines in this movie, but instead the movie just goes where it will and lets you experience all the things that these kids will during that summer. After all it is only fitting since life does not go in one direction without detours. There is death; a saved life; a search for heroes. But none of these things are overly important. This is about the journey these people go through over the course of a summer.The voice over, done by Candace Evanofski playing Nasia, obviously draws a lot of inspiration from Terrence Malick's 'Days of Heaven.' Indeed the whole film draws heavily from Malick's films. Green readily admits his admiration of Malick, and lucky him, he got to work with him on his latest movie 'Undertow.' The actors are all fantastic. But then really they are not acting. These are not actors, they are people being people. It works here and makes everything seem even more real.In the title, I called this movie quirky. I'm starting to think that it might be the wrong word. I perhaps just should have left it at 'strangly real.' First impression is this is quirky, but thinking more about it just seems a very real picture of real people who act quirky by definition. Trying to pick this movie apart is like trying to chop down a tree with a spoon. I think its best to leave it at this The movie is a fantastically real portrait of small town boredom; it's fantastically shot with beautiful cinematography; the characters are real; and the movie is wonderfully touching. This is a fantastic film here, and one of the better directorial debuts. George Washington is one of those under-looked and under-appreciated gems.4/4 "},{"Title":"Stunning...","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Malick wannabe? You've got to be kidding me. Green has a style that's singularly his own. Love this movie. Green has a future ahead of him. See it now. Laugh. Cry. Immerse yourself in the beauty. Enough said. A Malick wannabe? You've got to be kidding me. Green has a style that's singularly his own. Love this movie. Green has a future ahead of him. See it now. Laugh. Cry. Immerse yourself in the beauty. Enough said. A Malick wannabe? You've got to be kidding me. Green has a style that's singularly his own. Love this movie. Green has a future ahead of him. See it now. Laugh. Cry. Immerse yourself in the beauty. Enough said. A Malick wannabe? You've got to be kidding me. Green has a style that's singularly his own. Love this movie. Green has a future ahead of him. See it now. Laugh. Cry. Immerse yourself in the beauty. Enough said. "},{"Title":"A Very Promising Debut","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this film - I love the episodic story, which unfolds at a languid, lifelike pace - this subtlety captures the feel of life in a Southern city (GEORGE WASHINGTON was filmed in Winston-Salem, NC, one of the older and more industrial cities in the state, with a cast of locals) very realistically. You don't see a trace of the mint julieps-and-kudzu (or hamfisted BLUE VELVET/DELIVERANCE freakfests) version of the South still favored by filmmakers who set stories in the region. I also love - finally - seeing a film with a fascinating story, enacted through a predominantly black cast that dodges the clichés and stereotypes seen in 'black film' (whether from black or white directors), and Green's love for allowing his actors' personalities room to express themselves should serve him well in the future. Characters here are allowed to dream and imagine, and there are moments when this film soars with a shimmering expressiveness - brought down to earth with a few well-placed dramatic turns, but still rather magical overall. The similarities with Terrence Malick and Charles Burnett are obvious; but sparseness and the unobtrusive ability to see the complexity and dignity within characters also favorably recalls some Ozu, Eric Rohmer and Satyajit Ray, and if Green isn't yet their equal, he's still well ahead most of his indie film contemporaries. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  GEORGE WASHINGTON is not for the faint of heart.  It's painfully slow. But, if the viewer can be patient, he or she will soon become of the director's magical hand.  Especially the latter part of the film.In addition, Paul Schneider's simple, honest performance as a dude just working on the rails is one of better debuts I've seen in a while.Ted's Grade B+/A-  "},{"Title":"The letter of the day is M Moody, Meandering, Meditative, Melancholy...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington isn't about the first president of the United States. The free-floating story centers around a group children in North Carolina during one summer, after which their lives will be changed forever. We meet these kids and their families there's George, Buddy, Nasia, Vernon, Sonya (the sole non-black child in the group). Buddy has broken up with his girlfriend, Nasia, and suspects his best friend, George, is dating her now. George, who's father we see in jail, unexplained (I love you so much, sometimes I can't even breathe), lives with his Aunt Ruth and Uncle Damascus. We learn that Damascus is nervous around animals.Ten minutes into the film we get a premonition of what's to come. I kept waiting for it to happen as I knew it would, and as it did, it indeed made me grimace (three times, in fact). The inevitable tragedy isn't quite what I thought it would be and while it is one of the central events in the film, after it's over the film doesn't lose anything.Damascus works at what seems to be a junkyard, with some others, Rico being a character we get to know. During one conversation Rico has with Buddy, Buddy laments his lost love and Rico gets as much out of this conversation with Buddy as Buddy gets does from him. Buddy says, I miss having her around, being able to talk to her about my feelings and stuff, and it's one of those perfect moments in the film where the inflection is just right. It's where a film like this really shines. The actors bring every ounce of their person into their roles, which isn't to say they merely play themselves.We are told, almost casually, after a while within the film that George's skull never fully developed and remains soft, has to stay dry and that he needs to wear a helmet to protect his head. We learn a lot of interesting things like this, or like when we learn that Buddy has to sing to his mother to help her go to sleep. That's it. Just a little nugget of information that may or may not be important later in the film.An amazing scene at a pool that's so effortless and gliding defines the movie's tone. It appears as if it's just another event to David Gordon Green, the first-time director, but the delicate care he gives the scene and the slight distortion makes it wonderful. Like the it in the film, it doesn't serve as the basis for the story, it's just an incident that takes place within it.In the way Green handles one scene, in which someone confesses to haven been molested by a dog, he doesn't allow for any slight bit of comedy, in a scene that in another movie could be made uproariously funny. It's almost a miracle. And the would-be morbidity in the next scene still seems weird, but remains a nice gesture, nonetheless.There are funny moments of strange truth that would, in another context, be laugh-out-loud funny, but here it makes us smile and nod with recognition. It's that kind of movie full of realizations about the characters and we identify with them because we see ourselves in them. The teens may ruminate more than we'd expect someone of that age to, but it's a kind of honesty and purity that only young people have.I've heard some people say that the film is sort of Lynchian, but this escapes me. I admire Lynch greatly and both Lynch and Green use their artistry magnificently, but, at least for me, in very different ways, for different purposes.There are numerous similarities between George Washington and Malick's Days of Heaven. The black and white stills at the end of this film recall the opening black and white stills in that film. There is also narration by a young girl, Nasia, very characteristic of Days of Heaven. Also, like Malick, Green shows his characters, in segues, being. We simply observe them as a transition from one scene to the next. Unlike Malick, who has made only period movies, Green has set his film in the present, but never lets that affect his film in a negative way or in a way that may date it regrettably. The characters talk more here than in Malick's films, and Green isn't quite the philosopher Malick is --  it seems more like he waited for profundities to appear, rather than instating them himself -- but he's just about as good as a visual storyteller. The look is clear, dreary, bright, sunny, white and sensual.When the film was over, I had a few questions but ambiguity is rarely done so right. Roger Ebert said about Magnolia that it was the kind of film he loved -- leave logic at the door. Well, this film isn't really challenging on a logical level, but on a stylistic one it's important to open up and let the movie flow over you. The movie has sentiment, but is devoid of that fascist sort sentimentality that makes a mess of movies. I like that we're given the opportunity to feel for ourselves. (Remember the scene in which I said Green allows no comedy? Well, that's not true, he just handles it in such a way that allows it to be either hilarious or deadly serious or both. I saw it as serious.) There are no cues -- musical or otherwise -- that inform us when to feel what. It's also great to see black life shown in a non-stereotypical way. This never seems like a black movie, it's a movie that happens to feature a predominantly black cast not constrained to the clichés and rules of black movies, and that's something we deserve more of.Early in the film, Nasia says that in her friends she sees goodness. And with the way in which Green filters his story and his ideas through his characters, when we watch this film, we see the goodness in ourselves.**** "},{"Title":"A Poetic Collage","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Writer director Gordon Green has fashioned a liesurely paced, poetic collage of scenes from a summer of youthful innocence, forced into a world of maturity. Green and his cinematographer, Tim Orr, truly create a silk purse from a sow's ear an ordinary industrial landscape, a weed-infested railroad track, and even a trash heap can all take on a look of beauty and grace. As our young characters come to grips with their growing maturity, so their surroundings seem to reach out to embrace them and cushion the blows of reality.  For these ears, much of the regional dialogue could have benefitted from subtitles; however, story is not the essential thing here.  Rather mood, atmosphere, and feeling is the focus.Seeing George Washington on the big screen in a fine print was a pleasure for the eyes.  Beauty can indeed be found in seemingly ordinary settings, when one has the ability to make the discovery. Green, Orr and their company certainly did in this contemplative, poetic rendering.   "},{"Title":"Ambitious debut coldly calculated to emulate a specific type of film","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Synopsis tells us GW is a 'delicately told and deceptively simple story of a group of children' but what I saw was a coming-of-age slice of minimalist Americana too deliberate to resonate with true emotional gravitas and too restrained and artificial to examine the children as anything else than vessels for whatever fancy monologues DGG put in their mouths, every pause and glance of the movie calculated to emulate a specific type of film, I won't say art-house because I don't consider Terrence Malick whom DGG seems to be channeling an art-house filmmaker and I won't even say southern Gothic because DGG lacks the affinity for the Gothic that made TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD such a good movie (the parts of it that don't have Gregory Peck giving courtroom speeches that is) or Flannery O'Connor's children characters so alive and vivid. Filling the gaps with quirks (argh!!) and lacking the truthfulness and honesty the material deserves, for all it has going for it (a sense of pace and framing, which to me, like I said above, seems a bit too coldly calculated which is not surprising given DGG's age when he made it), Green's debut can be in turns good, amusing, annoying, and embarrassingly bad. But then I remind myself it's the debut of a 25 year old director. While directors who worked in the studio system 50 years ago (in the US, Italy, and Japan) got their chance behind the camera only after painstaking tutelage as assistants and technicians in various posts and got to make plenty of bad-average programme films before they hit their stride, young directors these days are called to succeed on their first film, get a good festival run and maybe a DVD deal if they're lucky, wash dishes to repay credit card debts for the next 10 years if they're not. I don't know what to think about DGG though. UNDERTOW showed significant progress as long as it remained geared towards a taut Night Of the Hunteresque southern-fried thriller and before it regressed back to Green's feeble GW shenanigans for the final act. PINEAPPLE EXPRESS has none of whatever mark these two films taken together would suggest. Although a less ambitious debut, I think his friend Jeff Nichols eclipsed him with (the DGG produced) SHOTGUN STORIES. "},{"Title":"A chore to watch","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Washington is a simple story, told by characters who, at least in my opinion, are mediocre at acting. Much of the movie feels like it is being read from a script. But, in all honesty, little happens in this picture. The characters aren't developed in a way that I could understand or even care about them. It's watchable, on video at least, until the scene where we learn about how one of the characters was sexually abused by a dog. At that point, George Washington becomes downright ridiculous.  "}{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worse movies I've ever seen in my life.  If you don't believe it, see it yourself.  You'll be sorry.   I can't believe the glowing reviews.  This just plain sucks.  Someone compared it to watching paint dry.  Believe me watching paint dry is much more exciting.  The movie has no entertainment value whatsoever.So Roger Ebert liked it and gave it '****'.  So?  He's an idiot.  Rent this movie and see for yourself. No wonder Gene Siskel argued with him so much.  He's probably rolling over in his grave after seeing Ebert's rating on this one.The glowing reviews on this website?  They're out of their minds, period. "},{"Title":"George and his friends spend a some days","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A complete masterpiece of American cinema. Easily one of the best films ever produced in this country. David Gordon Green doesn't announce his arrival as the next great filmmaker, he screams it at the top of his lungs. I have never been more moved by a film in my life. It's so heartbreakingly true. I wept for nearly the entire second half of the damn thing, it's that good.Every aspect of the film is phenomenal. From the destructively beautiful cinematography by Tim Orr to the unbelievably real performances Mr. Green gets out of his child and adult actors. The script and direction in general could not possibly be made any better.This film deserves every ounce of praise it has received and much more.Overall though it is disappointing how few people have seen it, and DG Green's other films as well. All the Real Girls and Undertow are also both exquisitely well made. Green is just as good a filmmaker as PT Anderson, Darren Aronofsky and Todd Solondz, and he's a much better filmmaker than just about everybody else near his age who gets more attention than him including QT, David Russell,Wes Anderson,and any other name one might think of. "},{"Title":"a beautiful, quirky masterpiece","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Green borrows a lot from Malick's BADLANDS and DAYS OF HEAVEN, GEORGE WASHINGTON is a beautifully shot meditation on kids in a rotting, industrial, southern town. The characters are real, and perform well. When I saw this film I was blown away, and started it over and watched it again. I really appreciated the sound, and how it assaulted the senses along with the visuals. Better though, was George's character, determined to become a superhero and save this decaying town by any means necessary. 10 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"a beautiful, quirky masterpiece","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Green borrows a lot from Malick's BADLANDS and DAYS OF HEAVEN, GEORGE WASHINGTON is a beautifully shot meditation on kids in a rotting, industrial, southern town. The characters are real, and perform well. When I saw this film I was blown away, and started it over and watched it again. I really appreciated the sound, and how it assaulted the senses along with the visuals. Better though, was George's character, determined to become a superhero and save this decaying town by any means necessary. 10 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quite simply the best movie I have ever seen.  The story of the children is both haunting and warming, the town itself is a character, everything in this movie is perfect--there almost seems no point in deciding what to highlight. The acting is so effortless and more real than most everything Hollywood turns out.  It is entertaining as a film and evocative as art. Ok, it is hard to write movie recommendations without cliches, but you will not find one in this movie.  Just see it...there is not enough that can be said.   "},{"Title":"A love it or hate it film","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is overflowing with very thoughtful camera work, meandering dialogue, sequences that ask for you to pretty much meditate on symbols, and is so certain of the charm of its own characters that it'll just watch them interact for long stretches.  If you love that kind of thing, George Washington has a lot to offer.  This movie is torture for the more literal types.  Someone watching this movie for a murder story will find 90% of the film a gratuitous waste.The film is a symbolic universe all its own, like a distinctive David Lynch reality where everything looks kinda like our world, but isn't (the FBI has agents chasing spirits.)  In George Washington kids speak with the voices of adults, adults seem curiously childlike, even garbage is beautiful, everything is permanently summer, and someone morphs from a dragon to a super hero. "},{"Title":"kinda funny, kinda sad","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was probably my favorite of the films I saw at this year's Johns Hopkins Film Festival, I found myself laughing out loud at certain times while almost tearing up a bit only a couple minutes later. Only later did I realize this movie was trying a little hard, movie comes off as a little contrived at certain points, but the characters manage for the most part to pull of their almost (ad-libbed?) sounding lines. I didn't mind tho.Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"GUMMO without half as much originality.","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film seemed quite unoriginal. I'm afraid I was disappointed. So many who have seen it who find the interesting or different must be easily impressed. The director was obviously more influenced by GUMMO(1997, Harmony Korine) than the work of Malick or Herzog, which seemed to inspire GUMMO's tone. To make it more obvious, this film came out only a couple of years after GUMMO. While GEORGE WASHINGTON has a couple of moments worth acknowledging, the film seems rather weak in its entirety. The characters may be a bit more likable, but I'm afraid there was little significance to the narrative once the film began in its direction. Now why has Criterion released this on DVD? I don't understand it. I'm afraid I'm usually a bit skeptical when such a film gets released soon after such an impressionable one makes it mark. I'd much rather prefer the most original and creative one. "},{"Title":"Stifling","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wanted to see this movie ever since Roger Ebert heaped praise on it, so I was surprised that I found it to be suffocating, frustrating, and depressing. I just wanted the people in this movie to have more, not just financially, but more opportunity, more respect, more reason to live. If that was indeed the point, then this movie did not give me any new insights.The interaction among the kids was mundane, except for an occasional soliloquy, or exchange, that obviously came directly from the screen writer's imagination and seemed out-of-place. The adult males were a sad lot - the goofiness of one of the construction workers seemed forced, as did much of the story line.This movie is nicely photographed and created a mood, but there was just not enough here to get me involved. "},{"Title":"True blue newbie","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The director, David Gordon Green, takes from Terence Malick andCharles Burnett (what sources for a 25-year-old kid!), but everyframe of his hyperpoeticized first feature is 100% his own damnbusiness. There is little to be said about this undescribable tonepoem set among mostly black and some white children in a quiet,soft, rotting-industrial Southern town the landscapes evoke DavidLynch, but the goofily relaxed race relations are pure gen-y. Fromthe stylized monologues of his cracker menial laborers (whichsound like Joel and Ethan Coen doing Flannery O'Connorprimitivism) to the widescreen, tableau-like compositions, withGreen constantly pulling backward into a rectangle-shape as ifevery moment of these hayseeds' lives were a Last Supper,everything in GEORGE WASHINGTON is an Oh...my...God!moment. Not all of it makes sense, the latter sections, involving agreen youth who starts to think he's a comic-book superhero, lieflatter than the first ones...but what images! What editing! What asense of performance! Maybe superhero is the right image. In thisone no-budget feature, Green leaps over the Anderson Twins(Wes and P.T.), not to mention many other high-paid Hollywoodhacks, in a single bound. "}{"Title":"FAUX PRIMITIF","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Imagine a bunch of simple simple people, most of them children, a few, uneducated adults, wandering around with eyes closed, arms outstretched, groping in air for ... for ... for who knows what ... goodness? god? country? something to live for? a hero? Well, that's what this rambling little avowed slice of life may, just may, be about. Who knows? I don't think even writer and director David Gordon Green really does.Set mostly amid the abandoned rust belt ruins of North Carolina,  the film follows a group of ~5 children aged ~10-14, with each scene affecting as impromptu and naturalistic a style as it can. The children, save one, are all black ( and, in what must be the goofiest stretch of medical gobbledygook, one of them, the George of the title, is supposed to have unossified fontanelles in his skull, which jeopardize the underlying brain if exposed to water, and necessitate his wearing a football helmet at all times). Interspersed are some scenes with adult, mostly white, trash morons, mostly hanging around a scrap heap and rail yard, and affecting the most inane dialogue imaginable. A 12 year-old girl narrates, e.g., I can tell people are good; I can tell by their hands and feet. There's some talk here and there about need, loneliness, redemption, etc., constituting oblique, dilute references to Southern culture on the skids, I guess. Being an American film, lack of intellectual or poetic substance is quickly made up for with death and mishap (if you can't make it work, destroy it).I think the film tries for the sweet spontaneous dishevelment of the salt-of-the earth which Erroll Morris captured perfectly in his documentary Vernon, Florida, but which here is at best a near miss. It also tries for the off-beat low-key obliqueness of Jarmusch. But after about 50 minutes of, Hi, what you doin'?,Nothin'.You don't feed that dog enough.Yes I do.No you don't.my mind started to numb up (it started thinking of dinner). There's really none of the wonder of life, the wonder of childhood, the sweet chaotic openness of real life, real time. The children aren't even really children. There are no gratifying insights into character, no provocative statements about society or the world, nothing. Just a stylized anti-style.It used to be relatively easy to tell crap from the good stuff. But now, in these post-industrial, post-modern times where the avant guard decorates bank walls, it's well nigh impossible. When anything goes, nothing does. For some reason, maybe because it's southern too, this empty little movie reminded me of how much I hate the music of REM, its grey monotone, its lack of melody, of intelligible lyrics, its awful stupid chords and dreadful beat. This is the cinematic equivalent, I guess, who knows? "},{"Title":" Haunting and yearning","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  GEORGE WASHINGTON (2000) ***  Novice filmmaker David Gordon Green's dream-like, documentarytoned look at a small group of North Carolina pre-adolescentfriends during one eventful summer has some quirks (largely itsprotagonist named after the father of our country, more or less andplayed by the sullen Donald Holden) and unusual turn of eventswith a cast of amateur unknowns that adds a grace note ofmelancholy and truthfullness to the pangs of childhood youth lostand innocence never regained.   Haunting and yearning.   "},{"Title":"Like watching paint dry","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ebert pointed out in his glowing, four star review of George Washington that You hang around with these kids all summer....etc.  And, that is exactly the problem with this film. It's like hanging around with kids which, if it were all that interesting, we'd all be hanging around with strange kids for entertainment. Furthermore, the kids in George Washington aren't all that interesting. There's little doubt that newbie writer/director Green is a work-in-progress, but this film moves glacially and eventually become one long drone of small talk. A slice of boring, backwater, poor folk life which, though very well executed, is just not sufficiently substantive to be recommendable even in the face of countless critical raves. (C+) "},{"Title":"it has soul.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you do not like this film you have no soul. no heart. no vision. you have nothing in you that sets you apart from the next mindless moron on a cell phone in his SUV. Go watch braveheart, die hard or the passion of the christ. I really didn't intend to only diss the people who hated this film. I meant to discuss the beauty of the story, the characters, the actors, the editing, sound and direction. Easily said - it was more than a movie - it was a film. It lived and breathed. It had soul. Frankly, I can't stand to wait another minute for David Gordon Green's next effort. And holy crap does that Paul Schneider give me hot pants! OK, back to my vodka, now? P.S. the last song during the credits (wish I knew what it was) made my night. Thanks. Sorry again for making fun of the people who didn't like the movie, it wasn't nice. I just can't see from their perspective - and don't want to.  "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was... interesting. It's different, that's for sure. Takes place in a poor area of the U.S. (not sure where) and looks into the lives of some kids living there. The main character (well, I guess he's the closest thing to a main character) is George, who has a sensitive skull and is kind of slow.The movie struck me as very ad-libbed. I think I was probably wrong to assume that, but while watching, that's how some of the acting made me feel. Thinking of it in that way, you can understand that some stuff will work and some stuff won't move you. But if this was ad-libbed, it's 50x better than that piece of crap Black & White. Anyway.The movie is different. At first, I thought it'd be kind of neorealist. It has elements that are (setting, casting, certain scenes), but it also has elements of surrealism and other styles. It seems kind of random sometimes - like the director shot a lot and kept what he liked. The characters in it are pretty interesting. Most are black, but the town is mixed - some black, some white, all poor. There is a scene in which some teenage girls are sitting doing hair, talking - this I really enjoyed. It felt familiar, but unfamiliar. Why? Real life vs. reel life. The scene drives home how little we really see of the black female experience on the screen.The settings + the low budget make for inexpensive-looking but engrossing photography.  Storywise, um, it has stuff that drives it, but story is not the main focus of the film (see my previous comments on randomness). You can mainly look at it in terms of what parts you felt and what you made you go Uh, okay.... It has some very funny moments. It has touching moments. It has a number of disturbing moments. All in all, it has a lot in it. But I have to admit, I wasn't completely caught by it. Maybe the differentness of the style and tone were a little hard for me to assimilate. But as a film student I'm going to nix that option for the sake of my ego.About differentness I was being kind of vague. George Washington is not just Well, that was a refreshing break from the norm type different or genre-defying or new approach - to some degree, it may be these things but most of all, it's I don't really have a clear idea of how I feel about this movie because it's hard to have a clear understanding of the movie itself type different.  That's how you get some people praising it to death and some who listen to them being not disappointed, but just... unsure.     "}]