[{"Title":"Lighten up people","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"173 out of 264 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've been reading the reviews for this film and have found myself sighing continually. Why? Because too many people take films like this far too literally. Like the reviewer who questions the characters decision to go back to the church. Hello, this is a horror film and if they weren't stupid we wouldn't have a movie. What were you expecting? Kubrick? Jeepers Creepers does exactly what it says on the tin. It's creepy, it's silly, and, if you can get over yourselves for a minute, lots of fun. Leave your brain at the door and have fun.Niz "},{"Title":"Nice premise, squandered","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"65 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Victor Salva's auteur turn in B-horrorland is better than most, mainly because he is so much more interesting a storyteller than many of his genre contemporaries.  Jeepers has several things going for it suspense, developed characters, above-average acting, and visual style.  That's not to say it's great or even very good.  The movie is wildly uneven, a problem bound to disappoint anyone grabbed by its beguiling opening.About that opening like the low-budget filmmaker he most resembles, George Romero, Salva has built his story upon simple, elemental horror.  Kids witness what look like bodies being dumped down a sewer pipe next to a rotted church; their curiosity must be satisfied.  What he accomplishes in the first act is a quite masterful bogeyman set-up, disturbing yet inviting, and for a moment, we may think we hear Tobe Hooper's chainsaws. Especially good is Salva's patience in developing his sibling protagonists, their dialogue and reading good enough to establish what most genre work can't even dream of -- plausible characters.  But where Romero is famous for exploring the dimensions of his (deceptively) simple premises, Salva retreats from them into mannered predictability.Narrowing his scope to a cat and mouse game, the writer-director fritters away too many possibilities even before the second act is out, and the third act is plainly bad.  Why bother subverting expectations early on if you're only going to resort to cliché later?  The clairvoyant character is lifted from The Shining; the police station siege is a  Terminator retread. And why establish an aesthete-predator at all if you're only going to have him jump out periodically and kill, like any Freddy Krueger?  Salva has complained about last-minute budgetary restrictions yet so much has gone wrong by the final half hour, dissipating tension, squandering sympathy, indulging in camp, and (the worst misstep) calling in his deus ex machina voodoo chile, that it's hard to see what more money could have done.Salva's imagery, however, is always striking.  The production design is shoestring brilliance, helping make his highway and sewer pipe sequences genuinely spooky.  And there's subtext aplenty.  The current of fetishistic erotic violence invites all sorts of interpretation; in fact, fairly or not, this may be the first horror film for which knowledge of the director's well-publicized past seems likely to make some parts scarier. "},{"Title":"Terrific, sharp and surprising","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"105 out of 169 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is supposed to be your average monster-movie but turns out to be a very scary and above all a very entertaining film, whose script ist cleverly written and which has some sharp and enjoyable  dialogues. The cast is also stunning, especially Gina Philips and Justin Long in the leading roles of Trish and Darryl. Jeepers Creepers provides some terrific pictures you will not forget. Definitely Salva's finest work up-to-date, leaving his poor debut feature Powder far behind. The less you know about this one the more fun it brings, even if  there are also some disappointing facts the special-fx-work does sometimes look cheap, but in times of CGI-effects in nearly every two fantasy-movies, i prefer the 'organic' look of old-fashioned-effects, even if one can say that they look cheap. So - see it! It's definitely worth the money. And prepare for an unconventional and surprising end...  "},{"Title":"A return to the creature features","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"68 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For all it's worth I thought that Jeepers Creepers was great. A lot of people have critisized this film and just did'nt like it. The only flaw in the film was the reason for them to return to the church where they saw the mysterious man. If that would have been anyone in their right mind they would have drivin as far away as posssable. I thought that Trish should have been knocked out to awaken only to find her brother gone. The only place for her to start looking would have been the church.Other than that the film was a blast. The creature was great and one of the scariest I've seen in a while. Very imagiantive and constantly asking what the hell IS THAT? As in any horror film it is ment to be entertaining. If you watched the whole thing without hitting the eject button then you must have had some intrest in it. Victor has brought back a return to the old style creature feature films that I loved in the day and hope to see him make some more in the future. "},{"Title":"Outstanding horror film","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"65 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Every once in a while a new horror film comes along that reinvents the genre (Jaws, Halloween, The Exorcist, A Nightmare on Elm Street). These films not only prove to be entertaining, but they add something new and visionary to a market that seems to thrive mostly on rip-offs, sequels and spoofs. JEEPERS CREEPERS should be counted among them. While it doesn't maintain the level of thrills it achieves during the first 45 minutes or so, at just 90 minutes it does still manages to keep an effective level of adrenaline pumping shocks and scares and has one heck of a creepy ending to boot. The acting is first rate and the movie looks terrific. The CGI effects are thankfully kept to a minimum and its just a fun ride! There's nothing more to say. Rent it. Buy it. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Where didja get those eyes?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" How rare is it that we get a good monster movie? The 1950's were filled with monster movies that as cheesy as they were, they were also a ton of fun. Victor Salva was a fan of those movies and it shows when he wrote Jeepers Creepers, a fun horror film with a great new movie villain. Not to mention it was a nice break from all the crazy CGI films of late, this was an old fashioned make up horror movie. With two good lead actors and their silly clichés that are guilty pleasures, this was a fun road trip movie with the great creeps.Trish and her brother Darry are coming home from college. As they drive through the countryside, a mysterious driver in a rusty old delivery truck tries to run them off the road. After letting the vehicle pass them, they later see the same truck, in the distance off the side of the road, with a hulking man sliding what looks to be bodies covered with blood stained sheets, into a large pipe sticking out of the ground next to an old, abandoned church. Darry insists they go back and investigate. At the bottom of the pipe, he finds hundreds of bodies sewn together, covering the walls of a massive cavern beneath the church. They go to a restaurant and call the cops, they are phoned by a local psychic, Jezelle, who warns them that they are in terrible danger. She plays the song Jeepers Creepers on the phone, and tells them that when they hear that song, they will be in extreme danger.There may be cliché moments with why these two smart adults go back to find the dead bodies, the psychic lady who everyone think is a psycho and never listens to her, and the chase scenes are a bit predictable. But I absolutely loved this movie and the risks it took. The creeper is one of the best horror movies I have seen in a long time. His make up effects and the way he hunted down his pray was just terrifying and gross at the same time. He sniffs his victims, their items and when they have something that he wants, he won't stop until he has it.Justin Long and Gina Philips did a good job and had great chemistry. One of the things I loved about the film that instead of a cliché boyfriend/girlfriend story, they're brother and sister. Their relationship seemed genuine, the way they played off each other was perfect. My only complaint is that sometimes Gina did play the role a little dead, though I can get past it since her character seems to have a tougher edge probably from a tough break up before we meet them on the road trip. I also like that the film reminded me a little bit of Steve Spielberg's first film Duel and I wouldn't doubt that Victor got some inspiration from that film. The cars are also play a major role as a villain and what a haunting honk the creeper's truck made. I really liked Jeepers Creepers, it's scary, funny and clever and people need to lighten up because this is one of the better horror movies to come out in years.8/10 "},{"Title":"above average first half","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say, I was expecting a lot worse from this film.  The whole first half is genuinely scary.  Although the brother and sister's rivalry was played up just a bit too much, their characters were still a lot more believable than most modern scare films.  Their dialogue was especially natural, and didn't contain a single oh my god, like, did I just totally see, like, an undead demon, or is it just me? which I praise the writers for (there's only so many times Buffy the Vampire Slayer can say lines like that before I start doing a little slaying of my own).  Despite the constant squabbling the kids do, you can still warm up to them enough to feel empathic about their plight.  The cinematography was excellent, my favourite scene being the long pan up the side of the church.  The music and sound were cued perfectly and conveyed a true sense of fear, anxiety and isolation.Unfortunately, the second half of the movie really suffers.  Like so many other movies, once the killer/monster is revealed the whole thing goes down hill.  It goes from relying on X-files-like suspense to bland gore and a cliché monster suit.  Top it off with some overacting we're not taking any crap police officers and a poorly acted psychic lady and you turn what could have been a gem of a scary movie into a second rate dud.  The biggest disappointment was the end.  It was horribly tacked on in a desperate attempt at being a shocker.Other then the whole second half, the only other complaint I have is regarding the DVD.  The menus show clips from the movie which essentially run in sequence, and if you pay attention to them, they spoil just about everything.  Where they are, what the monster looks like, etc.  I haven't bothered to watch the menus all the way through but with any luck they spoil the ending too (but that's not really so bad in this case).  "},{"Title":"It`s Not Often I See A Film As Insulting As This","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"76 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  !!!!! SPOILERS !!!!! But after reading this review you won`t want to watch this crapI switched on the TV and was convinced I must be watching MARRIED WITH CHILDREN . Seriously I did , look at the character interaction between Trish and Darry , they`re supposed to be brother and sister but their dialogue seems to consist of slanging matches . In fact I was expecting the dialogue to degenerate into  Hey big sister must be a novel experience being in someone`s car with your clothes on  or  Stop whispering ` I love you ` to your hand little brother  . I don`t know if I`m reading too much into the script here but there`s something very sleazy about this sister/brother relationship , it almost has incestious overtones . Slightly disgusting and it`s not heped by the fact that Gina Philips and Justin Long play their roles in much he same manner as Christina Applegate and David Faustino played Kelly and BudHappily however this is all forgotten as the script descends into grade Z territory . Normally this would have ruined a potentially good story but if it keeps my mind away from the creepy relationship between Trish and Darry then this is possibly a good thing . Sorry I`m lying because this script insults its audience like no other movie I`ve ever seen . Let`s see now1 ) A monster demon drives around in a truck . Think about that for a moment. A big bloody monster demon drives around in a truck and no one notices . Did the monster order it through the mail ? I thought perhaps a salesman would have noticed he`s sold a truck to a monster at the showroom . And wouldn`t someone with a truck - monster or otherwise -have to stop at a gas station to get it serviced and filled with gas ? And wouldn`t have the pump attendant have noticed the customer is a monster ?2 ) If the monster can fly while holding a body why does it need a truck in the first place ?3 ) If a monster appears for a few days to go on a killing spree every 20 odd years then how come no one in the locale seems to know about this legend except for a psychic ?4 ) Dozens of bodies lie piled up in a derelict building . How come the police haven`t had any reports of missing persons ?5 ) The monster is after Darry so come the monster waits until the end of the film to snatch him when he`s had plenty of opportunity to do so before ?So you see this is a really poor script ( The directing isn`t much better by the way ) lacking in internal continuity , logic and intelligence . There are one or two scenes with potential but they have been totally ripped off from DUEL , THE TERMINATOR and the works of Clive Barker . It`s absolutely ridiculous a film like this got funding without anyone noticing the massive plot holes , just about anyone reading this page could have written a better screenplay . Even worse someone in Hollywood thought this junk deserved a sequel . No I`m not making his up , there`s going to be a JEEPERS CREEPERS 2 coming out in late Summer . Seeing as the makers of this crap treated the audience with such contempt the least we can do is to give the sequel a wide berth . If you haven`t seen the original then take my advice and don`t bother to see it because you won`t be missing anything worthwhile  "},{"Title":"Harks back to 1950's comic book horror","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers has more in common with 1950's EC horror comic books than any B Horror movies that have been made in the past twenty years.  That fact isn't bad, it's great!  There are a lot of horror plot ideas out there that have never seen decent expression.  The film has some decent surprises along the way and the pace stays interesting.  The identity of the monster stays a little mysterious.  You're not totally certain what it's supposed to be. The plot is done intelligently for a Grade B movie.  The dialog isn't stupid or contrived.  Go see or rent it.  It's worth the cash. "},{"Title":"Still a teen horror when you get down to it but one that is better than the majority of the genre","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Trish and Darry Jenner are brother and sister coming back home via the back roads for the holiday break. Their journey is uneventful until they are terrorised by 'some jerk' in a beat up old truck &#150; an event they get over until they later see the driver unloading what looks like bodies into a hole as they drive past. Escaping the ensuing chase, Darry insists they go back to see what he was doing &#150; something he deeply regrets doing when he finds mutilated and preserved bodies all over the inside of the pit. They escape the truck again but their attempts to get help lead to nothing and they find themselves battling much more than the psycho driver that they first feared.This film was overly praised on its release because it was refreshingly free of the self-awareness and irony that many modern horrors had been full of since Scream. For my money though, the lack of irony didn't mean it would be a good horror movie and, not being good with the scary stuff at the best of times I decided to give it a miss. When it came on TV, I decided to give it a go even though I'm not really a fan of the teen horror genre. However this film is actually a lot better than the normal teen horrors because, like the critics said, it isn't full of the usual clichés and so on. Instead the plot is a pretty tense and simple affair where we are only given two teens rather than a group that will slowly be picked off. The film is not terrifying but it is pretty creepy and has a good, consistent tone to it that is quite unnerving.The strength of the film is that it doesn't lose momentum when the creature is revealed; usually modern creature features lose a lot of their tension when the (usually CGI) beast is fully seen. Here we have several stages (truck/shadow/man/creepy man/beast) and they all are effective. Salva directs well and injects a good sense of tension into the film but he also knows how to frame a shot &#150; his use of darkness and the tunnel spotlight effect both being pretty effective. Of course it is still just a horror movie and is not perfect but I must admit that I was drawn into it easily early on, even if it did tend to flag a bit as it progresses.Even though it is not strictly a teen horror, we still have to put up with two rather annoying teenagers in the lead role but I suppose that is to be expected from Salva - according to the courts he has worked with minors before! In fairness to both the actors in the lead roles, they do pretty well, managing to come across real when required (as opposed to fodder filler) but also seeming genuinely afraid. Both Phillips and Long were better than I expected and did well acting as the core of the film. The creature itself is also a good presence even if it does lose a little bit of its creepiness when the wings come out.Overall this was a surprisingly enjoyable horror movie but of course it is still a teen horror of sorts so don't assume that it will be perfect &#150; it still does pretty much what you expect it to. Like the critics though, I enjoyed its lack of knowing cynicism and it did have a good sense of pace and tension even if it wasn't really 'horrifying'. Still a teen horror then, but one that is better than the norm and worth seeing if you like the genre.  "}{"Title":"good movie","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hearing mixed reviews about this movie I wasn't sure what to expect. I heard from several people that the first half was good, and that it went down hill from there. So how come an hour into the movie I found myself really enjoying it? The story was actually going good, it also was actually scary, scary like Halloween, not Scream. Which is a good change. Remember don't listen to what other people say, if you like scary movies, and no not to take them seriously go see this, it's worth the money. "},{"Title":"Mindless horror flick has some scary moments...","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JUSTIN LONG and GINA PHILIPS are brother and sister returning home for spring break when they run into road rage and a monster who comes out of hiding after long hibernation to kill humans for body parts that keep him thriving.It's a fairly suspenseful horror flick with the leads making the usual mistakes so that they can come into contact with the flesh eating monster who clearly is after one of them for a purpose not revealed until the end.Long is amusing as the brother who has some good lines to say to his irritating sister as they squabble over how to approach the idea of hunting down a monster. His facial expression is mainly one of shock at finding dead bodies at the bottom of a barrel-shaped pipe and he keeps up the shocked look throughout most of the film.There are some genuinely scary moments and a lot of silliness in the plotting which is pretty par for the course in these kind of thrillers. At least there's one saving grace the director doesn't use the shaky camera movement or fast cutting to get his effects. He doesn't have to. The tale is chilling enough. "},{"Title":"If you want something scary and creepy, this movie is the thing you are looking for.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is one of the better horror movies I've seen lately. Especially the first half hour has some scary moments. What I didn't like too much about the movie was the fact that they were screaming and yelling all the time, it really started to annoy me. The same for the car and its gearbox. Come on, when they are just driving along, nothing is wrong with it, only when they have to be fast the thing is squealing harder than a pig that is being butchered. The makers have to choose or the thing never works well, or it always works well. Now it lost all its credibility.But so far for the things that I didn't like. What I did like was the story A young woman and her brother are on their way home for school break, but a mysterious driver forces them off the road. Later on they see the driver again, dumping a body at an abandoned church. The driver sees they have spotted him and he goes after them. But the driver isn't just an ordinary psycho or a madman, it's a demon that has to feed on humans every 23 years during 23 days... If you want something scary and creepy, this movie is the thing you are looking for. People who don't like blood, dead bodies, heads being chopped off... better choose something else to watch. I liked it and I would have given it a very high score if it hadn't annoyed me a little too often. Now I give it a 6/10, which is still not bad. "},{"Title":"Finally&#x85;A Satisfying Horror Flick","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" B- Finally, an horror movie that doesn't fail like the usual ones. It's not exactly a slasher flick, and I assume more of a return to creature feature type flicks. Good, frankly, I needed a break from the masked, kitchen-knife wielding, stalker psycho. Now that's not to say it's the best horror film, far from it, but an entertaining one. There's still that horror-movie logic from time to time, like actually trying to sneak into a possible serial killer's body dumping site. You would think they would've of kept going and never come back, like I know sure as hell I would have. But overall the film is a breath of fresh air to me, considering the terrors of I Know What You Did Last Summer and so on.Victor Salva brings a different feel to this film then what we normally see, which is a teenage blond or brunette screaming at the top of her lungs while running at a moderate speed. The atmosphere of dread he sets up is great. Most of the cast is rather secondary, if important at all, but that's just fine with me, because Gina Phillips and Justin Long portray genuine terror and it just really shows that is an above average horror movie. The first few times I saw it I was pretty damn scared, so the film accomplished what it set out to do. "},{"Title":"B movie classic","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The film starts of as others have said, keen on generating tension, uncertainty and foreboding. The initial minutes take elements from other a number of road movies. The key strength of the movie is the Creeper himself.The creation; The Creeper is unlike many horror creations - he/it is actually scary. Compare the Creeper to Jason, Freddie, the wishmaster etc etc - No contest. Is he a demon, a devil or a fallen angel ?Every 23 years he feasts for 23 days, and takes the parts of his victims he wants. The movie is low budget, and the effects on occasion do suffer, but considering the budget it packs as many thrills as any horror I have seem for a number of years. A modern day B Movie classic.10/10  "},{"Title":"impressive, creative and taken way to seriously","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a good movie. I read people saying it was stupid for them to go back to the church. But if they didn't what could the movie have been about?! Dumb choices always happen in horror movies, but when these two teens make a dumb decision it's waaayyyy to unrealistic. Let's stop trying to make sense of a movie that has a flying demon that can only eat someone if he scare them and just marvel at the creativity of it. If they didn't go back to the church and went to the next town for help instead the Creeper wouldn't be after them and there wouldn't be a movie in the first place. That's what the movie is about a brother and his sister being chase by a monster so he can eat one of them. And Jeepers Creepers has an ending in which the bad guy gets away with it, that's a very risky move but those are some of the best endings. "},{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If a film strikes me as being terrible, I ignore it and don't dwell it. Onto the next thing.However, this particular movie is the single one that stuck as being just plain wrong. I apologise if this review seems unfairly biased against the movie, but this is one case where I wish I'd rented another film. Any other film. The two main characters don't 'gel', with each other or the other characters - It's almost like every other character in the film was an afterthought. The pesky kids were the almost complete focus of the film, yet they say nothing interesting, don't really seem any more brother and sister than 'two young actors in a car' and wouldn't justify a 20-minute short, let alone a feature-length picture. The scares were silly, the entire film feels like a shell which should have had some life breathed into it. Even the vaunted 'veering truck' near the beginning was played out in a way which jarred. Seriously, that's entertaining? Well, wait till you discover watching dry paint.. The creature itself.. I'm sorry, it seemed like a basic outline of a few factors which someone had drawn a character design for, then it was chucked into the film. It was on some drawing board rather than a living, breathing part of the film.Even in the most weird horror setting, you should be able to at least put yourself in the victims' shoes. I couldn't. I had no empathy for the characters at all, I wished to god the monster had run them through and had done with it.The monster's apparent invulnerability was extremely irritating. As was its apparent ability to be everywhere at once. If you can't destroy it, then you have to outrun it. If you can't outrun it, you're dead. The dull duo obviously couldn't defeat or outrun it, so why did the rest of the movie happen? Please, for the love of all things holy, take their heads off! I forced myself to sit through the entirety, but I already had that nagging Do something else feeling half way through. The ending was both an annoyance and a welcome release.To me this lacked any kind of balance, had no single good component to hang the rest on. It fell flat. I felt ridiculous for wasting my time on it. Renting both this tripe and the atrocious Dominator at the same time put me off watching new movies for a while, unless Scream and other teenie-bopper wannabe horrors are films you really enjoyed, stay WELL clear of this gobbler. "},{"Title":"awesome, awesome, awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i love this film so much as this was my first horror movie that i watched when i was young. this is a film you can re-watch a million times and never get bored! it is the whole package, horror, thriller, jumps, drama and love..... this film is legendary and will never be forgotten! cannot wait till jeepers creepers 3 -) the character jeepers creepers is very unique and loved in the horror movie business. i wish they could do a jeepers creepers marathon at the cinema because its even better on the big screen...... my favourite bits of the film is the car chases and the tube adventure! that is when people start to get scared and get in to the film!! this is definitely my favourite film...!!!! "},{"Title":"BEatngU","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie...Oh My Gosh...This movie is the BEST horror movie of 2001! At first , while watching it , this movie reminded me of a lot of different horror movies - but in all actuality - it was not like any other ever. I jumped right out of my seat! This is the first flick that has actually scared me in a long time and thats a lot. The only part I didnt like - which also says a whole lot , was the end. It was ok , but I was disappointed and sad about it. Now I cant wait to see part2!!!! PEACE  "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Ive Seen In A While","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers Is by far the scariest,exciting,edge of your seat thriller Ive seen since A Nightmare On Elm Street. This movie is THE BEST. I cant believe the people that said this movie sucked. This is what this movie is about. Two college students Justin Long and Gina Philiphs are on their way to vacition when they see a person dumping bodies down a pipe. Just like any other horror movie they have to see whats he was dumping in the pipe. Now their running for their lives. I give this 10 stars. "}{"Title":"jeepy creepy","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow, this movie was scary.  Expecially when Darry fell down the tube(well his sister leg go of his feet because rats were coming out and he slid down) and he found all those bodies.  One which was still alive but almost dead.  I nearly jumped out of my seat. The very end where they hear Darry scream and then they showed you what happened to him. Whew I sure hope that never happens to me. I'm surprised most of the people gave this movie a 1.  I gave this movie a 10 for making me jump. Good job. I  love horror movies. "},{"Title":"Tense","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I watched this the first time quite a few years ago, it seemed like it would be a one-off. Now they plan the 3rd one, which is going to come out in 2011. Good or bad, the same director will be at helm, who claimed back then, that he wanted to make sure, that there wouldn't be any sequels. He had it all planned out (a story element would make this impossible to happen).But I'm not going into detail about that, because I thought the movie was genuinely scary and creepy. I have to admit, that I wasn't aware of an obvious reference, that the title might have suggested. If you know it, it won't hit you as hard as myself, when it gets revealed at the end. But still, if you can go through the beginning and bear with it, when it gets pretty action-y towards the end, then you will enjoy it. I know I did. But I can understand, that some people did expect different things from it. I can only speak for myself and say that I liked the fact, that this was made the way it was. It dares to be different and does not give you a bunch of teenagers being hunt down by one guy ... Not to mention, that all this has a very cool conclusion (the main idea if you wanna call it that) in the end. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not all that","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"32 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found parts of this movie, mainly the beginning to be very promising. I really thought that it was going to be an 'on the edge of your seat' horror film and the opening had all the tension and weirdness that one needs to set that kind of atmosphere.  But as the movie progressed, even though it never sunk to being bad or even mediocre (no Friday the 13th B.S. here), I think it became a little bit of a disappointment because it didn't live up to the promise that it made in the beginning.  And although I like to let my mind fill in the blanks, there was a lot that went unexplained that made it so that I wasn't really satisfied by the time it finished.  I didn't recognize the names of the actors or the director, and they were neither here nor there for me - that's not to say that I thought the performances were bad, they definitely were fitting and on the mark for the genre.  It's just that they didn't really stick out for me.All of the above being said, if the movie was on cable on a cold winter night, I'd probably relent and watch it again - it's certainly better than most in it's category, but would I recommend it as a 'great' film?  No, probably not. "},{"Title":"Above average modern fright flick.","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Writer / director Victor Salva did his part in keeping the monster movie alive with this respectable effort. It's got enough ambiance, suspense, and general all around creepiness going for it to make it worth a viewing for genre fans.A brother and sister named Darry and Trish (Justin Long and Gina Philips) are driving home during Spring Break and are taking the long, scenic route through the country. Unfortunately, they soon begin to be victimized - over and over and over again - by a mysterious entity that simply won't go away, and has been doing some nasty things to various human victims for a long time.Now, granted, some fans can - and do - take issue with the way some of the movie is scripted - but God knows horror movies have had plenty of instances of dumb characters doing dumb things over the years and what goes on in this movie is far from unique. Also, it's true enough that this movie works best in its first half, when Salva is stressing a mystery element, and we don't know just who or what is stalking these kids. Once the nature of the monster is revealed, it is hard for the movie to not start falling into the clichés of the genre. For one thing, this monster just keeps coming and coming no matter what is done to it.Still, one has to love some of the odder, WTF moments in Jeepers Creepers - including a tongue being pulled out of a severed head - and appreciate the horrific imagery of one of the movie's major set pieces, when Darry is investigating the monster's lair where it has been arranging dead bodies in what he describes as a psycho version of the Sistine Chapel. The monster design by Brian Penikas is effective once we see it, even if it's not terribly imaginative. The rural location work is excellent, the atmosphere is strong, the music by Bennett Salvay is good, and there's a steadily building amount of tension throughout the whole thing. Salva does have this thing hit the ground running, as the first major scares & action scenes occur within the first five minutes.The acting is pretty good; Philips and Long are likable and make a pretty convincing pair of siblings, Jonathan Breck is suitably spooky as the monster (and also has a small secondary role as a cop in the police station), Eileen Brennan contributes a memorable turn as a stereotypically nutty cat lover, and Patricia Belcher is fine as our exposition provider, a psychic lady whose head just happens to be filled with details on how the monster operates. Some viewers take issue with the presence of the character, but she didn't really bother me, personally. One element that becomes a character in its own right is the ugly, demonic truck that the Creeper drives; that thing is pretty bad ass.All things being considered, this is a good if not great movie whose concept at least has shown some durability; one sequel came along two years later and fans are hoping that a proposed third movie sees the light of day.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great monster movie","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. And I feel most reviewers are short-changing this film by lumping it in with other lesser movies as a teen slasher flick.This was my take on it- There were some serious jumps (at least for me and others in theater) and definitely some creepy pit of your stomach tension. This I felt was achieved by the director not showing a lot and letting the audience figure some things out for itself (or have their own theories about this thing and its origins). Also, I felt the reactions of the characters to what they are witnessing was realistic-as opposed to what people usually do in movies today.If you are looking for a lazy movie-going-experience where everything is explained and wrapped in a nice pretty package in 90 minutes-this is not your movie.On the other hand if you are willing to suspend belief and watch a fun, scary, interesting, surprising monster movie where you may have to come to your own conclusions about some plot points -I would recommend this movie to you. "},{"Title":"ABYSMAL","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an unforgivably poor addition to the horror stable, and I'm stupefied that it has enjoyed such commercial success.  Granted, a judicious, omnipresent marketing campaign successfully duped a lot of punters, myself included, but does bad word-of-mouth count for nothing these days?  How is it that this unsightly, over-hyped juggernaut continues to bulldoze its way through the high-street stores, commanding premium shelf-space?  I noticed a few other dissenting voices on these pages, but I feel we may be too few and too late in our mission to prevent this rubbish raking in further undeserved millions.The movie begins with an inspirational ten or so minutes of tension-building, and promptly commits narrative suicide.  Jettison mystery and suspense, replace with comically illogical character behaviour.  Good move.  Hint at an unseen, unspeakable evil, then promptly substitute with the most ill-conceived, laughable creature in a rubber mask.  An even better move.  Trade all subtlety for trashy, in your face clichés.  Sprinkle liberally with an utterly stupid, gimmicky plot device involving the film's title.  What genius.It's precisely because JEEPERS CREEPERS hints at greatness in a fleeting, opening salvo, only to undergo a bewildering change of direction, that it deserves all this vilification.  It shouldn't have happened like this.  And you shouldn't have to watch it.  There are so many other horror movies out there more deserving of your time, and that includes a myriad straight-to-video-hell numbers wallowing at the bottom of your local store's bargain bucket.  "},{"Title":"Unique and creative with some flaws...more than I can say for most horror films now...","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sitting down in a theater in 2001, I assumed this would be another crappy teen horror film with useless sex scenes and cheesy unrealistic plot points (I reviewed movies at the time for my community). However, I was pleasantly surprised.First off, I think we all know now that director Victor Silva is a convicted child molester. While that is without a doubt awful, he does a great job directing this film. His criminal background shouldn't effect the film he made. I'm not supporting him at all, but I did like this movie.Anyways, the movie starts off extremely chilling and terrifying. The first 15 minutes of this movie will send a chill down your spine. However, once the kids go into the house, the film slowly starts to descend at a slow but sure rate. By the end of the flick, the film is very 'meh', but maybe that's because the film couldn't live up to the beginning. The Creeper, the villain of this horror film, is easily one of the most terrifying villains of horror in a long time. The way he looks, what he wears, his truck, what he does. All of it is horrifying. I proudly tilt my hat to whoever did the makeup design. However, the twist at the end, while definitely unique, kind of takes away from the seriousness the film had. It looked good in Vilva's head and on the storyboards, but when it transferred to screen, it just isn't subtle. As I said, the first third of the film is great. The second third isn't as good, but still manages to keep up the thrills. The climax in the police station is sadly quite boring and loses all the tension the film was building up (despite that the scene involves a massive shootout), but its the VERY ending, the last 2 minutes of the movie that satisfy me. The film in general has a very dark, subtle, and eerie feeling that you just don't see in horror films nowadays. The camera angles are very Evil Dead-esque at times and really add an evil tension to the film.Overall, this is a nicely made horror film with some flaws here and there. If you can get past the directors terrible criminal background, then check out this film. However, I don't recommend the sequel. "},{"Title":"I don't know how it could've been any worse","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I rented Jeepers Creepers not knowing what to expect. I hadn't heard anything good or bad, and went in with an open mind.That being said, this was one of the worst modern movies I've EVER seen. Horrible. I absolutely hated it.First, the main characters seem to be complete idiots. They always do the exact opposite of the logical thing to do. You'd be amazed at the incredibly stupid choices that they make one after the other. Second, the main villain is a stupid big IL' demon-like thing. Not even believable.And, the icing on the cake is the ending. I don't want to spoil the stupidity, but it seems like they wrote the stupid Jeepers Creepers song and thought they were real clever and then wrote the movie around the lyrics. At no part was the movie really scary. Perhaps some may be scared (a little) near the beginning, but as the movie progresses it just gets worse and worse until you just laugh at how stupid it is.A one word summary for the film is PATHETIC. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers Steals Plot and Camera Shots from Unsolved Mysteries","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not only is the plot similar to the Unsolved Mystery episode about Dennis DePuy(sp?) the opening scenes of the brother and sister in the car witnesses the Creep dropping off the body, then going back to investigate it and being chased my the Creep in his vehicle is stolen almost scene by scene. Even the camera shots are identical. After the scenes that Jeepers Creepers stole from Unsolved Mysteries the movie goes tragically downhill. It has confusing and non consistent plots. Its almost like whoever wrote the movie, made it up as they shot it. It had the potential to be a good horror film but just ended up being laughable. Yet, I saw the Unsolved Mysteries episode yesterday 5/5/2011 and couldn't believe my eyes. I actually wished I had turned on the DVR to show people the theft! It was blatant. A lot of movies are remakes of other movies without sometimes mentioning that they are indeed remakes (Million Dollar Baby/Million Dollar Mermaid, The Good Son/The Bad Seed, Scarface (w/Pacino)/Scarface w/Muni, The Last Man on Earth/I Am Legend). But this movie actually stole scene by scene from a reality murder/mystery show. Not many people know this. "},{"Title":"Poo","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Every now and again you watch a film that seems to be good and then it goes down the toilet, Jeepers Creepers is one of these films. The first 15-20 minutes actually suggest that their could be a half decent movie hiding in your DVD player, but no..... unfortunately this is as good as it gets. The script writers obviously thought of a decent start and then couldn't think of where to go next so they decide to bring in a flying creature which causes havoc every 20 years or so.I personally think the only scary films are ones that have a slight possibility of happening and that if possible you should never see what is scaring everyone. This film starts off quite well and the suspense starts to build, only for you to find out a monster is at the root of it, none of the residents seem surprised this monster comes back every few years either. I think if i lived where it is set id be slightly concerned by the occasional visits of the flying beast.To sum up, this had a good start and then the director takes it down the wrong route, id rather have the bubonic plague then watch this again. 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"What idiot told me this was a slick and stylish film?","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While films of this genre tend not to interest me enough to actively seek them out, I had a renewed interest in seeing Jeepers Creepers based on the hype given to its recently released sequel.  *Possible Spoiler Alert*A mistake, to put it mildly.  Whoever said this film was a stylish and fairly intelligent film needs to suffer the same fate as the cop halfway through this movie.  The story itself, about `The Creeper' who resurfaces every couple of decades to feast on and stockpile human organs to keep himself alive is not inherently bad.  The irritating behavior and complete stupidity of the main actors however, is reprehensible.  The actors who portrayed the brother and sister (our `protagonists' ladies and gentlemen) are just begging to be devoured.  Or maybe that was just my wish throughout the film.  Eileen Brennan (Is it possible to age 90 years in a 30 year period?  What *happened* to this woman?) is wheeled out for a pointless five minute scene as a `crazy cat lady' which only served as further proof that this movie is asinine tripe.  Since I try to find at least one thing that is positive about any given film, the best I can come up with after a marathon brainstorm is that the last five minutes of the film was actually satisfying.  It is how the film *should* have ended and admittedly, it is a rarity when films end in a logical manner.Unless you are a die hard `horror' film fan, don't even bother with this one.  I'm irritated with myself for having invested both the time considering whether I wanted to see this film and the viewing of the film itself.  One helpful hint though If you are watching this film with friends, and you should if you like to give the Mystery Science Theater 3000 treatment to horrible films, a symphony of fart sounds performed in a three part harmony makes for a good underlying soundtrack as an accompaniment to this film that stinks more than the real thing.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Nah","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Movie had a great beginning,was average in the middle but had an extremely unsatisfying ending doesn't felt like it would have been really over . That happens way too often in Horror Movies like that when the movie focuses on jump scares and don't know how to end the movie. Ptah nobody will notice. But with an better ending this movie would have been above average ) Actors and effects were good but not so special. After all maybe a good movie for Halloween or a lazy film evening with best friends. Especially the actor Justin Long is very great in his role i only knew him as an actor in comedy or sitcoms so it was surprising to see his good work in this movie. and i have to say this movie knows about it's mistakes "},{"Title":"IMDb rating far too low -- has the elusive fun factor","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Simply one of the best horror outings ever. Why? Glad you asked! Unless you really like Torture Porn, or violence for the sake of violence, or shock for the sake of shock, you will find that the best horror films develop character first, horror second. Look at Exorcist, Poltergeist, Shining, The Ring -- about people or families or relationships first. Here we have the (it seems) debut of Justin Long along with a breakout performance by Gina Phillips (who never really got the traction from this role she deserved) as brother and sister. That is the connection most horror films lack, that is the missing fun factor in the competition. These guys pretty much set the bar for what happens when a functional sibling relationship becomes dysfunctional after messing with the wrong ghoul. The visit to the psychic 3/4 the way through is a nice touch also. PS -- the sequels are wretched and awful, but you already knew that, didn't you? "},{"Title":"'Jeepers Creepers' (2001)","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Regardless of what others, or everyone, might think of director Victor Salva, setting him aside (because I could care less about his personal life) to strictly deal with the film, there are many unconventional moments in the beginning of 'Jeepers Creepers' to let you know that you are in for something tasty. The dialogue is standard fare and as the story progresses, you can see where it might be able to come off as a little predictable, but our cast mainly consists of Gina Phillips and Justin Long for the majority of the film, and of course Jonathan Breck as our villain. This is probably the first and foremost convention in the film that sets 'Jeepers Creepers' apart from the rest. It comes off as sort of cliché to try and make our characters self-aware nowadays, but when 'Jeepers Creepers' was first released in 2001, I think it probably worked better than it does now, eleven years later, when the whole idea of having self-aware characters has been done to death a hundred times.So now, regardless of our cliché self-aware dialogue, and ignoring some of the more prominently stupid actions of our protagonists, the script definitely gets points for originality, the back-story is pretty well-developed, and the opening half hour is definitely one of the strongest openings in any recent horror film to date. I know a lot of people don't enjoy it, perhaps because it is too unconventional and the story seems like it drags towards the end, but I suppose if you've never seen the film before, you should do so immediately. The lackluster sequel that followed gets trampled into the ground by a barrage of main characters and an even more intense horde of trying-to-be-self-aware dialogue, but I am definitely a fan of the series and I personally can't wait for Salva to release the third film. The third film will probably suck, but that is only because I have high expectations as of this writing. Personally, I would be hoping for a prequel, that could discuss the origins of the Creeper further, but that's just me.JEEPERS CREEPERS -----7/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Highway Horror Movie","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are times when I look at good movies on IMDb and then shocked when I see such low scores. This is one of those films. I feel this movie should at least have a 7.0. The film opens with a brother and sister driving home from college for spring break and like any brother and sister, quarrel over license plates and life. Peaceful enough, right? Then out of the blue, an old beat up truck with a loud horn comes up behind them and starts playing chicken with them. After a few terrifying seconds, the truck passes them and leaves them in the wind. Then, when they are driving past an old beat up church they see the truck and a strange man dumping what appears to be bodies down a pipe and while they look at him he looks back at them. We later learn that the man is no man at all, but a horrible monster that feasts on the flesh of others every 23 years for 23 days. This is one of those films that reminds me of Duel in the sense that someone is being chased by an evil and powerful force on an isolated highway and no one is around to help them. Sure, the film takes some liberties, but it's a movie people. The trick is to make the film entertaining so that no one will care. This film certainly does this. All in all, if you're looking for a good highway horror film, check out Jeepers Creepers. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and downbeat","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Its been a while since I took in Jeepers Creepers and I must say time has been kind to the film. First of all it is refreshing to see a brother and sister relationship instead of usual boyfriend/girlfriend territory. Its a dynamic that I think has a heavier impact in the closing stages. Gina Phillips and Justin Long are both very good in their roles, and for a movie to be carried by these 2 actors, they do very well. I always remember feeling disappointed with the creeper itself, but in the cgi heavy days we are in now its just nice to see a dude in a suit. The genius in the movie is that you don't really get to see the creeper properly during the film and only clearly at the end, also it does not explain what the creeper is. The film starts as the siblings are travelling home to see their mother who they are worried about, bickering, playing games as brother and sister do. They are then nearly run off the road by a black van. Later down the same road they see the van parked up and a man in black stuffing what looks to be bodies down a drain. After being chased and run off the road again, the duo go back to the drain and find a stack of bodies and proceed to tell the police. The Creeper now having picked them out is now on their tail and it is basically a chase movie afterwards. There is a sense of dread during the whole movie. As the movie goes on they meet a psychic woman who predicts something terrible happening to one of them and how that person will be screaming in the dark. This adds to the feeling already that something bad is going to happen. When the movie finishes it is very down beat and disturbing. I am quite surprised at how much I enjoyed Jeepers Creepers and I think as a creature feature it is entertaining, creepy a little sick at times and has the sucker punch ending that earns its place in horror history. "},{"Title":"Do something!","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of those annoying horror movies that look pretty good in their first fifteen minutes, but then inevitably sink like a brick. The opening scenes are in fact genuinely creepy, but after this promising intro, there really isn't any reason to watch the movie anymore. You've seen all the interesting stuff there was to see, only you don't know that yet. The mythical villain is then shown and explained way too soon, and his special effects just get really old really fast. It's not that they're bad, well maybe it is that they're bad, I don't know, I just get sick of them almost instantly. So it can fly really fast, I get it. The plot is really going everywhere, but nowhere good, and you just feel the director get lazier as this movie progresses. Gina Phillips is pretty nice to look at, that's all I've got. "},{"Title":"I don't like scary movies. Luckily, this isn't a scary movie.","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't like the scary/horror genre. I'm not a fan of being scared. I was intrigued by the opening of this film when I first started watching it on cable the other night. Yes, I was sucked in initially, but the movie actually got LESS scary and creepy as it goes on. Yes, less scary. Totally lame ending. If the monster kills off practically everybody he comes across, with the ability to almost instantly find/attack his victims, why does he need to continually chase these two? Oh yeah, because then there'd be no movie. In the end of the movie, after instantly removing every body part it wants from every other victim in the movie, the monster feels it necessary to fly away with one of the main characters. The reason? Apparently to set up the lame final scene.A waste of time. Predictable except for the very beginning. Not scary. "},{"Title":"OK, so unscary and dumb","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well where should i start. Firstly i would like to say that i really disliked this movie and i think that its on of the worst movies around. The storyline had no point.OK so the film started and i was quite excited to see it.The whole beginning part seemed interesting so i thought that i would like the movie. And then all of a sudden this creature comes up and starts ripping everyones toungs and eyeballs out.I don't get the point, this movie had no solid story and it was rather uneventful with nothing to get excited about. If you want a good scary movie you can rely on something like Scream,Halloween or A nightmare on Elm Street. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie listed on it's posters as the stylish horror of the new millenium.  This was definitely one of my worst films of all time.  There seemed to be an underlying element of surprise as what was going to happen and to which character it was going to happen to, not so.  The storyline was predictable and dull. All the characters in this movie were dumber than a sack full of hammers and the end was no surprise.  The one redeeming feature was the monster's house of pain.  It had a nice eerie feel to it, but again after some brief glimpses, nothing.  If I had to give this movie a rating it would be A waste of my time.N.B. I certainly hope the sequel to this movie is set 23 years in the future, because apparently the creeper only hunts every 23rd Spring for 23 days. I'll bet you that it isn't!! "}{"Title":"Where'd you get THOSE eyes?","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What feels like typical Hollywood fare grows into its own with a different execution. JEEPERS CREEPERS is a sadistic story and deserves credit for sticking to a more 70s style of horror-telling than the flash and formulaic boredom of some 80s and 90s movies. Quite honestly, this demon of JEEPERS CREEPERS should stick around.Brother and sister are heading home to their parents. A truck tailgates and eventually forces them off the road. They decide to investigate a church where earlier they saw the driver of the truck dump bodies down a pipe. What they find will change their life.JEEPERS tries to be serious, yet it fails horribly. There are many humorous parts and some may question the wisdom of the characters (especially the cops). Sadly, JEEPERS is not scary either. We cannot identify with Darry or Trish. With the way JEEPERS is played out, the ending should be predictable. A mediocre movie with a great villain, JEEPERS CREEPERS should have been worked on harder. "},{"Title":"I feel violated","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers makes Battlefield Earth look like an Oscar contender, and will forever be the bar by which i judge awful movies.  This piece of trash sets a new standard for bottom-of-the-barrel entertainment.  From the mind-numbing beginning to the intelligence-insulting ending, it's an exercise in formulaic, hackneyed writing, the worst horror movie cliches imaginable, laughable special effects, poor acting, and high-school-quality cinematography.  A plot?  Don't bother asking.This movie left me feeling used.  Not only do i want my money back, i want my time back.  Please, for the love of all that's holy, do yourself a favor and don't waste your money (or, more precious, time).  "},{"Title":"Fear takes a road trip","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So, in my humble opinion, the film didn't have potential at all. When I first took a peek at it, the first film that came to mind was just about every other clichéd horror film produced nowadays. In fact, the description terrible came to mind, almost setting up a review by itself. Nevertheless, I saw the film lurking around Netflix's instant streams and gave in, expecting nothing but another movie...Well, there's not much more for say, the movie was just as I had expected beforehand. The acting was just horrible. I actually find Justin Long as a decent actor. He's not great, but he's not bad either. He just walks through the movie, seamlessly doing so with nothing but the intention to move on to another movie. The plot was contrived, as expected. The film has no tension throughout and I swear I liked the talking scenes more than the 'terror' scenes. It was just another gimmick for something new and original, but did what every film has done before. And surely I've heard of a masked killer before? It's been done before, why even try to brand it as something new and original? It's not anything new or exciting and everything was just so low-key your going to cheering for the ending rather than more of it.So there's not much more to say. I recommend if there's nothing else to do. The only thing that'll make this movie good is if you either play the drinking game or if you want to just have some fun with friends but having no idea what's going on in the screen. Problem is, there really isn't much going on in the first place. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Great Creature Effects and Story!","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This 2001 horror movie starring Justin Long, in one of his first roles, is a real gem that deserves some attention. Jeepers was directed by Victor Salva, who also directed the 2003 sequel, shows a good eye for tension and horror. This film got financial backing from famed Godfather director Francis Ford Coppola's company American Zoetrope.Darry (Long) and Trish (Gina Phillips) are brother and sister driving home from college on spring break. They have great chemistry and work really well off each other. Driving a classic car though the heartland of America they argue like any brother and sister would. After a bathroom break, an older rusted out truck drives up on them like a bat out of hell, blasting its horn and tailgating. After getting passed they wind up seeing the truck further down the road. There is man dumping something that looks like a body wrapped in a sheet down a sewer pipe. They are spotted by the man and are eventually run off the road.Darry and Trish go back to the pipe to investigate and make sure that nobody is still alive. At times this movie can be self referential, in that the characters know they are in a horror movie and try to outsmart the basic stereotypes of the genre. Scream from 1996 was the movie that set the standard for this. After hearing voices, Darry fall down the pipe to find the grotesque lair of The Creeper. The lair is the basement of an old abandon church. Darry emerges from the lair and they drive off to get help at a local café. They don't find much help except from a psychic that mysteriously calls them on a pay phone. The whole plot of the movie is kind of cheesy and unbelievable, but the characters really save this movie and make it into a surprise hit.As explained by the psychic, every 23rd spring for 23 days the Creeper feeds. It sniffs out certain people and eats particular organs that its body absorbs and becomes apart of him. The Creeper reveals that he has bat like wings, and upon close inspection he looks a bit like a meaner version of the Creature from the Black Lagoon. As I mentioned in the last review cops are really not much help when it comes to these kinds of movies. There is a big final battle at the police station where the Creeper takes over. I won't reveal the ending but it is a little different that what I expected. "},{"Title":"Waste of time and effort","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is rare of me to hate a film this much but in this case it is very necessary. Once upon a time i purchased this film with 12 CD's free for £10 at Britans biggest DVD, VHS and CD retail shop HMV back in 2002. I had never seen it before but the media gave it a good review so I got it oblivious to its contents. If i could give you one word to sum up this film, that word would be terrible! And hears why. The shots are too long, turn off the lights to make it scarier and you would still be falling asleep, the beast couldn't scare my four year old cousin, the car used is constantly stalling, the beast takes too long to simply kill the victims, the theme song is annoying and finally there is no hype to any dramatic scenes. Seriously if anyone reads this then my advice to you is do not purchase this film if you are curious about it. This film is bad, no wait, it's terrible! "},{"Title":"Watch The First Half Hour...Then Turn It Off","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JEEPERS CREEPERS pretty much blows. It starts of pretty decent, has a kinda DUEL feeling to it early on. It's like this 2 kids traveling on some relatively deserted roads see somebody dump something down a well-like structure. Of course these jackasses decide to check it out, and find some things that they probably didn't want to find - and up to this point the film works pretty well. Once you start getting some background on the Creeper the whole thing just goes to hell. A couple of decent scenes, but the Creeper creature looks like some sort of bat/Predator kinda thing that just doesn't work for me. I have a really hard time with monster horror films nowdays anyway, so I guess I should have avoided this one in the first place - but I kept hearing it was really good and broke down and rented it. Not the worst thing I've ever seen, but I wouldn't bother again - and what the hell does that stupid song have to do with anything? - 4/10 for a couple of decent scenes... "},{"Title":"Now this is an odd movie","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I immediately liked it when I saw the first scene. On some country road that could just about anywhere in America, a car approaches. As it comes closer, you begin to hear dialog between the siblings (as in the rest of the movie, most of it just babbling, some of it quite funny). The scene takes exactly 55 seconds. That's a slow pace, and the movie mostly sticks to that. I really enjoyed that, how many movies dare to be really, really slow these days? In one scene, Trisha looks up into the sky and the camera slowly rises so we look down on her. The fact that she's doing that is pretty gratuitous, but the scene itself, just the way it's done - a pleasure to behold.So Mr. Salva shows off some style here. Minimalist and well done.I also found the acting pretty decent. Unfortunately, that's about the only qualities this movie has. The story is supremely simple, and after a promising introduction, it collapses rapidly. The teens alternatingly try to hunt down or escape from the killer, accompanied by clueless cops and a Matrix oracle replica who Just Can't Stop Talking.The down slide continues until the very end, with a final scene that neither makes much sense nor managed to captivate me in any way (won't spoil it here). I suppose it could have been dramatic had I had any clue why the people on screen did what they did.That's what's so odd about this movie its unbalancedness. A lot of good workmanship thrown at an utterly ridiculous story.When you go rent it, print out this review and talk the clerk into halving the price because you're only going to watch the first 45 minutes. "},{"Title":"BAD BAD BAD","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm wondering if the people that gave this movie a good review were watching the same film. This movie was not scary, it was not very gory, and it was pretty damn stupid.The scriptwriter spent about 45 minutes writing the script, realized it was a dumb idea, and threw it away. Victor Salva (I don't care if I get his name right) fished it out of the trash and TRIED to make it into a movie.Don't get me wrong, I've watched all of the classic horror films. The main characters are just too stupid to be believable, ESPECIALLY by the old classics. This movie DOES NOT REMIND ME OF THE OLD SCHOOL classics, it reminds of some new school poop.Down to the movies itself. Dialogue Attrocious, examples Don't try and be a hero!  Plot Undeveloped, example This crazy beast killer thingy terrorizes a town, we are left with several questions 1. Now what? 2. Where's the back story? 3. 75% of the budget of this film was used to buy alcohol for the cast, crew, and critics who said it was a good film.RENT THIS MOVIE ONLY TO MAKE FUN OF IT, AND LEARN THAT CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT SHOULD NOT TAKE THE ENTIRE LENGTH OF THE FILM, ONLY THE FIRST 20 MINUTES "},{"Title":"Unscary X-Files derivative, yawn!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'The best American Horror Film in 10 years' screamed the front cover of the VHS tape box. Why? Was this quote intended for another film, but somehow slipped onto this one? Or perhaps, somehow, the word 'worst' was mistyped 'best'? Ten minutes in I was wondering if, perhaps, this was actually going to be a scary film, but then the plot took a series of unexpected turns that were only unexpected because we all thought directors tried to be a little bit original in horror films these days. Forget the post modern self parody of Scream, in fact, forget any horror movie you have ever seen because that is the only way you will be able to see this film as anything other than a ham-fisted attempt at making a run-of-the-mill teen horror flick. Most episodes of the X-Files (which this film blatantly rips-off) are scarier. So, in conclusion, this film was rubbish, absolute rubbish, in fact I promise you all now that I am never going to watch another film with the name Victor Salva associated with it in any way ever again.  "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film started off okay, but it got bad very quickly. The rusty truck and the dark figure in the hat and coat were pretty ominous, but once he was revealed to be a silly monster, the whole movie became laughable. And the two leads were horrible actors given a horrible script. The male decided to channel early Keanu Reeves with the dumb-founded expressions continually across his face. And it was frustrating seeing the two of them continually do illogical things in the face of trouble. The rest of the movie was filled with bad horror cliches. I've just about had it with horror movies taking seemingly innocuous things (the song Jeepers Creepers) and trying to make them spooky. And the ending? Well, it's pretty obvious that the makers of this film didn't feel like trying to think of a way to wrap it up, so they just summarily ended it at the 90 minute mark. I don't expect horror movies to be masterpieces, but they should be entertaining, which this is not. "}{"Title":"THE SCARIEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie makes Halloween look lik a Jim Carrey movie although i am a big fan of Jamie Lee Curtis and John Carpenter Jeepers Creepers is TERRIFYING!!!!!The scariest movie i have seen in a long time its not a teen slasher or the other kind its a monster movie ur heart is in ur month throught   ALL 90 min of it "},{"Title":"This is how scary movies should be made!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JEEPERS CREEPERS is an example of how good scary movies should be made simple, scary, and entertaining! The plot concerns Darry (Justin Long) and Trish Jenner (Gina Philips), two college students on their way home from spring break. During their long road trip, they stumble upon an ancient evil that will relentlessly pursue them until it gets what it wants. What does he want? You'll see...Congrats to writer/director Victor Salva, the cast, and the rest of the productive/creative staff for making an original and suspenseful movie! "},{"Title":"what was this???","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OH MY GOD! this film was absolutely awful.  where was the scary parts? they tried way to hard!  And what was with the story line?  the only good bit was the bit with the bodies being dumped down the tube that's been shown on all the trailers, the storyline kinda went downhill from there.  And that annoying woman! the psychic, that ruined it totally, infact the whole of the packed out cinema was laughing at bits that were supposed to be scary! and what was with the ending?  that was worse than the ending to house on haunted hill or message in a bottle!  How can this really be the scariest horror movie in the US for 10 years?  I have seen worse. I was extremely dissapointed, i went into the cinema in the hope of seeing a decent horror film which there hasn't been for a while, and all we get is this pile of crap! ok moaning over, just save yourselves some money and go see something else.  "},{"Title":"Jeepers Crappers","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  All the negative comments are valid and any good reviews are from children with no experience or taste. I seriously regret spending the time on this swill. The Birds? The Duel? OK, there are crows and a truck chasing a car. No movie here. I weep for the victims of our film industry. Salva is illegitimate. Avoid.  "},{"Title":"Horrible movie","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen in the theaters. Nothing tied together in the movie. Dialogue between the characters sometimes had nothing to do with the story. It really wasn't all that scary. The ending was pathetic. I left the movie feeling like I should have been paid to see it. I wasted a good hour and a half sitting in the theater when I could have been doing something more constructive such as searching IMDB. ) "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen in my life!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having seen all of the other movies in the theater, I went to see Jeepers Creepers this weekend because the trailer looked mildly interesting. The beginning of the movie was a bit slow and completely unbelievable, but not terrible.  As the movie progressed, things went downhill from there very quickly!  The dialogue was ridiculous and clichéd, as were the characters and the plot.  I couldn't believe anything that was happening and everyone in the audience including myself was burst out in laughter and disbelief many times because of the sheer absurdity of what we were watching. I can't believe anyone would make a film that is so incredibly horrible.  Sitting through that movie was torture, except for the hilarity that came from the ridiculous moments.  It makes no sense, has a horrible ending, and makes me want to cry, scream, and tear my skin off just thinking about it.  There is nothing original in the movie except for the unbelievable amount of absurdity woven into the film.  Please, at all costs, avoid ever watching this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Obnoxious, Boring, Cliche","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This might be considered a good horror flick if ... you are 13 years old or younger. Midway through the adolescent banter that that was supposed to be sort of dialogue between a grown brother and sister ... mixed in with the unnecessary screaming, the pasty scare tactics that went out with the Texas Chain Saw Massacre ...We were cheering for the good guys to be murdered by the thirty minute mark if for nothing else but to allow us some relief from their next dim witted show of ignorance.Yeeeeeeeuck.Suffice it to say that I rated this movie a 1 and would have scored it lower had the IMdb allowed me to go into the negative digits on the scale.Don't waste your time or your money at the theater or the video store if they are not too embarrassed to release it on video.BTW, who said it had a surprise ending? You have got to be kidding me.  The only surprise will be if you make it all the way through without falling asleep.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money on this.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is not clever -- it's basically somewhere between gory and hokey with a plot that goes nowhere. It's a poorly put together piece, with no real suspense, no sub plots or stories, just one big long drawn out chase scene between the predator and its two pieces of prey. The ending leaves audience with no sense of a resolution, and its purely for shock value only. Can I emphasize enough -- don't spend any time or money on this movie?!?  "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was the worst waste of $7 I've ever known. I have never seen such an unoriginal, boring, waste of film in my life. If I could award negative points for a film, I'd give it a -5.The plot was sluggish and the movie at not point had a shred of originality. The entire shootout at the police station looked exactly like the shootout in Phantoms. The entire torture room looked like a tamer version of Dee Snider's Strangeland. The demon wasn't even that convincing.The editing was almost as bad as the plot points. One moment the car the kids are driving is smashed to bits, the next it looks like it came off of a lot, brand new. The color schemes were horrible, as the colors would suddenly brighten at a moment's notice.The characters never tried to get remorse from the audience. If something like what happened at the begining happened for real, not a single soul would actually go back to see the crime scene. I heard more laughs in the theatre than screams, or even the occasional that's gross, because everything in this movie has been seen before. The fact that the girl (I'm not gonna even bother remembering her name) referenced the Scream movies didn't help much either.Whoever approved of this film being made should actually sit down and think real hard about this abomination that he/she released. The standards for horror films have reached a new low. "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had no expectations going into Jeepers Creepers and I didn't pay to get in so I may have enjoyed myself a little more than the regular paying customer would have.  The first half hour of this movie was one of the worst things I have ever experienced.  I contemplated walking out because it was so bad. I didn't even pay for the movie but the crap that was on the screen was so horrible I almost left, but I didn't and I am almost glad.  To be honest with you, you should probably see this movie, but not more than once, just to experience it.  You'll enjoy it more if you don't pay though.  Plain and Simple this movie is enjoyable because it is so bad, that's it there is nothing left to say about it.  I can't even go on anymore, the movie is ridiculous. "}{"Title":"I hope Mr. Coppola distances himself as much as possible","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After having seen Justin Long in several episodes of the tv show Ed, I still wasn't sure if he was a good actor.  I now think that he was meant to play a stuttering teenager, just not in a horror film, ever again.  He and Gina Philips made this film almost unbearable, though they didn't have much to work with - the script was born from the same place as the big scary monster in the movie (Hell, of course).  I really don't like to put people down like this, but I'd like to think we could expect more from a major motion picture in this day and age.  I advise you to rent this movie and watch it with people who don't care if you're laughing when you're supposed to be scared, and planning tomorrow's outfit while you're supposed to be listening to the dialogue. "},{"Title":"A piece of crap.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't believe Coppola is associated with this movie!  I can't believe Clive Barker gave a thumbs-up!  It's not horror, it's a comedy because it's so stupid.  I had no sympathy for the two main characters, they were annoying.  Five minutes into the movie, I wished the bad man (who's about as scary as Haley Joel Osment on valium) would eat them whole.  Save your money and go rent Scream for the 100th time.    "},{"Title":"Wow...that movie sucked.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, let's see.  What could I possibly say about this movie?  Ok, how about... LACK OF PLOT! ... BAD ACTING! ... HORRIBLE SCRIPT! ... RANDOM EDITING! ... AND ... a general lack of scariness, which is not good for a supposedly scary movie.  I'm pretty sure that this was the worst movie I have ever suffered through in my life (tied with Tomcats) and I've seen a LOT of movies.  The only thing that I don't understand is the lack of intelligence exemplified by certain critics and users of the IMDB. POSITIVE REVIEWS?!?!?  Oh my, the world is a sad place indeed where such a schlock of crap can garner any form of word of mouth other than a screaming tirade of how horrible it was.  Please, let this movie die fast.  Let it's boxoffice receipts crash as people are warned ahead of time to not waste their money. Jeepers Creepers... the title alone should have been enough warning, but I thought that it was clever to name a horror film with a seemingly silly title.  I have more to say, but it pains me greatly to even think about this laughable excuse for a movie any more. "},{"Title":"Apocalyptically, soul wrenchingly bad.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the all time worst movies I have ever seen.  The only things this movie had going for it is that the acting didn't completely suck and Eileen Brennan has a cameo.  There are plot holes so big you can drive a semi-truck through them.  I have never been to a horror movie that the audience openly laughed at and groaned all the way through.  The main characters would win numerous Darwin awards for their rampant stupidity. Victor Salva owes me money for seeing this film and I think it stole a part of soul as well.  Someone must have been being blackmailed to have financed this load of drek. "},{"Title":"Awful does not come close!!!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If there were a -10, that'd be my vote. Never have I been so completely insulted by a movie - and I emphasize, NEVER. The plot had total holes and the jumps, by about a third of the way through, ceased to cause a reaction. That car scene was ridiculously silly and the psychic was useless. There could have been so many other paths that movie could have taken - for instance, the ...psycho Sistine Chapel. I would have much rather found out what was going on with the who, what, where, why and when of that. The only redeeming quality comes from the two principle actors; they did a great job with what they had. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst X-files Episode ever!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is probably the biggest reel of garbage since... no no it hasset a new standard! The acting was not even worth mentioning... I can't even find one point in the whole movie that was not madefun of and laughed at by most of the audience.  Nobody in thetheater I was in felt very satisfied...just humored at the fact they justlost 6 bucks! "},{"Title":"WOW!  Two hours of my life that I will never get back!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Words cannot accurately describe how bad this movie was.  Stupid to the point of insulting!  If a colonic could be turned into a film this was it. It was sheer torture to have to endure the entire film.  I fought numerous thoughts to leave the film, instead opting to stay in hope that it could get better.  I was wrong.  With acting that has not been seen since Keanu Reeves' stint as Bill S. Preston-Esquire in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, I was painfully reminded why I don't usually go see films like this.  It got to the point where the crowd I was with (which was multi-ethnic grouping) started talking to the screen, each other, talking on their cellular phones, and smoking weed to ease the pain of this movie. Powder was painful, why this?  It got to the point at which we were all hoping the main characters would get killed.  FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, AVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE.  AVOID IT LIKE YOU WOULD A DAVID HASSELHOFF RECORD! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had so much more potential.  The first half of the film had me on the edge of my seat and I was beggining to think someone had actually made solid horror movie, while at the same time breaking the trendy mold of late 90's Scream teeny bopper horror flicks.  Those thoughts quickly came to a halt midway throught the movie, when our seemingly mortal psychopathic killer turns into a superhuman demon who can fly causing a burst of laughter throughout the theater. The movie turned from an edge of your seat horror thriller to a laughing stock.  The drastic change from realistic to unrealistic ruined any chances of Jeepers Creepers becoming a successful horror film and will leave you shaking your head exiting the theater just as you did for the Blair Witch Project  "},{"Title":"worst movie ever -- I'm serious","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  bad plot bad acting bad effectsneed I say more "},{"Title":"WORST. MOVIE. EVER.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Where to even begin?  This movie REEKS.  Those who actually gave this movie a 10 must work for MGM/UA.  I'm not going to give a plot summary, because many have already done that, but please for the love of God don't go see this film.As many others have stated, the movie starts off OK.  However, it doesn't take long for the tired old cliches (and worse) to surface.  The ending is even more horrid, making the movie even more stupid (which up to that point I had thought impossible).  The ending made me CRAVE an old tired cliche.I was in a crowd of college students, and throughout the entire movie I could swear I heard people collectively rolling their eyes.  After the first 30 minutes I was just waiting for the movie to be over.  If I had had my own car available at the time, I would have walked out (something I have never done before at a theater).Once again, I urge you, do NOT see this film.  "}{"Title":"How did this movie get produced?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The beginning of this movie had me shaking in the chair I was sitting in but the movie just went downhill from there all the way to the end.When we were walking out of the theatre, I noticed everybody were wearing donkey ears.I strongly suggest that you don't watch this movie...you will end up wasting your money. "},{"Title":"How Not to Make a Horror Movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Slow opening, unscary monster, absolutely no logical plot...not even a thin one that would give any explanation of anything, and nonsensical ending.  I made better junk than this in college.  I would have been upset about wasting money to see this even if I had seen it in the $1.95 theatre. "},{"Title":"A movie so bad, even Alan Smithee wouldn't put his name on it.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow. This is truly one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The entire audience was laughing throughout, the special effects were NOT very special and the dialogue seemed to be penned from the grave by Ed Wood. In fact, this script makes Glen or Glenda look like My Dinner with Andre. Often, film can be so bad it becomes good, so to speak. This, however, is not among that list. Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie?","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was the least scary, most over-hyped piece of rubbish i've ever seen. Not at any moment did i feel the least bit scared, jumpy, hesitant, or any feeling other than utter boredom. People who think this is scary seriously need to get out more - try the local fast food chain for starters...Jeepers, creepers, where'd you get those peepers... - give me a break! This movie was obviously based around the lyrics of a song - Hollywood originality does it again! To think when i saw it in 2002 i was told it was the scariest movie in 10 years or so... ...right... I just wish i could forget i ever saw the bloody thing; a fate i'm sure i will have to endure until death takes me! "},{"Title":"Classic Horror! Cry in a thin air!","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Everyone will be surprised to know that first time I saw this movie was on TV in 2006! I am Big Fan of horror/thriller movies and I watched this movie on one cold December night after midnight! I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this movie! A pair of Sibling Darry Jenner (Justin Long) and Patricia 'Trish' Jenner (Gina Philips) are on a ride towards home via country side. They come across with this thing which awakes after every 23 springs and gains full strength thru whatever it eats!. Darry finds himself in deeper problem when native crazy lady Jezelle Gay Hartman (Patricia Belcher) tracks him and tell him to be very careful and run for his life whenever he sees/hears these certain signs over all the movie is good. however once the monster unleashed there wasn't much left to do. the only thing I don't agree in this movie is the ending. The director/story writers could have done better Job! Jeeper Creeper 2 has much better ending! "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't think anyone read the script before they started shooting this movie... I'm pretty sure the guy who wrote the script for this movie didn't read it before this movie was filmed. This movie is horrible, I have nothing good to say about it.This movie had nothing to offer anyone. There was no plot, the main characters were excessively retarded even for a horror movie. The demon was almost as dumb as the two kids. Nothing made any sense.Why would the demon only eat some parts of some people? Why did he sew bodies together? Why did the cops not shoot he demon in the face at the end of the movie? Why did a demon drive a car? Why did that girl not know how to drive a car? The characters are not well done either. Their is no continuity between any of the characters. That retard kid was all over the place, the retard kids retarded sister didn't make any sense either. Their emotions were always changing without reason or explanation.Lets not forget the f****** demon. I mean seriously, what a pathetic excuse for a bad guy. He can kill hundreds of people no problem, but he has trouble killing these two retarded kids, and in the end he doesn't even kill them both? I wanted those two to die, they earned it.I'd rather fist myself with a cinder block than watch that movie again. "},{"Title":"Way below average movie (with the ultimate spoiler)","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is somewhat of a mess. I primarily watched it, because it is an early Justin Long movie and i kind of enjoyed movies with him so far. Technically, he doesn't let you down, his acting is still alright, but the story is somewhat messy - maybe its misled from the trailer.The movie is good up to the point where Darry, the character played by Justin Long, and his sister go looking for help. It's all downhill from there, the story becomes illogical and what seemed to be a more realistic horror movie becomes a fantasy film where the killer is some sort of demon.So far so good, i could live with that if there was some proper back story to all the happenings in the movie. But there simply is nothing like that. Just a demon walking around, killing people. Oh, yes, this is the ultimate spoiler. There is no need to watch the film, because there is no mystery and suspenseful or fascinating story that is told at some point. What is left, is - i really have to repeat it - the story of a brother and sister behaving irrationally and a demon driving and running around killing people. If you like dumb movies like that, go for it. If you are looking for a suspenseful, thrilling story where you are told at some point *why* something happens, skip it. It is also nothing like one of those movies where you are just glad that the main characters get away from their hunters in the end. The ending is just hugely unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Suspend Your Disbelief and Get Taken for a Ride","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers (2001)Suspend Your Disbelief and Get Taken for a RideOddly, Justin Long, who nails this movie with his absolute sincerity, is more famous for his Apple ads (he's the Mac), and for the same reason. He has a believable, lovable, regular guy quality that oozes from every look. And so when things go wrong and wronger, you are right there with himAnd when things get almost ludicrous (they really do take flights of imagination that demand a willingness to kick back and soak it up), we are still right with him. Which makes the ending totally powerful.Archetypes abound, and clichés used well. The evil truck is perfect...if I saw one in real life I'd freak out. Every time I see a car painted matte grey I get the creeps, but this truck takes it over the top. And why? What are the little cues that make it click? Ask the director, Victor Salva, who seems to take a minimal idea and maximize it. I've seen it twice, and it holds up. "},{"Title":"Where did u get those peepers","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie Jeepers Creepers is an ode to classic horror. Not much blood and guts like your average slasher film. But a great method of suspense that will scare you when you are at home alone.The movie tells the story of two siblings, Trisha (Gina Phillipls) and Darry (Justin Long) Jenner. The two are on their way home from college when they pass by an old church, only to see a man (Jonathan Breck) dumping something (appearing to be a body wrapped in sheets) down an old drain-pipe. Darry, looking for a little adventure, persuades Trish to turn around to see what was going on. The two soon discover the apparent victims of a serial killer in the basement of the church. Thousands of bodies, all missing at least one part of their bodies. The killer starts stalking them, but he isn't what they think he is, he is a demonic creature who feeds on human body parts.This movie was highly entertaining. Vastly superior to its okay sequel. I recommend it to horror fans. "},{"Title":"Unique and truly frightening!","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Around 2001, I was really beginning to believe there was no such thing as an original horror film anymore, but then along came this scary little gem!Brother and sister, driving home from college, believe they have stumbled upon a murderer, but this 'murderer' turns out to be something far more terrifying!Director/writer Victor Salva made a tour-de-force entry in modern horror with this clever, twisted film. From its startling opening sequence to its mercilessly chilling conclusion Jeepers Creepers is a gripper of a horror movie. Salva delivers an imaginative and frighting villain, terrific suspense, and lots of spooky back-woods atmosphere. Salva also adds some very stylish elements to the film and the occasion moment of very dark humor.The cast is another of the films strengths. Young stars Justin Long and Gina Philips are likable youths thrown into an unbelievable situation. Patrica Belcher is effective as a small-town psychic who's desperate to help the young leads. Jonathan Breck, even under a ton of makeup, does a scary good performance as the 'Creeper'.Also of note are the excellent makeup FX, perfect art direction, the beautiful Florida filming locations, and a dramatic and haunting musical score.Jeepers Creepers became the sleeper horror hit of 2001 and rightfully it should be. It's one of the most wildly original and effective horror films in many years!**** out of **** "}{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen (regardless of genre).","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers truly doesn't have it all - at all. In what looks like a good premise for a film - a kind of horror version of Duel in some ways, it really disappoints. There's terrible acting, the plot goes awry and goes downhill from there. In fairness the first 30 minutes or so wasn't totally dreadful (that gets a 2/10) though certainly the acting marred it a great deal.The only reason that kept me from leaving the cinema was in hope that it would improve - I thought the plot slide was just a glitch; how wrong I was. The ending was atrocious and seemed to me like the writer couldn't really be bothered.I even found the 'Jeepers Creepers' song irritating! I was so surprised there was a sequel. "},{"Title":"danger!!  Stay away!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If there were a negative 1 rating, that would be appropriate. This may have been the worst movie I have seen in the past ten years. Please do not waste your money renting this movie!! I have not seen it for a few years, but I'll give you my opinion from what I remember. The movie starts out with about 30 minutes of a boring conversation in a car between a boy and his sister. This may have been the best part of the movie. The characters make so many unrealistic actions, that you wonder if they have become senile at age 25. If you have seen the old movie I spit on your grave, you have seen a movie with much more class than this movie. I also viewed Jeepers creepers 2, which was approximately 3 times better than the original (3 out of 10). If you have any sense at all, you will stay away from this movie like the plague! "},{"Title":"A terrifying horror thriller!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two college students heading back home from college for spring break are terrorized by a maniac driving in an ugly looking truck that has steel plates on it's windows. Later the kids see him dump sheet wrapped bodies down a drain pipe, but when they try to warn the police, they come under attack by the maniac who is definitely not human & will not stop pursuing them until they are both dead. JEEPERS CREEPERS sure was a breath of fresh air in terms of the horror genre, after dealing with a bunch of SCREAM rip offs, it was nice to have something different to watch. The film is filled with suspense & atmosphere that hooks you into the film from it's beginning right to it's ending. The Creeper made for an interesting villain & the make-up job done on him was awesome, the acting & direction was also good & the kills gruesome & inventive, sadly however the film lost it's footing when the kids hit the police station, which kind of turned the film into more of a suspense-less direct to video sci-fi B movie. What a shame it didn't stick with what was established in the first half of the film, oh well at least the ending was different than most horror movies. Highly recommended for horror fans & followed by a sequel, JEEPERS CREEPERS 2***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"The most boring horror movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To put it simply do not watch this movie! It's crap. It is not scary and the story is so boring you might actually fall asleep. There's not much happening during the movie, the only reason to stay awake is cute Gina Philips walking around and looking good... ;)Jeepers Creepers is some kind of transcendental scary movie that features a weird looking creature that is supposed to be some kind of horror element . This creature follows the two protagonists around and cannot be harmed by things like bullets or by being run over by a car several times. Sounds crappy? Exactly. If you actually watch this movie until its end you'll be even more disappointed by one of the worst film endings in movie history. You've been warned... "},{"Title":"A mediocre horror film.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Trish(Gina Phillips)and Darry Jenner(Justin Long)are normal siblings who are driving home from college through the middle of nowhere.Soon they encounter something horrific in the basement of an abandoned church.During the first thirty minutes the film does work rather well,unfortunately it suddenly takes a supernatural turn and goes quickly downhill.Still there is a fair amount of suspense plus a little bit of gore.Gina Phillips and Justin Long generate enough believable sibling chemistry to make them likeable.However the revelation of the boogeyman's true nature is simply laughable.Jeepers Creepers isn't bad,so if you haven't caught it yet give it a look-just don't expect something really memorable.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the Top 3 WORST movies EVER!!!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was soooo incredibly BAD.  There was no plot to even be called pointless.  The characters were soooo incredibly friggin' retarded that everything they did could be predicted by a four year old who was playing with his toys instead of watching this piece of crap.  So many things were brought up, but never elaborated on or even finished, like the dumb story of that dumb couple who gets killed, and that extremely vague and banal psychic lady.  I have never ever in my entire life, walked out of a movie so angry.  I wanted to hurt whoever gave the go-ahead for this piece of garbage to ever make it to film.  It was an insult to the idea of film, to the audience and I'm am incredibly irritated that they have some how convinced people to make a second one of these.  I urge all of you out there, Do NOT waste your money or your time to watch Jeepers flippin' Creepers or its sequel for any reason.  Please DO NOT watch these movies so that Hollywood won't think that they can get away with selling that type of crap to the public.  Jeepers Creepers is bad, insulting, stupid, incredibly pointless, and HORRIBLY predictable. "},{"Title":"Pure Horror","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie a few months ago and have to say that it is one of the best and most disturbing horror movies I've ever seen. This movie isn't so much about guts blood and gore as it is about terror. It focuses on a brother and sister who, while driving home together from college find themselves mixed up with a horrific murderer. The film's sheer suspense and honest terror add up to an awesome movie that will have you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Jeepers CRAPers","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers ...hmm... the name sounded a bit tacky i thought... but then i thought.. what the hell... let's go see it anyway...It starts off quite good - a scary movie that makes you jump every few minutes. Until about halfway through when you find out the mysterious mass murderer is, in fact, a horribly tacky big green slimy alien who tastes fear and comes out to play every 23 years just to eat human organs... *sigh* If you pay more than half-price for this film, then you'll be ripped off, as the second half is just a big pile of poo.I walked out at the end, not with the trembling fear that the adverts implied i might have, but with that bloody annoying song stuck in my head...*do not take literally - it's not worth going to see... "},{"Title":"the worst movie i've seen to date","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i love movies. especially horror, but this movie is the worst i've seen to date. no real plot. no character development, NO type of tie in with ANYTHING (the cats? the old lady? what!?!?). you are always waiting for the point of the movie to 'start', it never does, and right when you think it might it just ends. if i could give this movie a 0 i would. i can't say i regret paying the $9 to see the movie because i'm glad i saw the worst movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Why did they let Victor Salva make this movie?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Do not go watch this movie I repeat Do not watch this movie. This has been the worst movie this year or should I say decade. The movie was of course horror which, is one of my favorite genre and this did not do anything for me or everyone else who was in the theater. The story just pathetic, pointless, and not even worth writing. The acting was the worst part as well as the direction. The Creeper was not even believable you can tell theres a man in the suit right away. The action was not good at all it was more of let's get it over with. Everyone in the theater was booing at the screen when it ended. I even saw a few people walk out during the film which, to me says it all. I am very dissapointed in this film and the director which, I thought was good. This will get the best award for the most waste of time movie. I recommend you don't even rent it just wait until it's free on the internet. Thank you for your time. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever sat through.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this movie to be a severe disappointment from what I was expecting. I was not frightened, I was not distressed, I wasn't even slightly uneasy. I left the theater with the feeling that I had just wasted $5.00 and a good two hours of my life.  The script was so horribly written the film was painful to sit through, and I only did so only hoping that it would get better.  This hope was never met.  Every time I thought that there was a situation that could lead to something exciting or half interesting it was never acted upon.  The plot was exceptionally predictable and equally over done.  The so called villain/monster was laughable.  It was the typical generic monster with absolutely not creative flair.  Gina Philips and Justin Long did as good of an acting job as they could considering the script but the characters themselves were just plain annoying.  I have never wanted to just hop into the film itself and smack some common sence into two people as badly as I wanted to in this film.  Once again the trailer was far superior to the film itself.  I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Are you serious?","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Did I see the wrong movie? The only thing scary about this movie is the setting, an old hick town in the middle of nowhere. That freaks me out. Other than that, there is no explanation of anything. Why does this monster exist in the first place? Where did he come from? He just likes to hang out in some white trash little town. All the money from the budget went to the Creeper's makeup. I think this movie was just an excuse to get that song Jeepers Creepers popular again somehow. There must be some kind of conspiracy... And the acting! My God! You'll wish these kids get killed by the 8th minute of this movie. What the hell was with Darry's facial expression the whole time? The kid looked like he was in a strip club for the first time in every scene. This movie was totally predictable, and not original at all. I would even go as far to say this was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Movies like Troll 2 were so bad they're great. This movie tries to be great and falls sadly sadly short. The only thing that kept me watching this movie was Gina Philips' portrayal of Trish. Mostly, though, I was waiting for a nipple shot. In closing, do NOT see this movie. I don't know why I heard good things about it but they were all lies! Do not be fooled!  "},{"Title":"Jeez Jeepers","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was just horrendous. If you are a thinking being in the least, then there's no way you could be frightened by this movie. I kept rooting for the driver because I absolutely just wanted to slap the taste out of the two main characters, who were bland and boring.I've taken scarier naps than this.For those saying that you have to turn your brain off to enjoy the movie, I have to say NO. If you have to turn your brain off to watch something, it's a bad movie. I mean, if you stop thinking, you can enjoy anything. If we turn off our brains, how can we then be scared by a horror movie? We might as well be entertained by watching pretty, pretty pictures set to music. This could be entertaining if one is a completely baked, die-hard stoner, but really, it's terrible. The whole point of a horror movie is to be startled, grossed out, and above all, scared. If you have to stop thinking to enjoy something, then it isn't worth anyone's time, and it's an insult to us, the audience, that filmmakers make stuff like this. They're basically saying, Yes, it's no good, but that's okay, because you're too stupid to appreciate anything better. We, as an audience, have to stop patronizing crap like this and demand we are served quality entertainment. If we pay to see a horror movie, whether in money or in time, we should be frightened, or at least be able to see how it could frighten someone else. I was neither scared, nor could I see how anyone else could be scared by this drivel. "},{"Title":"What's eating me? The fact that this was green-lit to begin with.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In a world were audiences are all too conditioned to the horror genre, the last thing one needs is to be handed an over-hyped over-celebrated piece of mainstream clap trap. Enduring this film was hard for me, because personally there was no spark. At all. The acting was shallow, and the plot predictable, however what really annoyed me with this film was the lack of verisimilitude. Of course, this is only a film. It's an art form that is never obliged to follow the realities of life. But, specifically for horror films where the point of the movie is to entertain and thrill, if not horrify, this film is a huge letdown. I'm not against the creature genre at all - there are many great horror films that rely on unrealistic predators (e.g. Alien) and these films still fulfill and audience. If there was ANY aspect of reality in this film, it would have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"This movie has no end! *minor spoilers*","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And it's not because it's long. Because it's not. In fact, the movie is only HALF a movie...and the best character in the whole thing gets unused. C'mon, the TRUCK is the scariest part of the whole dang movie...they could've built the whole plot on the whacko with a truck! Heck, for a few minutes, I thought that the Undertaker from WWF fame was playing the bad guy, and that was enough to give me the willies...that all ended when the kid went down the drain. After that, the kid with no lungs alerts the viewers that this movie is about to go from cool to stone cold stupid...and it does, shutting off so soon there isn't an ending...heck, there's barely a beginning...and it's a shame such a promising beginning had such a lame movie attached to it. What the horror genre really needed was another freak in a monster truck driving over teenagers, not another demon monster from beyond stealing folks eyeballs. Definately a disappointing movie. As we say around the house, That was a bad movie...but at least it wasn't Lost Highway. "},{"Title":"First half - excellent suspense. Second half - absolutely stupid.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Look, I really wanted to like this movie! Like many people I'm tired of the recent post-'Scream' batch of smarmy po-mo self-referential slasher movies, and would love to see Hollywood make a genuinely scary horror movie again. At first, I was impressed by this movie, with its very effective tense atmosphere, and its nods to Spielberg's classic thriller 'Duel'. Director Victor Salva has already shown he can make a strong, suspense filled road movie, with his underrated 'Nature Of The Beast', and I thought 'Jeepers Creepers' was going to surpass it. But as soon as the villain was shown, the movie went rapidly downhill. I can't think of a sillier premise in recent memory. I can tolerate a certain degree of sheer stupidity in horror movies (see the work of Dario Argento, Lucio Fulci, Lamberto Bava and much of the Italian horror genre), if there is enough style or sheer entertainment value involved, but 'Jeepers Creepers' quickly devolved into a ludicrous mess, and dull to boot. A major disappointment! "},{"Title":"Did I miss something here?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting a scary, classic-style B movie horror  flick...I didn't find it. This movie was not scary, though the sound effects were annoyingly loud -- as was the lead actor. Enter the Creeper. Here we have a supernatural demon creature that is immortal; has large, leathery wings for flight; eats certain parts of humans for 26 days every 26 years; AND drives a rusted out 1940s era army ambulance?  Who thought this up? Even better the Creeper's truck has personalized plates BEATN6U ... the idea of a DMV office issuing personalized plates to a supernatural demon creature is pretty implausible.  The ambulance is pretty cool though and reminiscent of the truck from Duel. The makeup effects were sub-par. The Creeper's corpse collection was too shinny and looked like a bunch of mannequins.  I would have at least expected a bunch of blood and gore from this movie, even the eating scenes lacked any sense of remote realism.  When we see Darry's hanging corpse in the final scene, you can see through his gouged out eyes and through his missing skull to the Creeper behind him. His face is completely intact, but if his skull had been removed there would be no way for his face to retain its original shape.  The makeup effects were quite unconvincing and technically flawed.  And the plot holes A supernatural demon shouldn't have any reason to sew up its victims after it ate their insides; it shouldn't be  worried about authorities locating its corpse collection, thus setting the entire abandoned church afire when the two kids report their findings to the police.  (And we only heard about that over a police radio broadcast -- it would have been nice to actually see some good effects.); and it certainly shouldn't drive a truck. And what about a normal human reaction to seeing a supernatural demon? The Creeper assaults a Sheriff's Station the entire department ineffectively shoots at it, watches it bend steel; eat people; kill most of the cops; walk on walls; and finally take a victim and fly out of a window...and what do they do the very next morning?  Nothing. They act as if it's business as usual.  And did they ask the Creeper to take a short rampage break while they changed into their SWAT gear from one scene to the next? When Trish's parents came to pick her up, she acts like oh, I guess Darry isn't here, I guess I'll go home now..  Hmmm. This movie's concept had great potential but the writers screwed it up.  Had they written the Creeper to be a psychotic, methodical, serial killer they could have had a darn good film.  Instead they insulting our intelligence with a creature that they didn't develop properly and dialogue and scenes which were too shallow to be believable. I couldn't even enjoy this as a campy horror film because the plot holes were so blatantly obvious.   There is some entertainment value in talking about how bad this film is though.  "},{"Title":"An Hour and Forty-five Minutes of my life that I'll never get back...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Give me great movie please! Looks like the director/writer watched Duel, Predator, and I Know What you did last Summer one too many times. The critic in my city's paper (Who actually liked it) summed it up as Less is More. Well, no, less is embarrassing. Some of the worst dialogue for any genre of film. When I wasn't laughing like crazy at the stupidity of the on screen antics, I was secretly weeping at the fact that I spent $15.00 for myself and my girlfriend to get in the theater. Unless your other favorite movie is Urban Legend or the Blair Witch 2, I hope you will never have to suffer through this disaster of a film. "},{"Title":"Quite a let Down","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't want to start an argument over this but...unfortunately I disagree with others who say its a great movie with all sorts of great plot twists. These days since Scream is seems that making an in movie joke about horror movies is the popular way to get the audience to look past the characters stereo-typical stupidity and other short comings.  Like you know the part in the horror movies where the guy does something stupid and everyone else hates him for it...this is that part.  Something to that extent was said right at the start of the movie, what I would call a cover up for the fact that Guy is quite stupid.  just hold my feet while I look down this well he says to his sister.  It was frustrating to watch, there were extra pieces that weren't used in the film.  Like showing that the victims had their bodies sewn together after they were attacked...it never actually happens in the film as far as we see and the motive to sewing them up never gets addressed, and lets not get into the psychic character...  Jeepers Creepers starts off with this killer being some sort of mad man and fizzles out to just your typical monster fest, complete with excessive violence to cover the lack of purpose in the story-line.  To wrap things up, the ending was a lacking, in my opinion.  I won't say why because I wouldn't want to spoil the movie further (if that is possible).  I haven't been this disappointed with a movie (or its ending to be exact) since Planet of the Apes (2001). Of course that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"What's scary is that some people thought this was good.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One reviewer said that since it's a horror movie, people are expected to do dumb things.  Sure, if the writer/director has no imagination.  I don't recall that anybody did anything especially dumb in PSYCHO or THE EXORCIST.  Things followed pretty much logically from a premise.But this movie has no detectable premise.  This time we can blame the script, since the director IS the writer.  But maybe there was no script; it just seemed to be made up as it went along. Maybe this guy thinks it's cool to make up stuff on the set.  If so, maybe he should go back to film school.The expectation that people do dumb things in horror movies just shows the level to which these movies have sunk.  The first rule of character development is MOTIVATION.  You have to have a good reason to do something, and then you have to act with a little common sense--AND THEN you still fall into the monster's clutches.  And speaking of motivation, what motivation does the monster here have?  Why is he doing these things?  Is he a demon?  A cannibal?  A cannibal-demon?  And who cares?As far as the two leads go, they may be able to act, but it was difficult to tell, since very little of it was required.  The guy saw something horrible, then becomes way too traumatized afterward.  Struck speechless.  Of course, he seems to be someone with very limited communication skills in the first place.  This is one of those movie which Roger Ebert referred to in which there would be no movie if anyone said or did the obvious thing.And the camera was always cutting to the horror-stricken, panicky look on the guys face.  It got really boring.I think the general deterioration of horror movies is shown by remakes of CARNIVAL OF SOULS and of THE HAUNTING. Maybe someday we'll again see true horror, done with intelligence, wit, and a minimum of F/X. "}{"Title":"Characters too stupid to be afraid of anything and a monster so lame that they're almost justified.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***some mild spoilers follow***After a briefly promising first hour, the movie rapidly spiraled down into realms of stupidity that were staggering in their scope. The characters, while well acted, were written as such morons that after the *5th* time we get a close-up of their shocked expressions as they stare at the creature approaching them, I found myself wishing that the demon would get it over with and kill them.Still, considering how unimpressive the demon was after finally being unmasked, I can't really fault them too much for not showing the appropriate level of fear. They were most likely thinking the same thing I was, What is this rubber monster, and when is Buffy going to show up to put a stake in its heart?Sadly, there was no slayer to be found, so the movie kept right on trucking, taking the unfortunate audience along, to it's horrifying conclusion.And I don't mean horrifying in a good way. I mean horrifying in the I can't believe that telegraphed the ending this badly, and then followed through with exactly what they telegraphed without giving even the pretense of a surprise twist, or even a sense of irony way.I can not recommend this movie to anyone, and frankly I would be afraid of anyone who would. "},{"Title":"Use your time wisely - do NOT watch this movie !!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Seriously folks, this may be the worst movie ever made. Well at least the worst monster-movie. Anyway, it made me register here so I could warn other people about it...The story is highly illogical and stupid to say the least. Not even in horror-movies people should do things as stupid as the protagonist siblings.The acting is the only thing about this movie that really gave me a bit of horror. Gina Philips at least is acceptable, the rest of the cast can't be called actors at all. The only thing worse than that ist the directing by Victor Salva who either is really that bad or never was at the set during filming.I bought the 2 DVD special edition of the movie because of its nice and promising package design and some comments here saying that the movie was not so bad. A great mistake as it turned out. While the Making of on the Bonus-DVD was better than the movie itself it did not contain anything really new and everything would have found room on a single DVD as well.I thought hard and the only thing remotely cool about the movie is the Creeper's truck. This one really looked scary and I'd not like to see it in my rear mirror ...Who in the world gave money to produce a sequel to this waste of celluloid ?? "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie at a horror festival in Montreal. From the publicity, I thought I was in for an original adult-oriented horror movie. I was very disappointed to discover that Jeepers Creepers is a SCREAM disguised as a demon movie.I would also agree with some of the other reviewers who pointed out that a demon who owns a truck and travel around in it is ridiculous... Even more so when they themselves makes the point that the demon can fly faster than ANY car/truck in the movie! Anyways, the director lacks imagination (so does the scriptwriter) everything you see in Jeepers Creepers, you've seen done A LOT BETTER elsewhere, and often too, none of the most important plot points/characters holds up to someone that has seen more than half a dozen good movies before... Just not worth wasting 2 hours of your life for! "},{"Title":"People like this movie?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie just two days ago, only because it was free, and was horrified...at how BAD it was. In my own opinion, this entire movie was pure garbage. This is entertainment in it's cheapest form. Anyone with intelligence would be insulted seeing this movie. Most of it didn't make sense.The characters made the worst decisions possible. Even in other horror movies where they make bad decisions, it's because they don't realize how dangerous the situation is. The two characters in this movie KNOW how dangerous it is and they still decide to throw themselves into danger.The bad guy/monster/boogie man, which is never explained by the way, looks so silly that people in the theater were laughing in the supposedly scary parts.The acting was horrible, the script was incoherent, the special effects were cheap and I don't understand why people don't see this. The only ones who do are the critics, yet after ripping the movie apart, they give it two out of four stars. If Jeepers Creepers is two stars, I would be scared to see a 'no-stars' movie.There was one scene, however, that I really related to the female character. This kind of summed up the entire movie for me. She watches the monster killing one of the town's police officers from a distance and is horrified. She gasps and whispers, I am NOT seeing this. I couldn't agree more.1/10 "},{"Title":"Great start, horrible ending","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS Even with the the extremely stupid characters, the start of the movie was good. When i say stupid, I mean STUPID!!  Almost insultingly stupid.  NO ONE, & i mean NO ONE would have went back to that house.  The main characters from Dumb & Dumber wouldn't have went back.  Not to mention the incredibly stupid move of climbing down the well.  I nearly walked out of the theater on that one.  I'm sorry, no one on earth is that dumb.  But even with that, the movie was still clinging to an ok rating.  That is until they met the woman with the cats, that was the start of down hill.  & it continued down from there.  I fail to understand what the psychic ladies purpose was.  Was she just there to have a black face in the movie.  I really hope not.  She was stupid & annoying, & no person in there right mind would have listened to her, she sounded as stupid as the siblings.  She deserved to die as much as they did.  I was cheering for them to die.  I was absolutely p***ed that only the brother died.  I was waiting for the sister and/or the psychic to join Darry.  This movie sucked.  Dont waste your money.  Out of 10 it gets a 1. "},{"Title":"What a modern-day horror flick is supposed to be.  Nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From Sixth Sense to Blair Witch Project and right on through to The Ring, in recent years horror movies have been missing several key elements.  Let's look at the horror movies of the past Friday the 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Halloween.  We're talking about the days when it was OK to show blood and gore without worrying about how real it looks.  The Ring shows gore for like 1.5 seconds and then cuts away. Blair Witch Shows a burry rag with blood in it and later a guy facing a wall. Sixth Sense doesn't even have people being stalked and killed, for Christ's sake!Jeepers Creepers brings us back to what horror really is.  Horror is a demonic creature with a scary truck and a basement full of mutilated corpses.  Horror is that hand that grabs the main character's ankle during that calm silence, causing you to jump 3 feet in the air.  Horror is knowing that there's no way out and some folks are gonna HAVE TO get their heads cut off.What is so hard about getting those elements in a movie?  I for one have had enough of 'psychological thrillers' and all that jazz.  Give me a tortured soul out for revenge or sharp-toothed blood-thirsty superbeast any day. (Please do send me your comments) "},{"Title":"Disjointed. (No pun.)","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had really hoped that I would enjoy this movie...and I started to. Then about a half an hour in it started getting really disjointed and the plot seemed to jump around. At first, the villain (creeper?) seemed really cool...kinda like just some weird-o with a truck slightly reminiscent of SweetTooth's truck in Twisted Metal Black.Clearly he was a bad guy...then he started to get weird...eventually turning into some poorly-explained creature. When asked about this movie I tell them that the first half-hour is good, and that each ten minutes after that seems like it was written and directed by someone else, and each person didn't get to see what the person right before him had done. Basically, it was crap on a crap-cracker. You did, however, for a very brief moment...get to see Gina Philips in her panties. It is this shining moment that I cling onto when I have to think about this film. "},{"Title":"Where'd u get those peepers???","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers creepers doesn't fail at being a good horror film, it just simply could have been better. There are some good elements to this movie that should not be overlooked. One is Justin Long and Gina Philips. They have great chemistry together and because of that great chemistry, you buy their sibling relationship, it works. Another good smart element, is the cloaked figure, the look and the mystery behind him is well executed in the film. Eileen Brennan is good here too, she's creepy and is good in her old cat lady role, even though she doesn't have a lot of screen time. The action/terror sequences are well made, and entertaining. It's not all scares, it slows down occasionally, but it's overall pretty good. Overall Jeepers Creepers gets a 7/10. Not great, but pretty entertaining. "},{"Title":"Instant classic.....","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A simple definition of the horror film is one that elicits negative emotions by playing on an audiences basic primal fears. Jeepers Creepers manages to both elicit emotions not only of fear but also something more. This film is, on a certain level, distressing. There's something icily primal about the manner in which a brother and sister, are stalked by a predatory creature who, quite literally, picks up the scent of the vulnerable and remorselessly pursues them. The creature mimics humanity yet, as its intentions and actions reveal, it a monster, possessed of an utterly unspeakable, inhuman nature. An uncomfortable fact, driven home in hauntingly distressing fashion, in the films chilling, final scenes. Jeepers Creepers works because, in one sense, its familiar. The Creeper might be a nightmarish fantasy but its a metaphorical man monster. One that is not too far removed from human monsters, who, in a sense, mimic ordinary people, whilst secretly stalking the vulnerable, with unspeakable, inhuman intentions. In summary, Jeepers Creepers might be a low budget film but don't let that fool you. This is an intelligent film, that taps into real, primal anxieties and cleverly manipulates them, crafting a disturbingly outlandish but at the same time, familiar, nightmare experience. Ten out of ten from me. "},{"Title":"Very impressed, very innovative","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For years I had heard nothing but mediocre things about this movie. A few nights ago I watched it and was pleasantly surprised and impressed. This movie terrified me, chilled me right to the bone, and not many horror movies do that to me. From the early shot of the Creeper's truck coming into frame and slowly into focus at speed seen through the windshield (One of the coolest and most innovative shots ever I think) to the ending, Jeepers Creepers has a lot to offer.The biggest thing for me was both the premise and the ending. The premise is actually very unique and is absolutely petrifying when you think about it. An inhuman monster luring people off the highway to eat their body parts and keep their bodies in a dirty, grimy lair, that is just pant-wettingly terrifying. And the ending especially impressed me.*SPOILERS AHEAD*At first glance it appears that the filmmakers are going to phone it in and give us the standard climax (The cops shooting and/or blowing up the Creeper and saving the two protagonists) and that is what I was gearing myself up for. Fortunately, the filmmakers were a little bit more imaginative and went with the ending we got. Honestly, it's a struggle for me to remember a movie that has a more bleaker ending than Jeepers Creepers does. The sheer finality of it all, the helplessness of the psychic character (who wasn't killed, surprisingly) and the disillusioned look of the sister all play a big part in this. And I've often wondered what it would be like to see the sister having to return home and explain to her parents what has happened to her brother, that's how much you can get invested in these characters. Is it a perfect movie? No, not at all but is it enjoyable and a breath of fresh air? I believe so.Highly recommend this one!! "}{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers (7/10)","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although Jeepers Creepers feels like an odd combination of horror films, especially Texas Chainsaw, it's still a unique horror film for its time in the early 2000's. Director Victor Salva, who also wrote the film, did the right thing by making the central focus about the two main characters. These two characters were played by known talent Gina Philips and Justin Long, if they were the right choice of casting is a different and difficult question, but the leads certainly could have been much worse. Supporting cast wasn't all that great and neither was the dialogue throughout the entire film.The place where Salva truly made a fascinating and horrifying addition to the film is the concept and look of the Jeepers Creepers' monster. The monster seems to be half man, half bug and appears to be designed off of a dark scarecrow figure. Besides the monster itself there is a total lack of originality with the film's premise and had an ending that seemed a little abrupt and unfinished. Definitely something to check out though strictly for entertainment, the film goes by pretty fast without much thought. "},{"Title":"THIS is considered horror??? More like comedy!","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was wanting to watch a scary horror movie when I found out about this movie, Jeepers Creepers. I heard that it was one of the scariest movies of all time and it had lots of scares. So, I watched it, and surprisingly I enjoyed the film. However, how in god's name do people call this a horror??? More like a comedy!! The scares were predictable, there were hardly any twists, hardly any gore...I just didn't find this scary at all. If you want a decent horror movie with plenty of gore, then don't watch this movie. This movie is called horror, when actually it made me laugh in hysterics. However, if you want an entertaining film, watch this. It'll make your day a whole lot funnier. "},{"Title":"Now come on kids there is nothing to be scared of.","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are some many horror movies out there better then this one. I don't know why people like it so much. There better horror movies that are not hyped about as mush. Jeepers Creepers 2 is so mush better. Anaconda is very scary and so much better. Plan 9 from outer space is better. I could keep naming movie that are better but let's get to point. The ending was edited out hello people get over the special effects and look at the story line. It get you in but ending is gone. This a very badly edited film and I am very disappointed. Since I herd this was going be better Jaws 2 and Halloween II and The Godzilla remake 1998. The original Godzilla was not ever so good has the 1998 remake. The original Halloween was ever has good as Halloween II. The original Jaws was not even as good as Jaws 2. And these are good movies . This one just sucks. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Horror movies","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The tension of this movie is great. Usually with most horror movies, there is a dumb decision by one of the characters. For this movie, I could not figure out how they would have escaped this thing. This ranks as one of my top movies. Up there with Blair Witch, the Relic, and the original Elm Street. Very atmospheric, great characters. Even though it's not in a secluded place like inside of a house or basement, it still feels very enclosed. I would ask anyone to see this move no matter what type of horror fan you are. Give this movie and a chance, and post back to this site so the director can see how great this movie is and can get motivated to make a third installment. The sequel is not as great, but still a great watch. "},{"Title":"New and Creative!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert! I absolutely enjoyed this very different and rather original film. I have to say this is like the first horror movie I have ever seen where the looks of the main characters were actually the whole idea of the movie. What I mean is when the lady on the phone actually describes the way Darry looks like. I mean in all the horror films I saw the hero could of looked like anyone and it won't have affected the story line. Another thing that adds to this is the way the creature looks the girl on the phone says, I don't know if it's a demon or a devil. If you look at the creeper he looks exactly in between the way she makes him out. I really just love how this film focuses on the way things such as the atmosphere or the character look, unlike many other films. Most of the horror films I've seen are about the music or the gore. I loved this film so it's a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Was a writer fired mid way through.","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers creepers could be two really good separate movies. Starts off as a brother and sister driving home for the holidays. They of course get to a lonely stretch of the highway and crazy enough a old rusty farm truck comes bolting up behind them. Tailgating ,hand on the horn and swerving everywhere . The brother and sister concerned they are going to be run off the road by a crazed driver with the number plate BEATNGU move over for the truck as it speeds past .Great , awesome, predictable start but not bad so far. Little further down the road they see the same car stopped at a small country church so the slow down slightly and catch a glimpse of what seems to be a man in a hat and large coat carrying a bag shaped like a body with blood on it throwing it down a large pipe coming up from the ground. The driver/man notice the brother and sister . Gets back into his truck and catches up to them and tries to run them off the road a once again. Afterthe big mucho brother who looks like he would snap like a twig insists they go back to the church and check out the pipe.It's a horror movie remember so of course we have to have some idiot with a bad idea to get the movie started. So going back to check out the crazed mans pipe and not king I the police is need. I'm starting to enjoy this movie . The brother proceeds to crawl inside the pipe with the sister holding on to him up top. Things get hard so she loses her grip and he slides down the pipe. Of course. At the bottom, he finds hundreds of bodies sewn together.I'm starting to really enjoy this movie . The brother gets out before BEATNGU gets back and they bolt to the nearest cafe . Getting touch with the local police to tell them what they have seen . Police go to have a local and apparently the old church is on fire burning down to the ground. I like this movie, my minds starts ticking about where this story will lead us . Old man tries to get young drivers to drag race him on the roads hence his number plate BEATNGU - beating u . But when he is losing he runs them off the roads, watches them die, gets the guilts so takes them to his secret pipe and tries to fix the horrific injuries by sewing them back together. Once he knows the police will be on to him he burns church down to core his tracks. Pretty good story . Nope. At cafe some weirdo rings up and talks about some crap and monsters and stuff. The man driving the car crazy with the body at the church is apparently a monster his named the Creeper who comes to feed on people for a week or so only once every 20 years or something.So The creeper has wings but someone taught him to drive , it's also not a automatic car so he must have had a few lessons so he doesn't stall it all the time. Quicker to fly for him if he only has a week to get food. Someone taught the monster to sew on a sewing machine. Would love to see him thread that needle with his weird hands and sharp long nails. He looked so pretty hunched over the sewing machine . The Creeper even took time out to get some personalised number plates for himself, BEATNGU actually stands for Be eating you. The creeper sure knows how to waste the small amount of time he has every 20 years . Why would you bother spending hours at DMV for a set of frightening number plates that no one guess the meaning to them correctly anyway. Then we have the church burning down. Why bother when the creeper could have easily just eaten the police that came anyway. Once we find out the Creeper story the movie just is stupid. Nothing gets answered and the first part of the movie no longer makes sense . What's even more interesting and stands out a lot in the second jeepers creepers . The Creeper has a thing for boys, he seems completely uninterested in girls. "},{"Title":"Fun Ride","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is a family favorite. We enjoy the idiosyncrasies of this movie, actually. Don't look for logic, look for suspense! This film has it... enjoy the ride. Oh, and in some places... it's really really gross; but I get you might like that. I've read the reviews and there are a lot of goofs, but again, you're not watching for literal value. Actually, the actors are believable enough and frankly, if you don't jump a few times, I will eat my words!With that said, I think the plot, scenery, and action are well thought out. I like the 'peaceful' country side, small church, tight community mentality of the movie. That is the scariest part of it all. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been much better","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film had all the makings of an excellent horror film, and it was enjoyable for the most part. The characters were strong, with good acting from the two main parts as well. The story was clever and creepy, you got a sense of dread building from the moment that truck showed up behind them. The suspense was excellently built throughout the film.The thing that let it down was the ending. It was building up to a big finish, maybe some sort of stand off, I really wasn't sure what to expect. In the end it was a let down. They just let Jeepers Creepers fly off. The girl made her big speech for nothing. I will admit the very last scene was extremely creepy, but that should have been after a much more exciting finale. All in all this film was good, but could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"When was the last time you changed your socks?","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Darry and Trish are on their way home from their freshman year at college. But the trip turns dangerous as they see a man in a trench coat and a hat that dumping something down a pipe. They recognise him as the man who tried to run them off the road earlier and investigate to see what he dumped. What they discover terrifies Darry. They try to get help from a crazy woman and a psychic before they realise what's been chasing them is an ancient demon known as the Creeper who eats people to regenerate his body parts....The film starts out fabulously, like Spielbergs Duel, an unknown entity trying to kill two siblings for being too nosey, and the fact that no one helps them only adds to the tension. And this works to such an extent.But right when the old cat woman shoots and makes the Creeper blow up, it falters, turning something that could have been a taut, realistic thriller, into another generic horror movie. The cast are great, the two leads have great chemistry as siblings, really getting on each others nerves, and this at least makes you believe they care for each other.The redeeming factor is that it doesn't go for the powder puff Hollywood ending, if you wanted a lightweight horror, its as nearly as grim as Se7en, not as good or as shocking, but the film finishes on such a low note, which is very rare for a generic horror.There are tense moments, the final third is filmed well, but after the fact you realise the Creeper is a demon, it all goes to pot a little. "},{"Title":"This one has it all! Top notch Horror film will become a classic.","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" . Darry (Long) and his sister Trish (Phillips) are driving Trish's car through an isolated stretch of roads through Florida to go back home. At one point a huge industrial truck runs right up on their car from behind and blows its extra loud horn scaring the two siblings off the road. After gaining their composure they continue on until they spot the same truck at an abandoned church where they spot a large fellow in a hat dump what appears to be a body wrapped in a sheet down a large drain pipe. After discussing right and wrong, Darry convinces Trish to go back and let him have a look. While Trish keeps her eye open for the demonic truck Darry accidentally slides down the pipe and finds an underground lair of horrors. Nude and dead bodies are woven in the ceiling like a sick tapestry. Darry escapes but is badly shaken. Trish gets him to a rest stop where he receives a bizarre phone call from a psychic named Jezelle (Belcher) who warns him to run if he hears the song jeeper's creepers. What happens next is an intense and scary showdown on the road with Darry and Trish and a creature that is known as the Creeper (Breckman) in pursuit. The Creeper comes around every 23 years and has 23 days to take body parts that he needs to survive. Darry & Trish know he wants something from one of them but they don't know who. They end up at a police station with Jezelle until the Creeper comes to take what he is after. A chilling end scene is one that is horrific and memorable. Writer/Director Victor Salva proves his early film Clownhouse was no fluke. This highly original story provides horror audiences with a new villain in the form of the creature known as the Creeper. We get to know the creeper and his background as the course of the film unfolds. Salva makes this character mysterious and downright scary early in the film. You are certain to get chills when Darry and Trish drive by the church and the creeper is standing there starring at them. More layers are revealed later as the Creeper toys with the siblings doubling as a scarecrow in a yard and pursuing them on the road. Until you realize in a shocking scene that the Creeper has wings and can also fly! Salva just keeps making the character scarier as the film progresses and the brother and sister team and the audience watching the film sink deeper in their seats as more is revealed. Another stroke of genius was making the two main characters brother and sister instead of the time worn couple. The dialog between the siblings is completely believable and as an audience we immediately like them. Since the story is told through their eyes we go along with them for the thrilling ride of terror and scares. Salva layers the film with mystery, great suspense and is smart enough to add some gruesome gore at times but doesn't over do it. The only flaw is when the siblings get to the Police station towards the end. The excellent momentum the film had up to this point is stopped momentarily with the addition of the psychic in the film which slows the pace for a little bit. It's also obvious that the bumbling police are there to be killed off quickly which actually makes the Creeper less scary in a way as he easily slaughters the cops. The final scene is a true chiller and this movie is an excellent horror film! "}{"Title":"scary but with a bad ending","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a really good movie,but the end is a let down. It is really scary the first time watching. The main characters are Justin Long & Gina Phillips. Justin Long is amazing as Darry Jenner. It's just sad that he is killed off at the end. Gina Phillips is good in her part as Darry's sister Trisha Jenner. If you want to watch a truly scary movie,watch this. I would not recommend watching the second Jeepers Creepers though. It is terrible made. Justin Long has a bit part in the second one. The rest of the cast is terrible,the script is terrible. They are making a third one,it doesn't come out till 2013! So fans have a long wait. I read that some other people wish Justin hadn't have been killed off too. Then there were some who thought he was a gay (not literately) actor. I definitely think he is a great actor. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever made, hands down!","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This first came out when I was about 11 years old, so I wasn't able to see this in theaters. Got to finally see it on DVD 2 years later, and boy did I have nightmares for days. Even 10 years later I'm watching it on TV now, and it still scares the crap out of me. Justin Long, the guy who plays Darry, is a phenomenal actor. At the beginning he's just a regular college guy, that you could hang out with in real life, and have a great time. Not the college frat boy type, who parties at night and drinks til he pukes. So on that level I related to him! Justin and Gina had a lot of chemistry through out, and you got the feeling they were really brother and sister. Now back to the movie plot itself. It's freaking scary! When the movie starts to show the killer, you automatically think it's a creepy human guy, but within an hour later you you don't know what kind of creature it is. I was thinking it was the devil himself. What could be worse? Had me on the edge of my seat the whole time. Kept my interest and never got boring. The storyline when watching it on the big screen is refreshing and unpredictable. The characters aren't annoying, and ones who you actually feel sorry for. You're hoping they make it til the end! I can't imagine any horror lover giving this lower than a 7. Guess they're just movie prudes. Oh well "},{"Title":"a great WTF old school monster flick","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i freakin love Jeeper Creepers! it makes u want to never drive on a stretch of open road ever again. Once again simple scares work the best in a horror film and that is exactly what this gives you. Story wise it's great brother and sister are driving home from college on a road that's out in the middle of bum f*#k no where and come across the remains of old church where they discover the legend that is the creeper. While being chased by this demon being they run into a psychic who tells the siblings that for one month out of the year it eats and gathers parts from people that it wants. Unconvinced and eventually cornered in a police station the Creeper takes the brother and disappears leaving sister in a state of numbing shock. Thus ends the film.When I saw it it was opening night, theater is packed and to make it even better it's the thunderstorm of all thunderstorms outside, a beautiful night altogether. We get up to the point where Darry and Patricia (bro and sis) are in the police station and it looses power. One or the other says he's here and the camera pans to a wall around the corner and right before you see him we lost power in the whole theater. Crowd freaks. Once everyone calms down (we're still sitting in total darkness mind you) some guy in the back starts whistling jeepers creepers like the monster does in the film. crowd freaks even more. I loved it. had to share it.Anywho, the only part that peeved me was there's a part in the film where they are in the car being escorted by a police car behind them and the song jeepers creepers comes on the radio. The song is actually peekaboo by siouxsie and the banshees. (look it up when the video was aired on beavis and butthead it's sooo funny) i can't stand stuff like that. Loved it when the monster dude french kissed the decapitated head. it's so gross and awesome at the same time. it's stuff like that that makes me love JC every time i watch it. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Fright Flick","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not only is Jeepers Creepers downright scary at times, it is also lots of fun to watch. I'm not one to pick a horror movie apart at the seams, because this genre tends to have plenty of implausibilities simply for the sake of a good scary story line. We've come to expect that from films like this. Director Victor Salva presents us with one of the most frightening opening sequences in recent memory, and the fear and tension are kept at a maximum during the entire film. There's no gradual buildup here as in so many horror films. I've heard several people tell me they liked the movie until the Creeper creature showed up, but then they lost interest. Not me. The Creeper is one of the more imaginative movie monsters of recent years. The photography is another plus. Very good use of light and shadows. All in all this is a horror flick that is head and shoulders above most. "},{"Title":"Such a disappointment  for such a promising movie. The second movie was much  worse -(","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was a really disappointing movie. At first it really ticked all the right boxes and even had great lines such as Is it dead? no, they never are which of course is true!! There were chases, scares, weird monsters, a good plot and even good acting. Everything you could wish for in a decent horror movie. But the ending was really sudden and the climax which was built up all through the film came to absolutely nothing. I have never been so disappointed at a film ending.The first hour was well worth watching after that don't bother. I give this film 3/10.Jeepers Creepers 2 was even worse, the characters didn't get much further than 3 yards from where they were first attacked. No scares, bad plot. It was a bit like the film Speed with monsters but a much less scary.Jeepers Creepers 2 rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"A Horror Movie I could Get behind!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Plot On a Desolate country highway, two homeward-bound teens (Gina Philips & Justin Long) are nearly run off the road by a maniac in a beat-up truck... and later spot him shoving what appears to be a body down a sewer pipe. But when they stop to investigate, they discover that the grisly reality at the bottom of that pipe is far worse than they could have ever suspected...and that they are now the targets of an evil far more unspeakable - and unstoppable - than they could have ever imagined! My Spiel I have to say that this movie has been watched a bunch of times by me. Let me be the first to say it is a sweet roller coaster ride. But back when I first saw it in theaters its sad to say some of the scenes were cut out, because they aren't on the DVD version. From what I saw in theaters doesn't take away any of the wow factor from this movie or what it has to offer. This is miles way better then the second jeepers creepers which I urge you not to see, It is a abomination to the Creepers story line. That rest my case as to why it ended after 2. But Jeepers Creepers had it all, With the shock factor of the Creeper being a unknown entity unleashed after 2 unexpecting long road country traveling brother & sister. My favorite part was when Justin Long's character is talking to the cops at the diner about what he saw and how it tied the Kenny & Darla story at the beginning into it all was simply amazing in my eyes, Making it something so crazy and amazing! Jeepers Creepers (2001) Review 9/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Film!","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a somewhat well known horror movie released in the 21st century. This movie was released a little while into the 21st century. This movie is definitely one of the better horror offerings given to us from the new era of film. One reason is simply because it manages to be somewhat different. The idea is nothing new, but I like the way it was executed. It introduced us to a very cool horror villain without having a pointless back story on it. The acting is also solid, the creepy tone is there, and the amazing feeling of terror is there throughout the entire film.The movie starts off with a regular looking brother and sister on a trip. This starts adding depth into the characters, but before long, the siblings' car gets attacked by an oversided truck. This leads to a very good opening car chase. This car chase uses plenty of Hitchcock style shots, which I thought was great. It is also followed by a very creepy scene where we see the villain dumping some dead bodies down into an abandoned church. This movie relies on this type of creepy atmosphere rather than gore or gross out scenes, although there are quite a few of those, too.This development in plot would lead to a chain of duologue scenes, which are actually pretty well done.As the movie movies on, the characters get even more developed, and it becomes easy to get involved with the movie this way. The viewer will continue to have that uncertain atmosphere along with the duologue, but that is the magic of Jeepers Creepers. Then; just when the viewer can't take it any more, we get introduced to a very fun action scene involving a decapitation. This scene marks as the halfway mark of the movie, which is where the frightening element ends and the fun begins.In my opinion, the first half of the movie worked better because it felt somewhat real. We've all had arguments with our siblings, we've all been lost on a country road; and the way the story is developed, the idea of a maniac chasing you down seemed somewhat believable. Well, after the movie begins with its second half, we learn more about this maniac. The story then begins to drag on a little to far, but since the movie turned into a fun action movie, I'll let this slide. I had fun as the movie progressed, and I began to feel more and more for the characters. This is VERY rare for any horror movie to come out after the year 1995, so I was highly impressed and amazed at this. The entire movie is very well set up, very well shot, and very well acted. Definitely a recommended movie.This movie DOES contain several problems, though. First off, I thought that the movie ended way too abruptly. I haven't heard a lot of people say this, but I simply think that the ending of this movie was rushed, and could have been executed better, but ever film has its flaws. I also thought that the CGI effects where downright terrible, but hey, what do you expect.Overall, I liked this movie, it's definitely worth a rent, if not a buy.FOR IN DEPTH HORROR REVIEWS CHECK OUT MY YOUTUBE CHANNEL HORRORREVIEWS123 "},{"Title":"What horror movies are all about","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie has it all. Good dialog, acting, humor, suspense, atmosphere. Sure the monster isn't the most creepy looking thing in the world, but that doesn' ruin anything. That shows how good the movie is! How many times do you watch a movie and dislike it because the monster looks so stupid, or you are annoyed that they never showed it. As I have said that makes little difference to this movie. This movie will also not change your life, but it is a great way to spend an hour and a half any night. There are a lot of good horror movies that are good once, and thats it, but not this one. I could easily watch this several times! BTW I was skeptical watching this because I saw the sequel, which was rather pathetic first. Now I regret saying that, Thank you IFC for proving me wrong! "},{"Title":"Jeepers creepers","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was a very unique horror film i thought,, the first half is very suspenseful in that you don't know too much about the creeper , all you see really is some psycho dumping bodies down a sewer pipe. Then you learn that maybe he's some kind of Mothman or something,, then you find out that the creature can fly,, pretty interesting,, Gina Phillips wow is she hot or what in this.. The Creeper looked very intense like the costume,, also liked the fact that not too much CGI was used either. The cops in this movie are pretty dumb too say the least. I liked how they tried running over the Creeper several times too make sure that he was dead,, it says that thet Creeper feeds ever 23 years,, and lasts for 23 days,, hmm does anybody see the number 23 connection here, hmm, anyways,, this is a good film for the most part,, it does have some scary moments,, and good creature effects. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horror movies","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I completely love this movie! I've seen it a bunch of times. The acting was quite good and the story was excellent. I think it's a cut above the usual horror fare. I found it to be tense and suspenseful. There was loads of action and it totally kept my attention. I know some people commenting are turned of by what they consider stupid moves by the characters. Oh come on. It's a horror movie. What kind of movie would you have if everything happened in a logical and expedient manner? Why must the characters do certain things?! Because it's a horror movie and you have to do stuff to keep it going. Anyway, I'd highly recommend this movie. I particularly love the ending. I think it's great. Someday I'm just gonna break down and buy the DVD. That's how much I like it. "}{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" **spoiler** I mean this movie start REALLY well, all the beginning with the guy in the truck with jeepers creepers song, sets the movie in a really creepy mood but right then when its start to getting interesting it takes out this really rare and funny creature and blow all off right from that point the movie is boring and predictable. ** end of spoiler **Greats interpretations by Gina Philips and Justin Long with a really well start for the movie it gets really scary but ruins at 30 or 40 minutes of the movie. Final Conclusion great beginning with a bad middle & ending. "},{"Title":"Interesting and stirring horror movie with an eerie and creepy monster","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Jenner brothers, named Patricia(Gina Philips) and Derry(Justin Long)are travelling across the rural South. They stop to investigate an old dark refuge what looks like a killing , but results to be a bizarre monster , Creeper(Jonathan Breck)which appears each new 23rd spring, after several years. He needs humans for a good barbecue and the teenagers brothers are menaced by the murderous maniac Creeper. The brothers flee and looking for to save their own skin , when the cannibal go after them.This exciting movie with original monster, displays terror, suspense,cannibalism, thrills, and lots of blood and gore. The genuinely scary monster packs an excellent make-up, is played by Jonathan Breck who performs a double role as a bald cop; furthermore appears the veteran Eileen Brennan as the cat lady who confronts against Creeper. The motion picture is professionally written and directed by Victor Salva , he tries for profundity at the end and blow it. Salva is an expert on suspense's creator of atmospheres, such as he proved in  'The nature of the beast, Powder, Rites of passage and Clownhouse'.Followed by inferior sequel with Ray Wise and Justin Long appears briefly , realized by the same director, producer Francis Ford Coppola, American Zoetrope, cameraman Don E FauntLeroy and musician. Besides, the third part whose screenplay is written and preparing to enter preproduction . The script will have a prologue in the Old West which concerns how Creeper became from Native America folklore "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is a true horror classic. Some people who couldn't get past the lizard in the hat part of this, I feel bad for them because obviously they have no imagination. This movie had every element necessary to create a great horror film. Why a 7/10 you ask? Only because compared to classics like From Here to Eternity and Rain Man, this movie is very pale in complexion. If you are a huge fan of horror movies and entertainingly fun gore, watch this flick and enjoy. Those of you who have heard that it is cheesy and fake from friends, well Maybe in their opinions, it was. Maybe they need more gore and are looking for a Re-Animator type of movie, but see it for yourself. If you turn out not liking it, what did you waste? A measly 90 minutes of life. Just take a chance. "},{"Title":"One of the few horror films that i feel freaked out by.","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers (2001, Dir. Victor Salva) On their way back home during the spring break, Darry and Patricia Jenner witness a mysterious person dumping something down a tunnel. Deciding to discover what was dumped down there, Darry discovers a huge disturbing hideout full of modified bodies. Darry and Patricia set off to get help, unaware that the individual is now aware of who has been down the tunnel. Darry and Patricia soon realises that their pursuer is not just a mysterious person, but something even more horrifying, who has more in store than they could possibly imagine.'Jeepers Creepers' is one of my favourite horror films. It's not because it's got a well designed looking monster, or because Justin Long's and Gina Philips' characters are developed so well. The film does contain these aspects, but the big reason why i love this film, is because it is one film which does contain scenes which i feel freaked out about. Horror films rarely affect me, but this film just provided well filmed scenes, whilst keeping the Creeper hidden for the first half of the film. The shot of the Creeper just standing and watching the car drive past, really makes you think what you would do in the same situation. Although, the quality of the film decreases a bit at the end, i had a wonderful time watching this film.Every 23rd Spring, for 23 days, it gets to...eat. - Jezelle Gay Hartman (Patricia Belcher) "},{"Title":"The Creeper, amazing","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" -Warning!!! contains spoilers- First off, a lot of the people i know have said that because the creeper is some kind of demon/alien/crazy hillbilly monster, they found this a scary film until the Creeper reveals himself. I however think that this improves the film and the franchise so much, as the film itself is obviously meant to be a tongue-in-cheek affair, its a b-movie kind of film, and it revels in the fact.This is definitely one of my favourite films, and definitely top of the genre, the only beef i would have with it is, what happened to the b-eating-u truck?? Hopefully well see it again, though its not likely considering the next film will be 23 years into the future, however if it is a prequel, you never know.In short this film gets 10/10, a fantastic, thrill soaked ride, and who can forget the first time you saw the creeper eating that tongue? "},{"Title":"Good beginnings, but fades quickly","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Goodness me, but this film is dreadful. What Mr Coppola was thinking attaching his name to not one, but two of these films, is beyond me. I am someone who is fairly sensitive to scary films; so when my girlfriend suggested hiring this, and on the cover (UK) it has will give you nightmares for weeks I was really apprehensive and ready to be scared. And the beginning of the film is good, hence the 3 stars I've given it - but oh my, once the two main stars (who frankly look so stupid as to be worthy of slaying - remove them from the gene pool, please) reach the diner, the scariest parts of the film are over. As another reviewer has written, horror works best when you can imagine the incidents occurring in real life. In this film, any semblance of credibility is long, long gone before the final third starts; and it ends - thankfully quickly - in a flurry of illogical and badly-acted scenes. Only scary if you are in your early teens and still half-afraid of the bogeyman under your bed. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers will scare the Peepers out of you!","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers will scare the peepers out of you! This crude but effective creature-feature, shot on a modest $10 million budget, relies chiefly on suspense and shocks rather than blood and gore. Although he sacrifices momentum inevitably in the middle because of expository dialogue requirements, writer & director Victor Salva of Powder has conjured up the scariest spine-tingler since The Blair Witch Project. The big difference between Jeepers Creepers and Blair Witch is one features a mysterious monster while the other remains monstrously mysterious. A popular complaint about horror movies is they reveal the monster too soon, and the creature lacks the malignant evil we as moviegoers anticipate based on our anxieties. Although Jeepers Creepers antes up a long shot of the bogeyman in the first quarter-hour, Salva wisely delays a revealing close-up of it until about half-way through the action. Produced under the aegis of Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Studio, Jeepers Creepers sends shivers down your spine thanks not only to Salva's Spartan storytelling but also freshman lenser Don E. FauntLeroy's haunting cinematography that evokes an aura of unease. Basically, the Creeper--as the end credits refer to it--consists of a guy in a latex suit that can perform back flips as nimbly as a ninja. Of course, Salva and FauntLeroy hide its features for the most part, but the webbed claws erupting like plumage from its reptilian skull and canvas-like whooping of its bat wings enhance its diabolical appearance. Brian Penikas's full costume and makeup synthesizes elements of a gargoyle with bat wings, Swamp Thing, and Todd MacFarlane's Spawn. Unlike most horror chillers, Jeepers Creepers doesn't rupture your eardrums with an industrial-strength orchestral soundtrack. Instead, composer Bennett Salvay's incidental music quickens your pulse without deafening you. Audiences that crave happy endings are advised to shun this shocker as should the squeamish.Victor Salva's provocative but formulaic script unfolds in three acts. Initially, we follow Trish Jenner (Gina Philips of Living Out Loud) and her younger brother Darry (Justin Long of Galaxy Quest) as they cruise home from college for spring break in her '59 Chevrolet Impala. They are taking Florida's lonesome, two-lane blacktop, back roads. Evidently, Trish prefers the long way home to fighting traffic on the four-lanes. Although filmed in Florida, Jeepers Creepers looks as if it could have occurred anywhere in the South. Trish cannot find anything on the radio but twangy country music and shrieking religious zealots. Consequently, our leads indulge in idle sibling banter. They pick at each other and compete to see who can decode the most vanity license tags. Suddenly, out of nowhere, an ominous-looking, rust-coated, delivery truck with an outrageously souped-up engine tailgates them. FauntLeroy's low-angled camera setup makes this creepy truck loom over us, emphasizing its intimidating character, especially as its unseen driver bears down on them with his horn blaring like a banshee. This road rage scene generates the pedal-to-the-medal adrenaline-laced flavor of the Mad Max movies. Later, after the truck has swerved past them, they spot the maniac's vehicle parked in the woods near an abandoned church. Our heroes catch a glimpse of him. Draped in a long black coat, he sports a broad-brimmed hat, and resembles The Undertaker of WWF notoriety. They watch this wicked figure from afar as he dumps bodies bundled up in bloodstained sheets lashed with ropes into a sewer pipe. This villainous fiend spots them staring at him. Moments later, the menacing truck barrels onto the road and careens off in pursuit. Darry manages to lose the lunatic this time by plowing off into an open field. Fortunately, their assailant races down the highway into the distance.Jeepers Creepers takes two sympathetic characters and corners them in a white-knuckled nightmare of a predicament. Gina Philips and Justin Long appear splendidly cast as yummy, babe-chick, bigger sister, while Long resembles a young, grungy Keanu Reeves. The way they overlap their dialogue makes them seem like a real-life brother and sister act. Coincidentally, they encounter this murderous gargoyle-like predator (Jonathan Breek) with the ability to rejuvenate its own dead tissue. Basically, all we learn about this monster is he devours only victims that appeal to his olfactory senses. In the second act, after Trisha and Darry describe their encounter to authorities, we meet a creepy old lady (Eileen Brennan of Private Benjamin) with cats as well as a local psychic Jezelle Gay Hartman (Patricia Belcher of Message in a Bottle) who furnishes the facts about this fiend. According to Jezelle, this monster strikes every 23rd spring to feast on human flesh. Trish and Darry contact the police, tell their story, and are sitting patiently in the local police station when the Creeper attacks them again. The final act of Jeepers Creepers is reminiscent of the scene from The Terminator (1984) when Arnold rampaged into a police station.Salva creates genuinely suspenseful situations without resorting to cheap obvious gimmicks. He seamlessly entwines humor with horror, too. Salva treats us to an interior shot of the delivery truck crowded with bundled up corpses. Pitching another body inside, the Creeper slams the door shut. A moment elapses as we sit in darkness, then he opens the door and lobs in a severed head. Dyed-in-the-wool horror fans will spot Salva's homages to Night of the Living Dead in the opening scene and later Alien in the drainage pipe sequence. Like Night of the Living Dead, Jeepers Creepers starts with a couple bickering as they drive through a rural setting. A zombie doesn't attack our heroes; instead, a psycho in a hell-bent-for-leather delivery truck like Duel tries to run them down. Gore hounds more than the squeamish will appreciate this atmospheric supernatural saga with its off-beat, surprise ending. If you really enjoy this kind of grisly opus, hang around after the end credits for the short clip that has sequel written all over it. "},{"Title":"Does it take a sick soul to understand one? Probably...","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That's right; I'm back with my guilty-pleasure horror fetish. This time around, the old Tony Bennet song (named Jeepers Creepers) gets a chilling re-interpretation in the hands of Victor Slava. This convicted child molester must know a thing or two about twisted minds, because he created a horror classic about a winged creature that cuts people's flesh and goes out on a killing rampage every 25 years or so. Does it take a sick soul to understand one? Probably.What starts as your basic brother and sister get lost on the highway to hell story soon rubs off the clichés and starts shoving pure action and horrific twists in your face. While predictable to some, and without a doubt cheesy to others, it's a really enjoyable gem for fans of the genre. Trust me; you'll understand the last line of the song (Where did you get those eyes?) in a truly shocking meaning after watching this. "},{"Title":"Tell me more about Mr. Creepers","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Goodness gracious, can somebody tell me what was that thing? That creature was just eerie and spooky, not too mention confusing. I guess it is good that it only comes out to feast once every so often. I never really heard, or didn't understand the explanation as to why the creature was hunting the boy specifically, but I'm sure it had something to do with it needing his eyes. Creature features not only need to be scary, but they should have good explanations as well. I mean, we know why Frankenstein's monster exists, we know the history of Dracula and the Werewolf, and it is their history that adds to their mysticism and scariness. The Jeepers Creepers, had no history of origin, therefore when no one was able to kill it, it became a guessing game. "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy the ride, just get out of the way if you see any demonic trucks","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is fun and I enjoy it every time it comes on.That truck of his was bad to the bone. It must've had a supercharger under that giant hood, not to mention 3 or 4 locomotive air horns. What year was that wreck built? When in the past did they use demonic milk trucks anyway? Wouldn't you notice a truck like that cruising the roads where you live? Especially if people kept disappearing on a regular basis. How bad are the local police? Oh wait, that question gets answered in the movie.The best scene is when cat crazy granny cracks the annoying brother in the jewels with the shotgun, makes me laugh out loud every time.The sister is hot, the brother is annoying and stupid. The only flaw in the plot is they don't kill him off sooner.Not sure those cars had floor shifters? I guess it's an after market addition? "}{"Title":"Creepy Villain, Decent Scary Movie","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I get so sick and tired of the slop they try to pass off as horror these days. All too often even the most original and potent ideas seem to meet their doom at the slaughterhouse when Hollywood insists on adding talentless actors attempting two dimensional characters. Two thirds into the film you tell the bad guy out loud, Either you kill 'em, or I'm gonna'! Jeepers Creepers, however, has two believable and sympathetic characters played by Gina Philips and Justin Long. The film starts off running and keeps a fairly decent pace all the way to the end. The director does a better than average job at evoking creepy loneliness about the back country roads. Several times in the film I actually shared feelings of isolated dread with our two protagonists.The villain in the film is mysterious and actually frightening. The director keeps the audience in the dark as to the true nature of his deeds until the final stretch. When we do fully learn what drives him, its grotesque enough, but not over the top.What I found was how the film deflated at the end. The cops were portrayed as idiots, and that ruined the last portion of the film for me. However, Jeepers Creepers did redeem itself with a disturbing and unexpected ending. "},{"Title":"Reality should never get in the way of a Horror film","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Imagine a scenarioa kid falls down a pipe because he thought he heard noises-but the audience never did.Whatever in real life the girl who held on to him before letting go would have called both the police and fire brigade.But very conveniently they are miles from anywhere,the cell phones not working and there's nothing on the highway. What follows next is a story so full of holes it makes you wonder whether anything resembling common sense was used to write it. There's too much happens in total darkness and what possessed anybody to connect this nonsense to a clapped out 30s song which should have been strangled at birth God knows. The film seems to have borrowed freely from existing movies like Dennis Weaver's Duel or Terminator so it becomes a mish- mash in the end. Also in real life if the two kids who escaped had gone into a Diner they would at least have bought a Burger! But having escaped they go back and the story gets even sillier-the cats for instance would have been ferral in real life! "},{"Title":"Fantastic, intense first half is let down towards the end. A fine creature feature regardless.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a fairly stupid name for a horror movie. It certainly didn't inspire confidence in me that this would be anything but another lame teenager based slasher flick. As it turns out, Jeepers Creepers is much better than it sounds, and while it falls a bit short of classic status, is certainly not to be underestimated.Darry and Trish Jenner are traveling home for spring break when they are violently harassed by a seemingly psychotic truck driver. Soon after they witness the same driver dumping what appear to be bodies wrapped in sheets into a drainpipe. From this point on, the siblings are torn between helping the victims and escaping this malevolent madman intent on tracking them down. To make matters even worse, it soon becomes apparent that their attacker is far from human.I'll start with the positives here. The first half an hour of this movie is sensational! If it had managed to keep the standard set in this early period for the entire running time, it would indeed be a fine horror movie. Darry and Trish have fabulous, believable brother and sister chemistry. Their acting may not be award quality, but it's far above typical horror genre fare. When the terror starts, and it starts within the first few minutes, the viewer already has a connection with these characters and that's a credit to the actors and the direction of Victor Salva. These first scenes are seriously intense and I love it. To continue with the positives, the creature itself (The Creeper) looks fantastic. They really created a horrific and fascinating being. Without giving too much away, the filmmakers slowly reveal more and more features of The Creeper as the movie goes on. By the end of the film, you can see him in all his glory and it's a quite a site to behold.So why don't I consider this to be a classic? Basically, it goes downhill in the second half of the film. I've always been opposed to the use of psychics to tell a story and Jeepers Creepers is a classic case. With no easy way to tell the audience of the monster's history, nor his reasons for killing, the writers created a psychic woman that for reasons completely unexplained, has a complete knowledge of not only The Creeper but can also see into the future. I admit, it's not done terribly, but it does annoy me. Secondly, Jeepers Creepers can't quite decide whether it takes itself seriously or not. In my opinion, the first half worked so well due to its intensity and the seriousness of the scenario. Once it starts making self-referential gags and The Creeper starts whistling the Jeepers Creepers tune, I feel it loses that intensity. There seems to be quite a market at the moment for movies that mix comedy with horror. I just feel this wasn't the movie to do it.Do the positives outweigh the negatives? Yeah, I think so. I really enjoy the movie as a whole and recommend it to any fan of creature features and horror in general. The sequel also has some merit and I hope we see more of The Creeper in years to come. "},{"Title":"First half VERY good....second half baaaad!!!!","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If this film had continued in the same vein as the first half (i.e. before the villain was revealed then this would have been a 9/10. But as soon as you find out who/what it is then you might as well switch the film off.The first half is sooooo good - everything I like about horror films; suspense and that feeling that at any moment you will jump out of your skin; a-la-Alien or when you first saw Halloween - that tense build up before the scary moment. But as long as the atmosphere is there it doesn't have to be blood and guts.I like ALL sorts of horror films, but this had sooo much potential, which was spoilt after the first half. Hence the markdown. I'm being kind at 4/10. The first half is 9/10...the second 2/10. And the sequel is just the same as the second half of this film. You know what it is, therefore nothing to gain from watching it really. "},{"Title":"If only it were more than half a good movie....","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first half is genuinely frightening, in an adrenalin-inducing, jump-in-your-seat kind of way, not least because all the stereotypical gestures of this movie type are both stripped away and mocked. Brother and sister, likable, smart, flawed. A genuinely realistic premise for the uncovering of the bodies. No stock set of characters. No 'let's go explore that scary mansion'. And the lack of predictability continues to the hiatus in the diner with the phone call. Disorienting and requiring close attention, this film uses the standard tricks of its sub-genre, subverts and remakes them.And then it all goes wonky. Psychics and the nature of the killer, the running and screaming and driving, all reduce it to the level of same old, same old. And that's a shame. The sound throughout is highly skilled (particularly the use of silence and the Henry Hall song over the closing credits); the ending is suitably horrible; and sympathy for central characters in this genre is rare, but the fright factor just isn't sustained in the second half.I'd give this 8 for the first half and 4 for the second, so I've averaged it. "},{"Title":"very good but very frustrating","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS !well i finally managed to watch this film after years of friends bugging me to go and watch it. i had seen the trailers and thought to myself yeah big deal it just looks like another one of your typical run of the mill teen horror film anyway i swallowed my pride and decided to watch it and to my surprise i absolutely loved it. The way the opening scene was orchestrated with the two leads driving down the highway and then getting terrorised by a truck was absolutely beautiful. There was tension in those opening scenes which i personally don't think has ever been seen since Tobe Hooper's Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE or Sam raimis EVIL DEAD. sadly we don't get suspense like that anymore cos Hollywood seems to think that a great horror is getting pretty people and killing them BORING. So as i was feeling nostalgic for the golden age of suspense/horror the film sadly descended into the all to familiar Hollywood style of horror film making these days. lots of gore but no suspense. Fair enough having a demon that comes alive every 23 years and can only feed for 23 days was different but you need the suspense to make it work instead it just became very frustrating to watch it become another typical teen horror with the two leads screaming, getting lost, gearbox not working, (come on) and etc, etc. all in all a very good but very frustrating film. "},{"Title":"Fairly good horror","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this film last night.I wasn't expecting much as i didn't know it was on until the last minute, so i decided to give it a go.It turned out to be fairly good,as it definitely lived up to its title.The film is a little weird and very creepy it does have lots of suspense and it does at times have you on the edge of your seat.It frightened my son anyway.The film starts off with two teenagers a brother and sister returning from college.They drive past an old church and see a person putting a body down a well.They then do the unthinkable which is driving back to investigate,which you know they shouldn't do.But as you know this is a horror film and everyone in horror films always seem to do the most unlikely things.Anyway the horror starts from here.The acting is a little weird and a bit all over the place but it definitely suits the mood of the film.So the acting between the two teenagers comes across as very good as the film is rather freaky anyway.The film is entertaining all the way through and the ending is a bit disturbing.But its well worth watching if your a fan of the teen slasher type films. "},{"Title":"Good beginning become total clap trap by the end","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The beginning of this film had me very intrigued. The whole opening with the crows and the rusty killer's truck was great. Though I did have a problem with the part where the kid slides down into the killer's lair. He had just seen the killer dump a body into the same pipe and drive off and yet when he falls in he doesn't land on them (as he should) and the body is neatly layed up on a table (who the hell moved it?). The lair itself was very creepy and gave a feeling of dread as you realize this killer has been doing this for decades at the very least. But then they get to town and the whole movie turns to crap when the goofy psychic is introduced. I keep hearing this song while one of you is screaming (hey dumb psychic was it a male scream or a female one, they vary quite a bit). He wants one of you but I don't know which one. Then the killer turns out to be some creature with demon wings who eats parts of people to repair himself? What? How the hell does that work? He eats a heart, chewing it and everything and somehow it works perfectly when it arrives in his chest? Here's an idea, when writing a horror story remember to put some damn realism into your cheesy plot. It makes it easier to suspend disbelief if there is a feeling that it could be real.I'm not going to go all into it but other than the first 10-15 minutes I hated this film. The whole concept of the creature became totally idiotic by the time it was totally explained. And the ending... ergh... why would this creature carve out the entire back of the skull and remove the brain if he only wanted the eyes? Oh, he wouldn't. The director just wanted the creature to look through the face like a mask for the end scene is all. It makes no sense and is totally idiotic. I don't care what anyone else says this movie is a total dung pile. Not waiting for anything more by this nobody of a director. "},{"Title":"Waste","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was expecting this to be up there with recent horror flicks like ...Chainsaw and The Hills Have Eyes, but, boy was I disappointed. Two siblings are on their way home and take the long drive across country. It is here they run into The Creeper, a moth-like creature who awakes from hibernation every twenty-three years to feed on anyone he takes a liking to. Needless to say, he takes a liking to our heroes and the rest of the film is them trying to escape. The first twenty minutes of the film are quite creepy - with the exception of the annoying stupidity of the brother - what with only seeing The Creeper as a shadowy figure who drives a monstrous truck (in itself, very bizarre). The middle part of the film drags and quickly slips into predictable nonsense. The main problem is the villain. As soon as you see his face, any air of mystery or suspense disappears. If anyone remembers the early Tom Cruise film Legend, think the red demon played by Tim Curry - only more comedic. The special effects at best are passable, the acting okay and the script...predictable. And then the thing just ends, with not much as way of an explanation. I guess that means we have to watch the sequel (which I won't be doing). The very generous 3 mark is for the scene-setting first twenty minutes. Do yourselves a favor and don't bother. "},{"Title":"Good, scary entertainment","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the perfect at-home-late-at-night-with-popcorn movie. While the idea of a demon or some other evil creature whose sole purpose for existence is to eat human beings is a hackneyed one, the acting is quite good and the suspense builds throughout. What seems inexplicable to me is why the demon even needs a truck; he is able to fly and transport his victims to his pain castle. It makes for some interesting (and frightening) scenes, but, as is so often the case in movies of this genre, it raises too many questions Why didn't he just abandon the truck and fly to his quarry if he wanted to catch the kids in their car? He did this with the two cops he kills. Even more troublesome is the sad state of the police department, which has failed to notify the state police, the FBI, or other agencies that would be swarming into the area the moment people began disappearing; this is, after all, the eighteenth day of the demon's feeding frenzy and he's obviously been quite busy. While all this may detract from the continuity of the film, the results and suspense still warrant an overall positive review "}{"Title":"Could be worse","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was a disappointment. The first half of the movie leaves you in suspense, but the not-so inspired middle and end are less than adequate. It is too inconsistent throughout. example When the protagonists first see the demon/monster at the church it tosses several bodies down a pipe. When Darry falls into the pipe, there is only one evident body and it has moved out of the way of the pipe. Jeepers Creepers would have been much scarier if the villain was a psychotic man or a cannibal with the same habits as this bat out of hell. It has too much of a mix of Sci-fi and realism. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great suspenseful homage","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers 1 I feel was a great a smart and scary homage to the horror films of the 70's and 80's. It was full of great suspense. The lead actors really carried the movie well. The filming, writing and sound was fantastic. I was glad that they didn't go with famous actors. The Chemistry between the lead actors really helped sell how close they were and really made the fact that the sister would sacrifice herself for her bother that much more convincing. The movie did loose a little when there were many actors in the scenes but the move did hold on to the very end. I liked that it almost had a tales from the crypt type feel to it. I think it was a fantastic horror film. I think they really dropped the ball on the sequel. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this movie on TV at 2 am on a Sunday morn. I found it very interesting and it held my attention. If I were to rate it as a B movie I'd give it a 10. It made me long to see it at a drive-in which are non-existent in my area. I guess this won't get printed because I can't think of anything more to add. Well, here goes. I am not supposed to do this, according to the guidelines, but I agree with a previous commenter who said if I liked Screan I'd probably like this too. I thoroughly enjoyed Scream and even it's sequels. However I am NOT in the 12 to 16 age bracket. I think this is a good movie for anybody 12 and above. Children 11 and below would probably get nightmares from viewing it. "},{"Title":"great!!!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I loved this movie, second one too and can't wait for the next! It is the ONLY film that made my skin crawl since Alien, Aliens. I have always been a sci-fi film fan but rarely does one make me nervous, this one was funny, endearing, and scary all at once, and on a very low budget Florida countryside film. Hurry up with the next! I also saw goofs, but what the heck, the story was definitely original, the casting was great, for vertically unknown actors, stunts were out of this world (no pun intended)and the very thought of a dad and brother planning to take on an unknown flying monster to avenge their son/brother at great risk to their own lives just reinforces my hope for humanity. In this world where deadbeat dads and jail bait brothers don't give a crap for anything this was very touching. Especially guarding the thing in a barn only a few days shy of the next twenty-three year, twenty-three day slaughter.....hurry up with the next one! "},{"Title":"It Eats for 23 Days on Every 23rd Spring","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is about two siblings, Darry and Trish, who are going home after College. On their way, they've found something disturbing On a basement of a church, there are bodies everywhere that the Creeper, a creature who eats for 23 days on every 23rd Spring, killed. Now, the siblings are being chased by the Creeper, who wants something from one of them. The problem about these movies, yes there are already two, is that there could be hundreds of sequels. No matter how much you try to kill the Creeper, it will still get up and continue eating. Yes, you're safe for 23 years but it'll still come back after the 23 years. Another problem, in this film, is that people are kinda dumb. Not that dumb, but kinda dumb. This film is not scary nor thrilling but it's a good film that I actually recommend it for those who wants to see this film. There is little gore in this film, so don't get excited to see blood here and there and everywhere. The plot in this film is interesting, though. It's unique than any other teen slasher movies these days. If you are wanting to see a hopping good scary time, don't come crying to me when I warned you (that's mean this film isn't scary, if you didn't notice). "},{"Title":"Great Opening Scene, Goes A Little Downhill, But Overall Very Good.","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers starts off with a brother and a sister, Derry and Trish (played by Gina Philips and Justin Long) who are driving through the countryside together. As they pass an old abandoned church in a wooded area, they notice a cloaked man, throwing something wrapped in white sheets with blood stains down a storm drain. This obviously scares them, and as they try and speed up to get out of there as fast as possible, the guy pulls up in his giant truck, running them off the road. They decide to go back to the church to make sure that one of the people being thrown down the drain wasn't alive (dumb, dumb, dumb), and Derry falls down the drain. From there, he discovers a mass graveyard beneath the church, and the cloaked figure, which is actually a creature who feeds on human body parts, hunts them down.The beginning of this film was truly chilling. The image of the cloaked figure throwing bloody bodies down the storm drain was just plain creepy. After seeing that, I was thinking, Okay, this is going to be really scary. But from that point on, things went down hill a little, and the story became less and less believable. The thing about movies of this type is, once you fully show the audience the creature, the movie loses it's mystique. We've seen the creature now, and it's not nearly as scary as it would have been if they showed it later on in the film (or perhaps not at all). It's scarier when you don't know exactly what it is. But besides the fact, it's a pretty good horror film involving a monster, considering most creature flicks are corny and cheap, and the makeup effects were really good. Standard clichés abound (especially during the What if it was you back there? scene, which kind of had me rolling my eyes), but I wasn't expecting it to be cliché-free. Another interesting and creepy scene was the cat lady sequence, it felt like something from a Stephen King book in my opinion. It was mysterious and kind of random, but I thought it was a nice addition to the story. The acting in the movie was all pretty good. Gina Philips is an excellent actress, I think she's pretty underrated, actually. Justin Long is her quirky but funny brother Derry, and is also good. As for the ending of the film - it wasn't great, but it was creepy and a little disturbing.All in all, Jeepers Creepers had a great opening scene that set up for a good horror movie, and while it did go downhill a bit, it had some excellent moments and a refreshing story. Don't expect a slasher movie though, it's more of a creature-feature, with some slasher elements mixed in. It has it's problems, but it's entertaining and definitely worth seeing. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Everything you'd expect from a low-to-no budget horror film.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I wasn't interested in seeing this movie when it first came out in 2001.I wouldn't of liked it when it did came out back 5 years ago.Jeeper Creepers is about a teenage brother and teenage sister who don't like they're related. Cause I kept thinking of them as a couple than relationship.They're driving the countryside on a road with almost no cars at all.Till a mysterious old truck comes by and try to make their car crash.After a near escape the brother wants to know what is up with that Driver that nearly killed them.They trace the truck to an abandon church. The brother explores around till he find a large pipe which he decides to enter. His sister tells him not to but he didn't listen. Once he was down at the bottom, he discovers the basement to be a hell like place. Something he wouldn't expect the truck driver to be doing.And the truck driver himself is not what he appears to be.This movie is close from being crappy. Good side not as stupid as the Saw movies. Down side it needed a better direction. So not on my best horror film list. If you you like low budget horror flicks, then see about renting this movie. But don't expect it to be very great. "},{"Title":"A good,exciting horror movie","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a fantastic horror movie.The ideas put in to the movie are great,it was all tho small little things which made this film great entertainment especially the song part which tells you the person is coming and loads of little clues and parts all come in to the film at parts making it great.The acting was very believable and with the main actors not been known so much added to it making it more believable. Overall a Jeepers Creepers is an exciting very scary horror movie its a must see. And the reason the movie didn't get a 10 is because the ending was a little disappointing and I'm sure even tho there's another film to come the directer could of come up with more cliffhanger approach to the end. "},{"Title":"above average horror film","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let's face it, Jeepers Creepers wasn't meant to be a masterpiece. But in terms of creepiness and originality, Director Victor Salva definitely came up with a wicked little gem that despite some of it's flaws, still becomes one of those horror films that get you thinking.A brother/sister combo are driving through rural country when they see what looks like a transient throwing bodies in a sink hole.What they find out later is that the murderer turns out to be an ancient demon that only lives for 23 days every 23 years.But in those 23 days, it feeds it's insatiable hunger on the surrounding citizens.Good news is, the Creeper is a discriminate killer, only going after certain humans it smells out and of course killing those that try to get out of it's way.The stunning ending shows you why the demon relentlessly chases after the hero's.Veteran actresses Eileen Brennan and Patricia Belcher were thrown into the cast in different scenarios Brennan got one of the creepier scenes as the Cat Lady whom the hero's come in contact with on the lam from the Creeper. But Belcher is overwhelmingly annoying as the psychic Jezelle, who sheds light on what the killer is after.The plot is uneven at times, but for sheer horror, Jeepers Creepers often delivers the goods. "},{"Title":"A Good First Half, A Less-Than-Satisfying Ending","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Enjoyable but only if you don't expect too much. The journey, particularly its early stages, is far more exciting than the destination.It starts off as with a near-perfect setup. Two completely believable, squabbling siblings catch sight of the unexpected, pursue it and find horror beyond imagining. Our heroes spot what looks like a body being disposed of, investigate and find a by-God monster.The transition from what appears to be a reality-based crime in progress to out-and-out nightmare is well done and extremely satisfying. Unfortunately the climax isn't all that climactic and the resolution fizzles.I was left feeling less than satisfied. Fortunately, I didn't know that writer/director Victor Salva is a registered sex offender--and a stupid one; he made the mistake of filming himself having sex with a 12 year-old actor--before I watched the film and therefore was able to view it without prejudice.To summarize The best recommendation I can make is to tell you to watch the first half--and then imagine your own ending. It will probably be more inventive than the actual one. Berkeley Hunt Studio City "}{"Title":"Scary As Hell!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I watch this film about a year ago I was stunned. The film stays in your head for a long time and you think about the events what happens in the movie. Till that day when I saw the film I seen nothing like it. Two college students set out to go see their parents but on the way they come across the most terrifying evil force for them and the views (for me). The demon has to feed every 23 years but for the unlucky students is next on his menu. They are defenceless against the demon and no one can stop him. There's a good twist at the end to finish a classic horror off. This is a must see film. It has the added humour but overall the movie is top. 8/10 must see "},{"Title":"Unpleased watcher","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie is pretty scary, I agree. This is, anyway, everything it means. Subject is thin, scenes remember X-files and Tales from the Crypt. The message is the thing I didn't see! Humans are not flies hunted by spiders, they fight back! I recommend this movie only to those willing to make their friends nervous!  "},{"Title":"Marvelous teen-shocker shocker generating agonising suspense!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two American students do battle with a demon which feeds on human flesh in order to replace its body parts, the creature known as The Creeper selects its victims by frightening them and feeds on those who are scared the most.Marvelous teen-shocker in which the director Victor Salva shows admirable skill in generating suspense with agonising tension and shock sequences.An equally entertaining sequel JEEPERS CREEPERS 2 followed in 2003. "},{"Title":"Good horror *spoilers*","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Moved from another account'Jeepers Creepers' is a good horror film that works well, particularly in the first half. The opening chase scene resembles 'The Hitcher' and although the dialogue is poor at times the enigmatic nature of the 1st half of the film is very good, and suspenseful. Although 'Jeepers Creepers' falls into a couple of cliches, e.g. when the two teens go back to investigate instead of going to find help and the 'if this were a horror movie' line.The second half sees 'Jeepers Creepers' lose it's way slightly as The Creeper is revealed. With movie monsters it is very very difficult to make the monster look satisfactory, with many they are a disappointment, the only example i can think of a great movie monster is 'Alien'. So that begs the question, why reveal it so early in the film (approximately halfway through)? I dont know the answer to that. Maybe if the creeper had been held back longer the effect would have been greater. Nevertheless this is a good film with some scary moments. The song 'Jeepers Creepers' appears to have no lyrical connection to the film or any of it's characters, until the end when it becomes clear. Enjoyable. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Horror Bouilliabasse","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are some really terrible horror films made, especially in recent years. But this isn't bad. It has a couple extrememly effective scenes. I think it would have been much better to make the thing a human and not an extra terrestial or demon or whatever its supposed to be. You put in aliens and you've lost me. That can't happen, and as soon as you've injected the impossible into it, I'm no longer frightened. A sick hillybilly would have been much scarier, but I guess sick hillbillys cant fly. The guy I thought did a good job with being scared close to madness, and he was actually making me nervous at one point. The female lead of course must be the stronger of the two and she was, I think that's etched in stone somewhere in Burbank. She was a total hottie, but must have learned how to act in a lumber yard. No gratuitous horror nudity, and with the overall failure of it as a scary movie, I'm afraid the absence of any nudity prevents my recommending this film.  They need to redo Slingblade as a horror film, and then redo Friday the 13th as a human interest study. And they call me mad! "},{"Title":"Execrable Rubbish","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having watched Jeepers Creepers last night I can quite honestly say it was one of the worst let downs, and indeed movies full stop, of cinematic history. The only thing in the film that was even remotely creepy was the van that the Creeper drove. I am considering suing the friend that made me to watch it for wasting a good hour and a half of my life. The plot was entirely predictable, and half of it didn't even make sense. Loose ends were left everywhere, and the acting was diabolical. The constant expression of horror on Justin Long's face actually left me wondering if he'd a botched botox job halfway through filming. Gina Phillips put up a vaguely acceptable performance, only escaping the judgement of appalling because the atrocious offence to cinema leading the film with her made her expressions of horror look a little better than they were. The set design was pretty basic, but acceptable, the camera work was repetitive and unimaginative, and the script itself must have been written by a drunk, drug addled 7 year old Mongolian with a limited grasp of the English language. I cannot urge you enough, do not see this film. "},{"Title":"A Different Flavor of Horror.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not my favorite horror film of all time, maybe not even in my top fifteen .. . but the Creeper does have his own set of charm that other movie monsters seem to lack.  I'll take JC or JC2 over any F13 any day of the week (with the exception of FvsJ).  Jeepers Creepers is kind of a quirky horror flick with a quirky horror monster and it doesn't quite work but at the same time it feels right at home as though this is the way the film was meant to be seen.  I love it for its quirkiness, and the fact that it is, indeed, old school, old fashioned, always reliable movie monster mayhem.I like the Creeper and his film because while it does share many horror/slasher film trademarks, it's its own film and drifts at its own pace doing things its own way .  If you count the Creeper as a spinoff monster, he's really a composite of a number of concepts and not a straight rip-off .. . in the end he is one of the more original creatures to emerge from Hollywood (especially lately), on par with or more so than `cult' film monsters such as Leatherface and Voorhees.The Creeper actually has a personality and we actually see the Creeper struggling a little more realistically and even if it is humorous seeing the big bad monster limp, the touch of realism is appreciated.  People may bash JC for such elements as not being `scary' but unstoppable and never-showing-pain Jason Voorhees hasn't *ever* been scary.  Besides, all the elements--as over the top and out there as they may seem--feel like they belong in Jeepers Creepers to define who and what the Creeper is.  Not to the extent of Krueger (in Craven's first Elm Street outing, which is a better film) but the Creeper does have far more expression and is more entertaining to watch than the likes of Leatherface and Voorhees combined. I can only take so much of a moving mannequin in a dirty hockey mask picking off the same characters film after film.And Jeepers' very premise permits infinite sequels unlike other series that promise to kill off the villain for good (yeah right.)  Victor Salva has the balls to come out and tell you that straight faced and doesn't bother taking us for idiots in saying, `No really. . . this time we're going to kill him for real.'  For that, I speak on behalf of many horror fans in saying, THANK YOU!JC's victims, again, while standard horror meat for the butcher, has just enough spice to give them a slightly different flavor.  It's nice to see a nice little sibling relationship at the heart of a film versus a love interest with lots and lots of sex and exposed skin as if that's supposed to make us care about the characters.  Here we have a chance at giving a damn. Also, we have no clear cut `hero.'  We have people scared out of their minds and not wanting to be a badass and `finish this for all.'  I choke every time that comes up in horror now.  Another point or two to JC.  We do have stupid decisions, but hey, that's horror for you.Jeepers Creepers will not appeal to too many people.  It does not obey and follow the handbook on slasher films that Friday the 13th defined and follows religiously through every freakin' redundant film it pumps out. It doesn't religiously follow any formula to a T, and takes enough liberties to call itself its own movie.  Jeepers does set out and accomplishes more than most so-called cult classics of the horror genre, much to my dismay. Maybe that's why many 'hardcore' horror fans won't like it? "},{"Title":"DVD Easter Egg Hunt","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With JC2 freshly-arrived, I decided to buy the original on DVD and watch it over Labor Day weekend.  I liked the first one (haven't yet seen the sequel).  Can anyone help me, though, in finding the easter eggs for some of the bonus features?  The DVD case says that an alternate opening/ending of the film is on the disc along with several mini-documentaries, but these extras aren't listed on the disc's menu.  There's gotta be hidden easter eggs.  I'm able to highlight one of the sewn threads on the main menu page, but can't activate it.  Help me?  Thanks for taking the time. "},{"Title":"Ambiguity + Weak Characters + Monster = Fun - Spoilers","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spoliers - don't read my comments about the movie if you don't want to know stuff . . . about the movie . . . that I am writing about.Jeepers Creepers is a big giant bouillabaisse of monster driven entertainment centering around a boy, a girl, a silly old woman and a big mean monster that does all kinds of crazy stuff by a very tight turntable for no apparent reason.Bouillabaisse - noun -  A combination of various different, often incongruous elements or a highly seasoned stew made of several kinds of fish and shellfish.The movie centers around a demon thing that likes to eat people and only comes out for 23 days every 23 springs or so, for some reason.  Why?  Did he drowned in a lake?  Did he watch his parents die in a terrible car accident? Nope.  He comes out every 23 springs for 23 days just because.  It should also be noted that during this time he eats like he hasn't eaten for 23 years.Why does he only eat every 23 years?  Most likely because he was waiting at the DMV the rest of the time trying to get those wacky vanity plates for his vehicle that, I am assuming, if he only drives it every 23 years is most likely not registered or insured.  That is a violation of the law.The boy and girl play up the whole sibling thing real good.  When I saw the movie I was like, man, that was real good.  They act like real brothers and sisters act - treating each other like crap but continuing to care in some sort of way that can only result from being around people you really don't like all your life.The only real killer of the movie is the silly old woman.  She spends the whole movie going rar, I'm a silly old woman and doing all kinds of silly woman things like calling people on payphones and warning them of impending death.  She spends the whole movie doing this over and over again.  So what happens after two hours of going you are doomed, it's gonna eat you and stuff?  What happens after two hours of people thinking you are full of silly stuff only to find out you really were telling the truth in some obfuscated and wacky sort of way?  What happens after you tried to save lives but ignorant people ended up dying anyway?  Oh that's easy.  Once everyone has suffered unbearable tragedy and heartbreak and finally want to know the truth you brush them off entirely by going no one listens to me. I'm a silly old woman.Then there is the monster.  My sister-in-law swore up and down that this was Shaq but I knew better because Shaq plays for the Lakers so I patted her head in a condescending way and went there, there.Overall, a good movie if you like binge eating monsters from the fiery depths, brothers and sisters that don't like each other until one is dead, and a silly old woman that tries to warn you of impeding death for two hours only to brush you off when death comes around.I rate this movie a B- but a B- that doesn't hurt too bad, like if you got your B- in penmanship and not math. "},{"Title":"Atypical","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Usually, a horror film begins with two people and within the first five minutes, kills them. Then, we meet the real main character and his or her friends. Then, his or her friends gradually die. Before we know it, the movie is over because all of the friends are dead - boo hoo. Once in a while, in a cruel, shocking twist of fate, the main character will suddenly realize that they have not defeated the villain and will immediately proceed to be killed. Then the movie really ends. The audience is sort of upset, confused, and feels like eating ice cream. Go America.Jeepers Creepers is a different breed of horror film. It doesn't try to startle you, because it knows it can't. When people watch horror films, they know something is going to happen. They know somebody's got to die, that something is going to pop out, etc. This film often makes you wait whatever that is. You are always thinking that something will happen, even when there is a perfectly good explanation for it not to happen.This movie isn't overloaded with people who you know are going to get killed. In fact, there are only 16 credited cast members (there might be some extras, and there are a lot of stunt people). This movie doesn't even have the typical `funny' guy who provides the film's comic element to lighten the mood in order to scare you again. (This is the same `funny' guy who dies all the time.) Instead, the film lightens the mood with a dark sense of humor. (I can only remember the final sequence, however, so take that last statement lightly.)When I saw the preview for this movie, I thought it looked like some kind of lame teen Disney scary movie. I didn't pay attention to the commercials. However, when the Jeepers Creepers 2 previews started circulating, I thought it looked like a pretty decent movie. Especially because of the part where the kid is looking at the scarecrow and then the its actually the creature and he turns his head. Anyway, I went on Joblo, read about it, and found out that the original movie had somewhat of a cult following. Hence, I acquired the movie, watched it, and enjoyed it.  "}{"Title":"Straight-Ahead Monster Fun","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A simple story that leaves lots of unanswered questions.  Your basic demon roaming rural America.  The occasional severed head.  Yay!I love monster movies, and that's all this is.  Sure, it's not terribly original.  Sure, plenty of it is predictable.  Sure, this isn't exactly Citizen Kane.But sometimes, you just want a flesh-rending, neck-biting, eye-gouging, scaly monster, and this movie is perfect for that frame of mind.  As a long-time fan of monster movies, a guy who has sat through entire Godzilla marathons, I give this one two claws up.I rented the DVD from Netflix; I hadn't seen this one until today, and I figured I'd watch it before I bothered taking a chance on the sequel.  Yes, I'm going to spend money on Jeepers Creepers II.  It's fun.  I didn't get bored.  Stuff happened.  Yay stuff.I give it 637,842 Golden Slop Buckets. "},{"Title":"pILe oF sH*t","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What kind of age are we living in when a sack of sh*t like this can pass as a horror movie?JEEPERS CREEPERS is basically a dumb episode of The Twilight Zone directed by a convicted paedophile, with dreadful dialogue, appalling acting and an embarrassingly predictable ending.Expect at least 2 sequels. "},{"Title":"READ BETWEEN THE LINES!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay so it's completely obvious that this film is not meant to be taken at face value and any person that thinks that it should. Couldn't grasp the concept of the very original fear that it exploits.  I'm not saying it's the greatest film ever but it is a very good one.  The basic premise goes something like this. Two siblings traveling cross country back home find themselves stalked by a monster after witnessing him or it dispossing bodies down a large pipe into a cavern.  They're relentlessly pursued through the entire film and run into some down home cliches and some silly ones to lighten the mood but all in all the film is very atmospheric and only when the creature shows it's true face does the film lose a little edge. However, let's talk what this film is really about. I hate to bring this up because Victor Salva is indeed a very talented guy but back in the 80's he made a film called clownhouse.  He was caught molesting a young boy, the film's star. Because he recorded it on film. Now these are truly the actions of a disturbed individual. However through the yrs. he's been through counselinhg and has been dealt justice by the system.  Now so many years later it still haunts him. Now they say that people express them selves through there artwork.  Now let's take a look at this This film. It's about a brother and sister the brother of course who is underlyingly gay(a rose tattoo above his belly button and tainted dialogue) whom is stalked and chosen by what it seems to be an older man in a long dirty trench coat. The film builds to a climax where (SPOILER AHEAD) the creeper must choose between the both of them and moves off with the boy.  And than the disturbing ending an abandoned warehouse where a young boy screams grotesquely and the creeper taking something from him, his eyes and the creeprs eye replacing his. Examine this. Now thats pretty scary wheather he did it intentionally or subconciously there's some very intense psychological issues about this film that need to be obtained to truly enjoyed it. Now to everyone who thought it was ok or that it sucked. I ask that you give it another look with a new frame of mind and prep yourself for some chills. "},{"Title":"Dreary teen horror bumbles along to little avail.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's hard to believe that `Jeepers Creepers' was produced by Oscar winner/directorial icon Francis Ford Coppolla. But it's not surprising that his name is presented in big block capital letters on the front cover of the video box. After all, there's nothing else on offer that anyone's ever heard of. As a producer, this is Coppolla's weakest effort. The genre of the teen horror movie is the least to receive critical acclaim. So, in fairness, `Jeepers Creepers' is not the worst of them (`Urban Legends Final Cut' anyone?). But the `could-be-worse' factor is far from enough to recommend this. Of course there is the occasional shred of originality to be found here and there.  The protagonists of the movie are brother and sister, so the tedious sex appeal is down. The bogeyman itself has an original look but is woefully un-intimidating. Acting is fairly flat all round. Gina Phillips and Justin Long look the parts, but all they do is look bewildered and scream. The plot bumbles along in typically brainless fashion only to reach a bad ending. The thing is, it doesn't reach a conclusion- it just&#133; stops. A story that can't be finished is one that never should have been attempted in the first place.Teen horror movies aren't supposed to match up to `The Wizard of Oz', but there are better ones out there than this. If you've seen several, if not countless, others from this genre in the past, then give `Jeepers Creepers' a miss. It's not absolute drivel, but it's pretty damn close. Try slightly better ones like `Scream' or `I Know What You Did Last Summer' instead. My IMDb rating 4.1/10.   "},{"Title":"one or the other","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" On their way home from college and driving through the middle of nowhere, a bickering brother and sister duo are intrigued by what they perceive to be an apparent murder. They stop to investigate, but eventually get much more than they bargained for when they find themselves eluding a mysterious, flesh-eating creature with a tangible penchant for their skin. Not bad horror film gives you two choices sit back and go along for the ride, which has plenty of thrills if you do, or stop and question the inane actions of its seemingly clueless characters. Decide for yourself, but the ending falls short of real satisfaction either way. **½ "},{"Title":"Another pitifully bad new horror movie.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Man, I am so tired of these horribly bad, no gore, no violence, new-fresh-faced-straight-off-the-cover-of-Maxim-filled cast, dumbed-down, trendy horror movies.  I hate America's standards today.  It's okay to show gratuitous sex scene after gratuitous sex scene (which I have NO problem with), but you can't even show somebody getting stabbed anymore.  So, they have to make it psychologically scary, which those probably teenage, still living with their parents, no-talent hack screenwriters can't get right.  I'm not going to even review the plot of this piece of rectal celluloid because that's just what it is.  I thought this movie was going to be somewhat good, because Clive Barker, yes, Barker, a man whom I have much respect for as a horror writer, recommended it (right on the cover!).  This film was mindless, Scream generation poop.  Watch the 3rd Children of the Corn instead. "},{"Title":"This movie stole 90 minutes of my life!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst movies I have EVER seen. When I saw this I hadn't heard much about it. After 10 minutes from when I popped it in the VCR, it all started to go down hill. It was good...but only for the first 10 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this Movie on Pay Tv last night me and my brother thought ok we will watch it. So we watched it and my brother liked it, but I thought it was good but it could have been better but still a good movie. I hope NO2 is going to be good as well.  "},{"Title":"A nonsensical horror movie that scares","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a horror movie that scares and that's it. I can't say much for the acting and the script needed a lot of work. The beginning was slow and not all too important to the story. It has all the cliches of a normal horror movie like cars that won't start when the heroes are being chased by the boogie-man (Phillips can't get HER car out of gear! C'mon if it's HER car she SHOULD known how to drive it!), stupid teenagers doing stupid things, police gore fests, and being predictable as far as who's gonna survive. Unfortunately there was very little character development and the ending seemed rushed and thrown together to make up for the lost time in the beginning. The worst thing about the movie was that you actually saw the boogie-man instead of keeping him mysterious (yet not too mysterious like in Blair Witch Project). So all in all my recommendation for the movie is SEE IT! Unfortunately you'll only want to see it once because once you know all the scary parts there's nothing left to keep you hooked into the movie(Or if you have seen it you might see it again with your friends so you can see their faces during the scary moments or scare them in other parts of the movie, hehehe). "},{"Title":"Sshhivvers down your spine!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS on the wayHere's a film that will haunt you for a long time regardless you see it alone at midnight or with friends around.To cut the long story short Darius and Patricia go back home driving and on the way they see a dark silhouette throwing sheet-covered things down a pipe. It sees them in its turn and follows them. From that moment on, the two siblings are marked for death.PROs 1. The first half of the movie is EXCELLENT! I can hardly wait for such films that keep me tense in such a way... 2. Great performances from Philips and Long (though he expresses his horror open-mouthed too often). 3. Perfect pace, rhythm and editing.CONs 1. I didn't understand the use of those scenes where The Creeper performs acrobatic figures over Trish's car. 2. If The Creeper could turn into a flyer, why didn't he use this skill all the time. I would have...  3. When Darry and Trish first spot The Creeper and they both watch him intensely, how come their car never hits a tree because they didn't mind the driving?Obvious rip-offs from The Duel, Clive Barker's writings (especially Books of Blood) and Return of the Living Dead (They're coming to get you, Barbara) - similar incipites.All in all, a good horror with 8 points out of 10, flawed here and there, but still watchable if you want to have a sleepless night. "}{"Title":"Quite a laughable horror movie","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers creepers indeed. A brother and a sister head home for vacation and encounter a monstrous creature of sorts seemingly pushing two body bags down a chute. Obviously in true movie tradition, the youngsters after getting battered with the monsters truck still have the nerve to head back to the place where the chute was. As a horror movie in its essence there are some moments of redemption. However, issues like how the demonic creature is able to drive a truck so well are all too frequent.  The creature it seems needs some human parts to survive, and so goes in hunt of those who will satisfy the requirements. The acting is a bit stilted and by the end I was more than agitated at what had preceeded. Only for those die hard horror fans where anything goes; the movie otherwise is a bit on the laughable side. "},{"Title":"Really interesting, with a uncommon ending","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is really well-done, because it's awesome and has an intelligent history. The two main actors work wonderfully and make you feel as they were really passing for those situations. The ending made me a few confused, because was almost non-finishing as you always see. The monster wasn't killed, the good guys didn't win. That was well-planed too. Such a great history, such a great beginning, such a great ending. Such a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Poor acting or direction spoils this film","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I could not finish this one and so cannot comment on the plot.  It seemed like it might have had some potential.  What might have saved this movie was the excellent cinematography and sets.  But despite some initially good performances, the whole thing just does not take off.  I gave up around the cop car chase sequence and was leaning heavily on the Fast Forward long before that. "},{"Title":"Great movie, ending was disappointing *minor spoilers*","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The element that really saves the movie is the acting between the brother and sister, they really are convincing and you do care about what happens to them.  The monster design could've been better, when fully clothed it does look scary and creepy even during the day but the movie did show too much of it and it didn't look that scary once you see it without the clothes. The mystery and plot that was building up had a great pace and they managed to keep it interesting but after the second half it all went tumbling down and just transformed into an average b-flick. Some scenes were just stupid (the cop looking at the hole in his chest before dying, the unnecessary old lady with visions, the very fake looking effect when flying away at the end)and the ending seemed incomplete.  The movie does deserve watching and the extra features on the DVD are great. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Disappointing","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is no doubt that I like movies of all kinds.  From Oscar nominees/winners to action, cult classics, and the occasional chick flick...my tastes vary.  But, I'm a sucker for a good scary/horror movie.  That being said, I don't mind the inevitable cheese that is bound to accompany most, if not all, of the horror genre.  Jeepers Creepers was seemingly a step away from the Scream clones and back to a more simpler time when horror movies were appreciated for what they were...cheese included.  The movie starts out great, building up suspense, dragging the viewer along for the ride and carelessly pulling us every which direction.Unfortunately, like far too many films, it then suddenly crumbled.  Rather than keeping this a thrill-for-all, it did the worst you can try to do in the horror genre  create some type of plot and/or explanation.  I don't know when the directors/filmmakers are going to realize that in so many horror movies, the absence of reason and logic makes it all the more appealing...not to mention scary.  Around 30 minutes into the movie, my attention was lost and discovered I had more fun shoving toothpicks in my gums than watching this movie.  The entertainment value had become nil.For the first 25 minutes or so of the movie, it earns a remarkable 4 of 5 stars.  But due to it's poor climax and ending, I can't give this movie, overall, anything more than 1 1/2 stars.  Yes, it was *that* bad.  "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I hate this movie like I hated no other film people kept talking about scary it was but I've seen more scary stuff on All In The Family and that ending was not only stupid but laughable as the was the whole movie the only one who did any real acting was Jonthan Breck maybe because he had no talking the rest of the acting was well there was no acting in other words THIS MOVIE SUCKS! RATED R FOR VIOLENCE AND LAUGAUGE "},{"Title":"Jeepers, non-horror fans really give me the creepers!!!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It seems that there's a lot of people out there who go to watch a horror movie only to tell others afterwards how silly and not scary it was, or to gloat about how they figured out the ending before the movie ended (wow, what mental prowess, figuring out a horror movie's ending, way-to-go kiddies!!!). Honestly, if you don't like horror movies, go see the new Vin Diesel flick, or some other piece of rubbish.Possible spoilers aheadHere we have a rather original horror movie with two likeable leads (brother and sister, so no sex, sorry John Public...), a truly scary villain (ooo, what's its motivation, what drives it to kill people...honestly, did Jaws need a motivation for eating Robert Shaw???), some really tense scenes (even when the creature is revealed in all its latex glory,  it was still chilling) and a non-formulaic ending (admittingly I didn't like the ending only because I actually cared for the characters and wanted them to survive their ordeal).There's no virgins running around in the woods in satin undies, no black cats jumping out of closets/waste bins, no flaky-looking CGI monster-effects and no kill-the-badguy/jump-when-he-comes-back-to-life schtick. But still the public complains about horror-cliches (if people in horror movies didn't go to investigate the strange clang, creak or spooky drain pipe, it wouldn't be a horror movie and it would probably have starred Morgan Freeman...) Honestly, isn't spotting a tired-old cliche a cliche in itself???I found Jeepers Creepers to be a fresh spin on the genre, with no big names or big effects, only pure horror at its best. Admittingly, I wished it ran a bit longer to flesh out the role of the psychic lady or to add maybe another tense scene or two. But still, if you like your horror smart, but not too smart as to become satirical, then give this a try.Just keep it away from the non-horror fans...poor devils! "},{"Title":"An impressive addition to the genre","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *I'm pretty sure there's no spoilers ahead, but just in case I'll give my SPOILER WARNING*After renting the merely adequate Darkness Falls, I was glad to see this solid, tension-filled horror flick that delivers the goods.  The movie did surprisingly well at the box office, and critics and audiences have been raving about it, so I was wondering what all the fuss was about.  This is definitely not your standard teen slasher.  First of all, I admire the choice of focusing on two characters.  As the two characters are developed, we became quite attached to them, and when we finally see them in peril--we care!!  Often in these types of movies, we're faced with an ensemble of characters, who are each one-dimensional.  So instead of clenching onto the edge of our seats, hoping they don't die, we're actually waiting to see how they get killed.  But in this case, the characters are well-developed and they're brother and sister.  This way there's no cheap, gushy romantic moments.  The two of them love and care for each other, but not in a romantic way.  The acting is good.  Yes, I'm discussing a horror movie and admiring the acting.  This is no misprint.  The two lead actors each express great emotion, and we really feel their terror.  The movie has a unique approach, because it's intelligent and clever, yet it doesn't go for camp.  This campy horror approach sometimes works, but there's so many of these types of films that the line between horror and comedy is beginning to get blurred.  There are self-referential moments, like when Darry goes into the pipe and his sister says, You know, this is one of those moments that they show in scary movies where the character does something stupid and everyone hates him for it! and when she runs over the killer and Darry asks, Is he dead?  She replies, They never are, and continues to run him over a couple more times.  For all this time, I've been waiting for characters to really give it to the villain, completely making sure he or she is dead, and that moment has finally come.  So I thank Victor Salva for that.  But these moments aren't done with a heavy hand.  The film has spurts of comic relief, but all in all it treats the horror genre with seriousness and respect.Jeepers Creepers isn't perfect.  There is some annoying dialogue and I wanted to know more about the killer's motives, but other than that this is a solid horror-thriller.  And I admire the ending, which also isn't standard in the horror genre.  Salva, who directed the poignant drama Powder, is truly a talented director and hopefully he'll be recognized for his talent and not for his past as a sex offender.  I've said several times  if we only leaned towards artists who are normal, we wouldn't watch movies or listen to music period.  My score  7 (out of 10)           "},{"Title":"Where'd You Get Those Peepers","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I guess telling you anything remotely substantive and informing about this horror film would be telling you too much about the genre itself; being that I am working on a book on just this type of film and filmmaking in general, I can't tell you too much about where Jeepers' plot originally hailed from in the history of movies (hint this movie is based more on a particular 70s telefilm, rather than any big-screen movie ever released then or since).And who cares if I don't give away any spoilers.  Plainly speaking this horror film is the story about a brother-and-sister team who ride cross-country, become too nosy, throw caution completely to the wind and, because of their refusal to listen to their self-preserving voice of logic, all rural hell breaks loose.There, satisfied?  I didn't reveal too much, but even if you've already seen the thirty-year-old telefilm, there are still new and exciting things in store for you in this 2001 update.  Oh and keep your eyes open for at least one 70s decade comedienne playing a cat-lady (ie someone who doesn't mind living with the smell of feline urine). "},{"Title":"I feel sorry for anyone who thinks this deserves a sequel","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was without a doubt, horror at it's worst. When I first saw the previews for this movie I thought it would be pretty good. The only thing that kept me from seeing it in the theatre was being busy when it was in the local area.I saw it last year when a friend brought it to me. Needless to say I'm glad I didn't spend a single red cent to see it. This wouldn't have even been good as a B-rated movie. And I think B-rated movies are gold.The plot was terrible, the special effects weren't that good, and the ending left me very displeased. It was like they ran out of funding and said ok, lets just weasel out of this as quick as we can... do we have time to change our names on the production listing?Don't be tempted by any review that says that this movie is worth watching. This flick is like Charlie's Angels minus the gratuitous T and A. Pure crap. The difference is that I actually watched Jeepers Creepers to the end.I would probably have been easier on this flick if it came out in 1974 or something. But the fact that it came out in 2001, I say Shame on you Hollywood for allowing this lousy film to ooze through your protective filter that keeps pure crap off the big screen. "}{"Title":"decent movie, bad reviews","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  overall i was very impressed with this movie......sure, there were a few pretty silly little things the writer/director added on, sure there were a few of those lame scenes that horror fans will be used to. you know, when you sit there and say to yourself what are you THINKING!! get the hell out of there!! but c'mon!! what did you expect out of a horror movie that had such a wide release these days? if i was going to compare it to the evil dead, suspiria, the exorcist, the omen, night of the living dead, or texas chainsaw massacre i'd say it was cheesy, but compared to 99% of the absolute garbage with terrible computer effects thats released these days it sure was a breath of fresh air. i don't know what the rest of these people were expecting when they rented/watched this movie, but i'm not surprised by the bad reviews simply because the general viewing public's taste is so terrible. i give this movie 6.5 out of 10. if you want suspense rent halloween, if you want gore, rent dead-alive, but if you're looking for a fun horror movie with effects that aren't too bad, rent jeepers creepers. "},{"Title":"Is the an episode of Goosebumps???!!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My kids watch better stuff on Fox Kids! The creeper looks like a dodgey character from Goosebumps only Goosebumps is more scary... complete crap! I too had read the comments promising a good movie and luckily there was a good supply of other films out at the time of cinema release that kept me from seeing it on big screen. Even luckier was the fact that I avoid buying the DVD to watch this. I finally watched this on satellite and couldn't believe how bad it was.. I was completely stunned when the credits rolled at what feeled like half way through the film (probably did me a favour as it was getting worse by the second). "},{"Title":"Good, for a while","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For the first hour or so, Jeepers Creepers is an interesting, creepy, even innovative two-person horror chase with an unsettling villain and several genuinely unnerving scenes.  After the Creeper discards his hat and coat and his true nature is revealed, however, it quickly falls apart.  The monster suit may be well-designed, but it just isn't that sort of movie, and the truck-driving, bat-winged, trenchcoat-clad Creeper is far more disturbing when seen in the half-light of a cornfield at night, or the shade of a tree outside a rotting church, than he is in full view during the finale inside the police station.  It could have been good.  For a while, it was.  Judging from the previews, it looks as if they've screwed things up in a similar manner in the sequel. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was looking at the DVD case to Jeepers Creepers and it said something like the best horror film of the last 10 years well when i watched it i say not but i give Candyman the best horror film of the last 10 years.There northing much in this film what has been done before like duel roadkill or if american joyride.The film is about 2 people driving in the countryside on there way home when then upon a dark looking strange man with a lorry dumping something into this hole and then being spoted then the thing chase them with his dirty looking lorry. Don't want to spoil the film anymore but this film is worth watching on a boring night with northing to do.People say this film got suspence i don't think so if you want suspence go and watch JOHN CARPENTER'S HALLOWEENgiving this film 5/5This is my 50th film review take a look in my profile "},{"Title":"Frustratingly unbalanced","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are as many exhilirating, edge-of-your-seat moments in Jeepers Creepers as there are cliched, hum drum Hollywood horror moments, and it is the former that makes the latter seem all that worse. Let's start off with the good stuff.  The first half hour of the film is undoubtedly the most promising setup that I have seen in a horror flick in quite a long time.  There are some wicked-awesome shots employed and the tension is crafted perfectly.  There is some nice yack-yack between the bro and sis, to boot (even if it is a bit runny at times).  And what the brother and sister discover is truly disturbing. Unfortunately, this is where everything falls.  With all of the directions that the movie could have taken at this point, the writer/director chose to go for the freaky/crazy, rather than the more subtle, psychological build up that the first hour both executes and promises.  I felt blue balled.  By the last half hour, I felt like shutting the film off, but decided that I should stick with it only because the first half was so gnarly. You decide for youself.  7/10 ONLY because the intro is some of the strongest horror I've seen since Texas Chainsaw Massacre.   "},{"Title":"not sure what to think","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've seen a lot of horror movies such as The Exorcist, Halloween, Scream, House on Haunted Hill (newer version and parts of the older version), The Haunting, The Sixth Sense, Resident Evil and lots more, and I would just barely consider this movie to be a horror film. There was one person on here who compared it to Pitch Black (trying to make it sound good), but I'd say it is kind of like Pitch Black in the fact that they both weren't that scary. At least Pitch Black had characters that were more logical about things.DON'T READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT AND WANT TO. THIS IS A BIT OF A SPOILERI have to say though, that I missed the first 15 minutes or so, but even so, I was glad that I did. When I saw the previews on tv, I was really wanting to see it, but after I did I felt disappointed. I was watching it on a movie channel with my mom, brother, and sister, and we were all laughing and making fun of it. It was just too predictable, and I found it quite odd and funny that whenever the girl was in a panic and tried to start the car to get away, she'd always have problems. Sure, it's always been in horror films that the car just wouldn't start when they turned the key, but not getting the car to even move is just pathetic. I thought mabey she doesn't know how to drive that kind of car, but that didn't make sense because you'd see her afterward driving the car with no problems. One of the scenes that bugged me was when the two of them are driving with the cop car behind them, and because the guy was fussing over the song, they somehow don't see the monster demon thing (whatever it is) standing on top of the cop car killing the cops. Also, if they were any smarter they would've just drove and not stopped to investigate (even if that would've been the end of the movie, which would've been nice lol). I also didn't like the part where the girl tried to run it over. She went forward, it went over. She went backward (when she should've just drove), it went over. By that time I said out loud in a sarcastic tone let's try this again. Eventually she did, and ran it over numerous times, but while one would just drive home, they somehow end up at the police department, how stupid. The ending was the worst. With that one woman keep on saying jeepers creeper where'd you get those peppers, jeepers creepers where'd you get those eyes in the song, eventually I started actually looking at the monster's and the two kid's eyes, and I realised hey, all it wants are their eyes. I was right. I was also right in the fact that the thing took the guy since it liked his smell. Even with the (what seemed like forever) begging of the girl for it to take her, I somehow knew it'd still take him.All in all, it was a lame exuse of a horror movie and I give it half a star out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yeah, ... and ?","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Actually started out well, with a verbose college-aged brother and sister driving through the middle of nowhere to get home for Spring Break, and stumbling onto what they think is a killer on the loose, who begins stalking them in his old brown van. A good scare as the van races up behind them, scares the hell out of them by blasting its horn repeatedly, and trying to drive them off the road. When they see him dumping the body down the pipe, the camera angle panning along as the killer turns and watches them drive by him is well done. The bodies being dumped next to a creepy looking, bird infested church in the middle of nowhere was also a good touch, as was the photography of it. Those scenes gave me a lot of hope for this one, at least in its first half hour. Occasional flairs, such as the killer leaving a palm print of long dead skin are very effective, as the killer continues to stalk them throughout the course of the evening.Unfortunately, the more we learn of the killer, the more silly and inane the film gets, as we learn he is not a serial killer, but some type of winged demon creature from hell, who enjoys sniffing people's drawers (I'm not making that up) to find out what part of them it wants to eat.Film is far too self-aware, as it tries desperately hard to be a cult-classic, for example, by showing the creature eating someone's tongue directly in front of a billboard reading Tastes so good! The psychic character is a complete waste; clichéd and unfunny.The song, Jeepers Creepers, is chosen completely at random; are we supposed to believe that this creature somehow arranges for its future victims to hear a song referencing a body part that he wishes to eat? The threat of a killer on the loose in the countryside was good, but writer/ director Victor Salva felt the need to turn the killer into some ridiculous creature out to eat people, ruining all suspense built up in the first act.It begins a suspense/ thriller, but ends up a juvenile (and somewhat pedophilic, with homosexual undertones) monster movie, with an anticlimactic ending. Salva tried to go for an ironic twist at the end, and failed miserably. No wonder it sat unreleased for a year after its completion. "},{"Title":"Horr-ible","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And they're making a sequel? What?  This is one of those movies that's really frustrating to watch.  It's not scary.  It's not interesting, it's not even funny.  It's not even funny to make fun of!  It's got this weird sort of texas chainsaw massacre wannabe sort of vibe to it, that just takes away so much.  And the fact that we see the demon guys, makes it all the less scary.  The scariest thing you'll ever see at a scary movie is the what you imagine in your own head.  Showing us the villian, and high key lighting, do not a scary movie make.  The plot wasn't interesting, and there were no redeeming qualities to this movie whatsoever.  The chick didnt' even get naked.  Man, what a baaaadd movie. "},{"Title":"Self-destructive","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A very strange film in the sense that its made up of some really great moments and also some disappointing ones. A number of ingredients from other films are thrown in (Duel, The Terminator) and particularly the daytime road chases and the police station scene is tense. However the film is in my opinion almost destroyed by two of the most excruciatingly annoying and downright stupid lead characters (especially the sister, i hated her guts with a passion).  The irritating brother and sister never stop bantering and bickering from start to finish to the point where i would probably have been glad if they bought it. Aside from that they also sported the most stupid behavior.Realising how stupid it is to do something, only to do it anyway doesn't make it any better. The fact that the sister didn't believe what her brother saw, even after all they'd already been through, almost made me turn the movie off. I had the feeling the second half was better than the first, even though riddled with cliche's (car out of gas, car not starting, cop not believing, the leads standing around watching and waiting while the killer does his work), to be honest maybe that was just because the two lead kids were just slightly less irritating than in the first half.Salva however does prove he has a visual style that deserves a further career, but next time please much less cliche's and unsympathetic characters. "},{"Title":"Different perspective than others think...","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Different perspective than others think, but I think the movie wasn't just about one other victim for the Creeper.  I think that this story, as opposed to the story of the creeper as a whole, is about actually exploiting the Creeper.  Up and down that one highway, apparently the Creeper hunts.  For some reason, no one, or at least not many, know about the Creeper and its killing spree and story.  That psychic woman knew because she dreamed those things.  The police had no idea, and the townfolk in that diner didn't seem to know either.There were over 400 bodies in that church basement.  Somehow they were preserved over the years.  The creeper also had been trying to conceal itself in the long run by burning that church.  Without the church, the Creeper would still be less known at least.  By attacking the police station, the Creeper exploited itself, and it's because of Darry and Trish. If the Creeper wasn't after them, then maybe the Creeper would still be undercover or unknown.I'm sure if they make a second movie, more will be explained, but for now I think that little was known about the Creeper until it went after these particular victims. "}{"Title":"Good start and ending, often atmospheric but...","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *** MINOR SPOILER *** This one was a small disappointment to me. I've heard and read a lot of rave reviews from many people. Some saw it as a new Duel. Honestly, I was not impressed. It starts spooky enough, quite slow but still atmospheric and there is some suspense. It is when we actually get to see this killer that things start to fall apart. Frankly, it looks like Creature from the black lagoon. If director Salva had left his features hidden in the shadows, it might have worked all the way. The scenes at the police station are anti-climatic and sometimes downright stupid. But the ending is a kicker! Gina Phillips is quite good in her part, but Justin Long is over-acting for much of the time. And they are frankly not portraying very nice characters, constantly bickering and complaining and whining. Maybe Victor Salva wanted them to be a little unsympathetic because of the ending he has in store for one of them. Just speculating! And why waste a good actress like Eileen Brennan in such a minor part?! Maybe I am being to harsh. The plot is unusual, it has some nice effects and very good build-up. Basically, it's not a must-see but if it is on television one night...why not? "},{"Title":"Great Modern Horror Movie?  Please...","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is awful.  It is just plain awful.  It starts off very promising--very Children of the Corn-ish...a couple is driving in the middle of nowhere in an old beat up car... nothing but farmlands everywhere... they're brother and sister... they have some good dialogue... there's some interesting stuff that leads up to... the monster.As soon as the suspense hits (and there is a little suspense, you can give it credit for that) it plays with as much intelligence as The Three Stooges. These two idiot kids, who could have been stronger characters (although they are heavily stereotyped), always stand around looking at the killer...well... killing.  Instead of running while the monster chews out the decapitated head's tongue, they sit and watch it until it's finished. Instead of running when he's at that old house, they stick around. Instead of driving away, they decided to repeatedly try to run the dude over.When watching a good horror movie (Halloween anyone?) I get the urge to yell to the character Run! because I feel for them and want them to get out of whatever conflict they find themselves in.  In Jeepers Creepers I'm screaming Run you idiots! because you have absolutely no compassion for their idiocy.  I was on the edge of my seat, not in terror, but wanting to knock some sense into the two morons who always chose the way that led to more terror and death.This movie--when it first came out--was praised as one of the better modern horror movies.  The fact that someone would say that is purely astonishing. It really makes me wonder why excellent modern horror movies like Scream (not 2 and 3) get a bad rap because people look back and say, Hey--it's another teen horror movie.  Yet they don't realize, when it was released, it was new and fresh, and had never beend one since the 80's.  Not only was it first, but it was the best and spawned a long line of inferior clones. The good modern horror movies are victim to films like these.It's really sickening that Hollywood spends millions and makes millions on this garbage.Oh, and the ending?  Was I supposed to feel sad, sick, or horrified for the guy?  Well, I felt sad, sick, and horrified... but for a whole different reason. "},{"Title":"Feast Your Peepers on this...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A lot of my friends saw Jeepers Creeper when it was released in the cinemas and thought it wasn't something they could comment on much. However I still rented this one out on DvD when it was released because my sister wanted to see it on her brand-spanking new DvD Player. I sat along for the ride, and boy was it a ride.I found this film to be an interesting film. Yes there were clichéd moments (not something that's avoidable in the Horror genre I'm afraid) but I thought the dialogue was almost realistic with a lot of it attributed to shock. The plot itself is hardly original - nasty demon thingy seeks out organs.However I found myself drawn to this film like a moth to a magnet.As a horror film it's pretty stale but as a story it's breathtaking. Excellent stuff. I await the sequel. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I first thought  (MINOR SPOILERS)","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw and reviewed this film when it first came out and I was really annoyed with he second half of it as the awesome first half had so much potential.However, I got the film dirt-cheap on VHS recently and was pleasantly surprised. Knowing that the film was going to change direction as it did made it easier to adapt to. It's still not half as good as it should have been but it doesn't ruin the film THAT much.The first half (for those who haven't seen it) is really suspenseful, exciting and funny- the brother/sister carry-on between Trish (Gina Philips) and Darry (Justin Long). There's stuff that makes you care about what happens to them- unfortunately there's little of this in the second half. The Pipe Scene is also quite good despite the fact that the 'bodies' are very, very obviously dummies! As well as that the killing of the cops is done tremendously well. (The Creeper on top of the car in the backround was ingenious).The second half loses the plot a little. Eileen Brennan's (the cat lady) scene is a bit pointless,  but Trish running the Creeper over repeatedly is gnarly!  And, ah yes, the infamous psychic.. I don't hate the character as much as some, but she WAS pointless. The police station scene still does nothing for me from a suspense point of view. The Creeper still looks ridiculous.However, the ending is still shocking it was a good idea to go this route, I think, and do something a bit different. (The music used as Trish looks up into the sky is really good, too.)On the whole it's a fine film. The first half is, as I said, terrific, but the second is less so. I've heard that a sequel is in the works, as it were. Unless Trish returns, I think it'll probably flop cos I don't see the Creeper gaining cult villain status like Michael Myers or Jason or Freddy Krueger, etc. If I had to grade the film I'd give it about 7 out of 10. (I think I gave it 5 the first time round).    "},{"Title":"'Jeepers' never gives you the 'creepers'","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **Starring Justin Long, Gina Phillips, and one ugly creature.Two college students returning home encounter a mysterious creature who likes to use the organs of his victims for his own.The movie has some fun moments, but it will never give you a feel that will actually scare you.  Also the ending was crap.  Just plain crap. "},{"Title":"has potential, then becomes cliche","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought at the beginning of this movie that someone had finally remembered how to scare audiences, but then, halfway through the thing, it just became the usual lame creature-feature. Does anyone remember the original Alien movie, and what made it so scary? Did you see the guy in the rubber suit? No, never, just shadows, movement, etc. That's what the beginning of this movie promised. So let me spell it out for all wannabe movie makers who might someday make it  D O N T   G I V E W A Y   E V E R Y T H I N G   A B O U T   T H E   K I L L E R !  This would have been actually scary and not pathetically stupid if we never saw the Creeper. I don't care how great the makeup and creature artists are, it's still a guy in a blue rubber suit! The movie would've been so much better if we never saw it.Now, as for the end, a couple of people said, Why didn't the sister go back to the church and get even? Um, listen to the movie, the church was burnt down. Plus, if you watch the movie, you'll see that the place where the guy in the blue rubber suit is at the end is not a church, but some factory or something. "},{"Title":"Builds up well - Crap ending","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film gets you on the edge of your seat, all the way through. However just when you are expecting a big get you back fight scene, it ends!!! Wanted more. The acting was good, the tension great & the FX the best since Jason & the Argonauts!!! "},{"Title":"ridiculous","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I swear jeepers creepers is such a dumb movie. The audience was laughing more than being scared. I even thought it was a dumb movie. Throughtout the whole movie the audience was booing. It started out ok but then sucked all the way to the end. Dont rent this movie. "},{"Title":"A Real Horror movie, but by the way...","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Final Score (calculated average of several classic cinematic qualitites)8.4 (out of 10)Ok, so here I come to sing the praises of Jeepers Creepers, a movie that badly needs it, a good old fashioned drive-in creature feature, a sick, scary, but playful and fun campfire story- and I'm shocked to learn Victor Salva is a convicted child molester.  And I listened to the DVD commentary, Ick.  I like the matter-of-fact way it's written on the IMDB trivia page among his date of birth and favorite movie.  The question is can a child molester still make a good movie? And the answer, of course, is no. The problem is that much of the success of JC is a result of a talented director and an imaginative writer- a guy clearly in love with the art of filmmaking. So I've decided to blame the studio execs who hired Salva than punish the movie (the work of many others) itself.  Because, long after Victor Salva is dead this movie will still be sitting on the video store shelves- likely a monster movie cult classic.  And yes I can't wait for the sequel.In a post-Scream world where everything has to be cheeky and self-referential, Jeepers Creepers is a refreshing change of pace.  It finds horror in creating a creepy atmosphere (instead of gory violence), in swampy Floridian back roads, scarecrows, cats, diners, vintage cars and raspy phonograph songs from the 20s.  The movie is not dull, it uses music and atmosphere to lull you into it's spell.  In fact, stylistically, Jeepers Creepers was closer to the Resident Evil video games than the Resident Evil movie was. The Creeper is a real work of creativity and the star of the movie. It's brilliant the way Salva slowly reveals The Creepers' appearance and abilities throughout the entire movie.  I'll leave details about this regenerating demon to your own discovery.  There is some sick, sly humor sprinkled in here which reminds us that it is an absurd, campfire legend not to be taken seriously.  I still laugh at Justin Long's interpretation of the Creeper's creepy vanity plates.Which brings me to the characters.  Justin Long and Gina Phillips (to old for Salva) give breakout performances, perfectly in-sync with the movie's tone.  Their chemistry is so realistic that, even without saying it, we can tell that they are brother/sister not boyfriend/girlfriend as a more cliche movie would have made them.  The weakest link is the incorporation of a psychic character.  This is always a lazy story device and yet in this movie it is forgivable.  She seems to exist more for pace, to shorten the film's running time and is used from beginning to end, not to fill plot holes, but to help us piece the story together.Then there is the ending.  More specifically the final shot.  A shot that love it or hate it (I went back and forth) is undeniably unforgettable. It's to the credit of it that I feel compelled to spend an entire paragraph talking about it.  Like the final scene in Boogie Nights it is one of those scenes that will live in infamy.  It shocks us out of the nice, safe routine Hollywood has lulled us into and reminds us that we've just seen a real horror movie.  Don't forget to stick around for the credits.  Salva has dug up Henry Hall's Here Comes the Boogyman for the perfect ending song. "},{"Title":"Scary movie indeed","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I do not scare easily..but at times in this movie, I jumped and screamed. I loved this movie for its visual effects as well as the fact that you didn't know WHO the Creeper was. ***MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS***The bone-crunching by the Creeper weirded me out...even creeped me out. The scene where the Creeper takes out the tongue of the decapitated police man...*SHUDDER*. VERY good, gory a bit, scary yes.All in all I enjoyed this film. I was not happy with the ending though, of course.9/10 "}{"Title":"Its really fun.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was on the internet and I was kind of impressed, then I rented it and boy its a lot better on a TV. Jeepers Creepers doesn't get the credit it deserves. It isn't a SCREAM or HALLOWEEN movie, it's your plain, good old monster-kills-in-the-shadows movie and it delivers a fine story. Its about a brother and sister on the run from a manic something or another getting revenge on them for spotting him dumping dead bodies down a sewer. I'd give it an 8/10.My MPAA rating R for terror/gore and some language and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"Lamentable","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nice opening 5 minutes plummets into cynical and poorly thought out and utterly unscary garbage from then on. It simply doesn't work as a scary and/or suspenseful slasher, simply ticking off the required genre elements without bothering to find out how they work, let alone use them in an unexpected fashion. The worst aspect of it is the cynical and deeply depressing set-up for the sequel.Which at least can't be any worse.Surely... "},{"Title":" If you hear that song, it means things in your worst nightmares are coming for you","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gina Phillips is bland as Patricia in this conniving horror film. The following cast is lame. The costumes are cute. Questionably horrid, Jeepers Creepers is a clever but vain effort in this genre that will not scare the viewer too well. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers makes Dolemite look like Citizen Kane","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can only say that anyone who tells you that this movie is scary and recommends that you watch it, is a horrible, horrible sadist.  This is easily, the WORST movie I have ever seen, and I've sat through The Avenging Disco Godfather...(rock!). First off, the script is terrible.  Mr. Salva obviously doesn't have a sister, and if he ever did, he must have never spoken to her in his life, because his portrayal of a family dynamic is about as far from realistic as it gets.  The movie actually makes you WANT to see these brats eaten, if only to stop their incessant whining.  These are not protagonists you care about.  If you find you have any emotional connection with these characters at all, it is, without exception a seething, burning hate.  However, the audience, is inevitably robbed of any catharsis at the end, because even though somebody dies, it's done in the absolute worst scene caught on film. You can't even enjoy their death because you just feel dirty after sitting through it.  Suffice to say, the ending is a travesty. And for a real treat, rent the DVD with the alternate ending.  I honestly didn't think it was possible, but it's actually worse.  MUCH worse.  That's like finding out that Charles Manson spends his down-time kicking puppies.As for the Monster, well, the thing just doesn't make much sense.  You can design the spookiest monster in the world, but it doesn't make much difference if you have it doing Matrix-type ninja moves.  That's like Freddy Kruger using a pistol.  It just doesn't work.  And the monster's obsession with the Jeepers, Creepers song fails to be scary, instead, its just really stupid.  And, like I said, it doesn't make any sense.So anyway, the movie's terrible, as bad as it gets, and if you voluntarily watch it after reading this review, you deserve the inevitable aneurysm that comes with it. "},{"Title":"90 boring minutes","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADI must admit that I didn't watch this movie under ideal circumstances. I watched it on my computer screen in broad daylight, so I missed the atmospherical stimulation of a cinema full of screaming people. But still I think it would be safe to say that this is a movie that nobody would've missed if it wouldn't have been made. The story (teenage siblings get in the way of a man-eating supernatural monster that decides to put one of them on that night's menu)is very weak to begin with, but that doesn't necessarily mean that the movie should be bad. Lots of Wes Craven flicks have an even thinner plot, but still work. I'm still trying to figure out why Jeepers Creepers doesn't. The acting is okay, the special effects are not that bad and the overall look and feel of the movie is convincing, even on a far from perfect monitor.  Maybe it's just the fact that everything this movie wants to do has been done before. Every element you'd expect in a middle of the road horror movie is there, turning the story into a sad vehicle that has to come to a halt at all the far too familiar stops. There's the teenagers to begin with, followed by their discovery of the ghoul and their predictable decision not to run for their lives but to go back and investigate the terrors that they could've just walked away from. There's also a number of 'false alarms', moments that should make you jump while actually there's nothing to be scared of. Well... I didn't jump. The mid section of the movie is 'the hunt'. The monster works his way to the main characters and kills a number of irrelevant victims while he's at it. It is in this part of the movie that, as an afterthought, a psychic woman is introduced who's supposed to shed some light on the otherwise meaningless proceedings of the monster. However, the only important thing she knows is that either the brother or the sister will be the final victim and when she finally arrives at the scene this dreadful fact is just about to happen and her psychic viewings don't help a thing!The only good thing about the ending of the movie is the fact that the makers had the guts to let one of the main characters die. The bad thing is that the monster survived, so guess what... the sequel is already in the making.I'm still not very sure why I found this movie so boring. I've seen other predictable horror movies that still amused me. Maybe the teenage-slasher genre is finally dead after the Scream series made explicit fun of its rules and cliches. Or maybe we can't be scared by surreal monsters anymore now that we see so many real life ghouls on television... "},{"Title":"great beginning, creepy ending, but the middle sags","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **SPOILERS** This movie had some very scary and suspenseful moments.  The opening scenes in which the truck is chasing the kids down the highway had me on the edge of my seat, and was also a well done nod to Spielberg's Duel.  But once the movie started in with its Scream-like dialogue where characters say obvious things like this is like the part in horror movies where..., it began to go down hill.  And the Creeper doing backflips and Matrix-style karate moves after the cat lady scene had me sighing with shame.  The ending shot in which the camera dollies into the creeper's workroom and we see that he has cut out Derry's eyes redeems the film a bit, but seeing too much of the monster earlier on (the Karate scene) really spoiled it.  Salva had a chance to make a genuinely scary film but instead jumped on the bandwagon with this one.   Maybe he'll do better with the sequel. "},{"Title":"Well made and entertaining but flakey characterisation","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was one of the better horrors I have seen recently, the special effects were believable and the script and acting were both generally pretty good.However, the continual stream of stupidity that the characters exhibited (possibly in order to build tension, but really building frustration with the characters) only served to weaken my suspension of disbelief.  While I won't get into the specific spots in the movie where I felt this was the case, the symptoms were sudden unexplainable ignorance, dithering about and the use of bad logic to convince other characters to go along with ill conceived actions decreased the quality of a movie I otherwise enjoyed.Despite the problems I had with it, I would thoroughly recommend this movie as an entertaining evening.  It didn't have me looking over my shoulder as much as I sometimes do after watching a horror, but I was somewhat freaked after watching it. "},{"Title":"A horrible movie Note This contains a little bit of a spoiler","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well lets put it this way THE MOVIE SUCKED! It stole limbs it already had. It had hundreds of bodies for what reason. They said it needed them to survive. Well it looked like it was pretty dan well before it stole those limbs. The acting sucked, the plot sucked, and the sequel will probably suck. I'd give this movie a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's just all right","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers, I think, has just as many detractors as it does positives. It's not a bad movie at all, but it's certainly not great either. I'll start with the good. The whole brother and sister angle was really a breath of fresh air. No time wasted with some cliche tra la la romance between some WB star and her hunky boyfriend. Better still was that the characters seemed real. Sure, there was quite a bit of over acting and some silly dialouge- but there are also a lot of really genuine moments. These two really seem like brother and sister. The look of the film is also good. Really atmospheric and consistant in tone. The actual Creeper himself is a really good villain...until he takes off the coat and hat. There are also some really memorable shots in the movie. The police officer standing with light shining through where his heart used to be was very cool and of course the last shot of the movie is also very effective.Now for the bad. Let's talk about that ending just a minute. I believe I can do it without any spoilers, too. Nevermind that the ending is abrupt and there's no trace of a climax in sight... but what really got under my skin was such a blatant set-up for a sequel. At the same time, I have mixed feelings because at least they knew there was probably going to be one so why dance around the issue? This way, they don't need to come up with some stupid story in the next one about how The Creeper survived. We all know already. The film seems to favor suspence over gore which is fine... if it is indeed suspenceful. Maybe I've just seen too many of these movies over time but I really wasn't scared at all. No edge of the seat moments for me. I can recognize shots like the one where Derry comes banging on the window of the car a mile away. Films that rely on those jump scares are better left to the likes of Wes Craven or other directors who have truly mastered the technique. And once again, the Creeper minus his duds is nearly laughable. He simply isn't as scary. Latex monster suits never have done much for me. Had they taken the less is more approach with the Creeper's appearance it would have been far more effective. Well, that's my two cents. Jeepers Creepers isn't a total waste of your money, but I don't agree with anyone who's claiming it to be the best horror film in years. Most people just don't care to dig deep enough and discover all the really great, truly scary films your local cineplex isn't playing. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies so far this decade","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  jeepers creepers is a horror movie thats bound to be a classic. it all starts when trish jenner (gina phillips) and her brother darry jenner (justin long) take a trip back to there mothers house, where they get attaked by the creeper (jonathan breck)when they both manage to get away they go to the nearest police station where they meet the local phsycic jezzel gay hartman (patricia belcher) and sgt. david tubbs (brandon smith) there bazare trip also takes them to the cat lady (elieen brennon) jeepers creepers is a movie thats worth watching. "}{"Title":"Thrilling, Fun, Entertainment... It deserves your attention.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just watched Jeepers Creepers on theatre and... wow! What a pleasant surprise! The trailer on tv was interesting but nothing more. The film is actually really thrilling, fun, interesting. The long-suspenceful opening sequence with the dark truck is exceptional, comparable to the Drew Barrymore scene in Scream no blood, no monsters only good, fresh suspence. A good start. From the first frame we meet the leading stars a young and beautiful girl (actress Gina Philips) and his teenager younger brother (Justin Long) and we discover that they are nice and amusing characters. The script is full of funny Scream-style quotes when we see that the boy is the typical stupid character who always put himself in danger, her sister tells to him something like This is the time when the audience starts to hate the stupid character who does stupid things Amusing line. When you jump in your seat (and you will, at least 10 times) you nearly always laugh the next second. And you will REALLY jump by fear and you will REALLY laugh by black humour. It is an intense movie it doesnt have a deep and wonderful script (the monsters identity is a little undeveloped and seems too simple) but its nice to go to theatre once on a while and be scared for a pair of hours. Best scenes everything located in the street, the church sequence and that image when the monster, near the church, stops himself to look at the guys in the car and then takes its evil truck (its something like Hey, I SEE YOU!... scary). Everything in the film is OK from the cast to the direction; from the make-up to the cinematography. One of the best horror films of the year. It deserves your attention.  "},{"Title":"Average movie, suprising end","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After finally seeing this movie, I can only say that it's an average horrormovie. Somethings were so predictable, you see someone looking at the killer in the movie, they close there eyes and he's gone. Look behind you is the first thing you would say, and indeed this cliché isn't spared in this movie.But, nonetheless, I almost never watch horrormovies without stopping and continuing to watch it someday later, because most of the time they are boring as hell, but this one gives a lot of questions while watching it.The special effects are also average, some makeup, some small CGI parts, but hey...it works.****SPOILER****But what I really liked about the movie is the fact that Darry gets caught (nothing knew) but he actually gets killed! And he's playing the lead role. Normally, the heroes survive and the killer gets killed, but this time it's vice versa. The killer stays alive, and one of the main character gets killed. Talking about a surprise ending. I've noticed there's a sequel coming, I'm not sure if that will work out, but hey, for the this one I can recommend it! If it weren't for the ending I would give it 5/10, but now a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now this is something I really didn't expect. Before I've watched Jeepers Creepers, I had heard nothing about it, so I didn't know what to expect. Didn't see that one coming.The movie is definetly the scariest thing I saw, if only for it's first half. It starts with a brother and sister driving home from college on a country side road, when a truck (license plate BEATNGU) appears behind them, signaling them to let it pass (or some such). After the truck passes them, the brother and sister notice the driver dump a sack into an old pipe next to and old building at the side of the road. From there on, the movie paces up a bit.Jeepers Creepers definetly is very scary. The scenes with the truck (that does look like something that came from hell) and the old church are simply terrifying, and they will keep you on the edge of your seat. Unfortunatly, about at the middle of the movie, it takes a stroll to the dumb side, where there are many plot holes and inconsistencies. Still, just for first 45 minutes, the movie is a blast.The acting is simply brilliant, where the actors portray Trish and Derry nicely and very believably. The plot is very interesting, unlike many other slasher flicks. Overall, watch this movie, if only to make sure you're not missing something. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, scary, what more do you want in a horror movie","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like my review says, suspenseful and scary. It keeps you waiting and wondering what will happen next, and then almost every scene scares the pants off a fighting wildcat. If you are a true horror fan, watch this. If you don't like horror movies -- and, or can't handle them, Avoid it. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well, well...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I thought this movie definitely had moments when it was really, really scary and I too thought that there were some (in a sick way) funny moments in it. But. But what is it with those movies that they ALWAYS seem to melt down at the ending?! They start of great, setting the mood, genuinely creepy... but after the first half, the writers seem to run out of steam. And I really dislike to see brothers and sisters in a movie like this. First of all, they always seem to argue, even when their lives are at stake or when one of them is about to get into really big trouble. I have a brother and I've been a teenage girl, but if something like this would have happened to us, I wouldn't have been arguing with him! I would take a hold of his arm and not let him go until we were both safely at home. I would NEVER let him go of on his own and if he would fall into a scary dark pit, I'd jump in after him without a doubt. Second of all... Well, I don't really want to give away the ending, but... Alright SPOILER AHEAD!!!!!!!!!Though the ending of this movie is (for American-movie standards)pretty daring, I didn't like to watch it one bit. Being a big sister meself I mean. It made me feel miserable. Overall, for the kind of movie it was, it was scary enough. But it could've been better. "},{"Title":"Good film but overrated","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The critics said Best horror of the last 10 years and like most of the time, they were wrong.I'm gonna compare it to what I think is the best horror of the last 10 years, Children of the Corn III (1994).Acting Brilliant acting in this film from Gina Phillips, Justin Long and Jonathan Breck. Though the acting was good it can't compare with the performances in Children of the Corn 3 by Daniel Cerny, Ron Melendez, Jim Metzler and Mari Morrow.Death scenes Though both films didn't scare me I felt more chills going down my back in Children of the Corn 3. Though death scenes in both films were well made Children of the Corn 3's death scenes were more suspensful and gory.Special effects Jeepers Creepers beats Children of the Corn 3 on this one and if you've seen Children of the Corn 3 you'll know why Jeepers Creepers wins. No fake looking monsters and the effects were consistant in Jeepers Creepers. Unlike Children of the Corn 3 were effects were good in parts but that monster at the end drove me mad!Storyline The storyline of Children of the Corn 3 was better for me because its set in a city and I live in a city but Jeepers Creepers goes as follows Darry and Trisha are going home the long way from college but a creeper runs them off the road. They stupidly investigate then the creeper persues them until his hunger is satisfied!All in all Jeepers Creepers is a good film but best horror of the last 10 years? No because a character died that I didn't want to die. If you're looking for a good wee horror to waste a bit of time on this is it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Scary, not bad...","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers creepers is a fairly decent movie that screams low budget, and poor planning, although I did rent, and buy the movie with little to no hesitation, it isn't a Scream or I Know what you did last summer.  The movie is about a brother and sister traveling home for the summer.  On there travels, which happen to be on back roads, (no one ever hear of interstates????) they find something out of the ordinary. The movie is good in a sense that it knows that its cheap, and it admits it. One line in the movie is ...this is the part of the movie that someone does something really stupid and everyone hates them for it...  This line is great, it gave me a new found appreciation for the movie.  Although the movie was not scary at all for me, it was a decent shot at a scary movie, that resulted in a cheap thriller rather than the horror, teen slasher genre it was aiming for. Not a give away or anything, just direct your attention to the driving of the characters in this movie.  Rent the movie though, its not a waste if your looking for Scream -Fat Free "},{"Title":"Hm, okay","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS INCLUDEDNice start, good dialogue, Gina Phillips (was that her second name?) looks gorgeous, she and Justin Long acted pretty well. The first 30 minutes really suck you in even though there could be some more shocks. Then as soon as the two get to the 7-11 it all gets dumb. The phonecall, the typical unbelieving policemen and of course the ridiculous Creeper himself. Why did they have to show us this cheaply made puppet? it would have been so much cooler if we'd never actually gotten to see him. Well, however, they aren't the first to make this mistake. The movie continues  and never really gets thrilling or frightening anymore and holes in the plot (that suddenly explodes with new facts about the monster) get obvious. Some of the stuff the Gypsy says doesn't make any sense. Like Why does this Creepers only eat every 23 years? Is there any reason why exactly it only returns every 23 years? No! Who cares? However, there's a nice final scene though! All in all, Jeepers Creepers is no masterpiece but okay. Oh and did I mention that Gina Phillips looks gorgeous? "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers?! No, not really!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After the anticipation of watching this movie, I was sadly disappointed. While it had a few creepy scences, including the Creepers hole and the ending, other than that it lack any real thrills.The acting was horrible. As the movie progressed, one can not help but feel cheated out of their money. Hopefully I've you already made the mistake of watching it, you didn't pay alot. "},{"Title":"A Good Popcorn Movie","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's been awhile since we've seen monster movies being made (aside from the poor rehashing of worn out series like Halloween and Friday the 13th). Along came this little-anticipated gem.  Its creepy, atmospheric and surprising at the end a mixture of 'Duel', Chainsaw Massacre and Demons.  Brother and sister are driving across the mid-west and see a cloaked individual throwing what appears to be sheet-draped bodies down into a gutter.  They decide to go back for a second look (the first of a couple of standard dumb teen moments) and find what appears to be hundreds of bodies in the sewer.  The rest of the movie has the 'individual' pursuing them in a nightmarish truck, then tracking them as they goto the nearest city for help.  I don't want to spoil the surprises but this is worth a rent. "}{"Title":"Absolutely terrible...","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't understand how anyone with a functioning brain could possibly give this movie any more than 1* outta 10.  By the 15 minute mark, the movie looked like it was ready for MST 3K.  It's terrible!!!  The effects were terrible too.  The creature looked like a guy in a rubber mask that you'd buy at the Halloween store at the mall.  I thought the Blair Witch Project was the worst piece of krap I'd ever seen til this stupid movie was made and now they're making a sequel!!  Woo-hoo, I'd rather watch a blue screen for an hour and a half.  There'd be less to make fun of.  I don't think there will ever be another quality horror movie.  Everything put out now is just a comedy with blood. "},{"Title":"Uh...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Uh.... That's what my aunt and I said when the movie ended. That's all we could say. It was alright I guess. But I don't it was THAT great. It's not the kind of movie and pay tickets for. It's not the best movie in the world. But I guess it's O.K. Just wish they changed the ending a little....Rating 2 "},{"Title":"Excellent start, but trails off into appauling","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Everyone had raved about this film. I went into the cinema expecting a good horror. It started off absolutely brilliant. For about the first hout, I was on the edge of my seat. The underground layer was a great way to be introduced to the creature who you suspect is a man. Up until then, he's only been ramming the poor brother and sister who are innocently driving home from college, making words out of number plates. This joke however, was played a little to much, with the creature's number plate sounds like Beating you. One serious question to ask the writer what sain person would go to the house after some maniac who tried to kill them dropped a body into a pipe? I know I'd be the other side of the country by that point.Unfortunatly, the tenseness of the film is spoiled when you realise the creature can fly. And the awefull stupid and annoying shot of the creature walking into the police station spoiled the entire film for me. I just couldn't take it seriously after that. The film just gets worse from then on, until the dull punchline of the film takes effect, with the creature flying like a bat away from the police with its victom hanging. Someone tell Victor Salva to keep up the brilliance of the first hour next time. "},{"Title":"Never seen such a worthless piece off s**t in my life!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I couldn't put a spoiler warning in here, because the movie takes care of that by itself. There's absolutely no story whatsoever. Don't rent it, unless you're a masochist. Just thought I would share this with you. "},{"Title":"It could happen to you.. (**WARNING SPOILER**)","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm unable to really comment on this film without including some spoilers as there are mostly just parts of the story line that I can criticize. The good stuff though is that this is original horror movie (well, coming from me might not mean much as I don't usually watch them).  What I found most interesting was the believability of how the characters got drawn into this, even though they truly tried to get away and to get help.  On top of that was the chemistry between the siblings Darius (played by Justin Long - which is memorable as computer geek in Galaxy Quest) and Patricia great. **SPOILER** But I felt some holes in the story put the film down.  We have this evil thing easily killing cops and other unfortunate people that he comes across, even though it takes him the whole film to get to unarmed teenagers.  Furthermore, the story behind the bird-like monster is never revealed.  How did he operate before without anyone taking notice, and how long had he been doing this?  Where did he come from?  And in the end the film just fades away.  He got what he wanted, and even though he killed several people in the police station, live is back to normal the next morning (one might think that the FBI or similar would be swarming the place - Fox Mulder anyone?). However, don't worry too much about these downsides.  It is a pretty good film with the two young actors managing to hold this film up all on their own.  "},{"Title":"First scare in a long time","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Before the 80s, we had traditional horror movies like Dracula, and Frankenstein. With their 'old-horror-movie' special effects, they provided great entertainment. In the 80s, we had the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I remember not being able to sleep after one of those movies (I was too young to remember which one). In the 90s and even into this millennium, we have had teen-slasher movies galore. However, Jeepers Creepers takes us back to the 80s, without actually taking us back to the 80s. Without masses of computer-generated special effects, this movie still provokes our fear, and tantalizes the senses. Unlike teen-slasher movies, you do not spend the movie trying to work out who the killer is, but you are concerned about the characters. Like most horror movies, you invariably end up shouting at the screen telling the characters not to do something, but in this movie, I did that only once. The other times, the characters were intelligent enough to know what to do, and not enter the dark decrepit house with no one around for miles, and no one knowing where they are, etc.The acting is great and the direction better. I will definitely look out for more of Victor Salva's work. On the whole, if you go into this movie thinking 'I want to be entertained and frightened a little then this is the movie. If you are thinking I want to see a movie where the characters are incredibly believable and so is the story then give this a miss.  "},{"Title":"Finally! A good horror movie in the new century","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is by no way one of the greatest horror films in recent years but it outstands from others. Seems like The Texas Chain Saw Massacre and Night Of The Living Dead were big influences for this movie. It has some scares, a creepy atmosphere, and a scary villain. Gina Phillips is hot and gives a great performance, and the guy who plays Darry does it very good. An effective horror film, an easy plot to follow, and gore are all here and work very well. This one deserves to be checked out!. *People who enjoy the new horror movies will love it, and die hard fans of the genre will likely enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Didnt live up to it's initial potential.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is not the worst scary movie i have seen , in fact the first hour is good and does have that fear factor that so many modern day horror movies lack. The problem with the movie for me is that what makes a scary movie is not what you see but what you dont see. A good horror should let the viewers mind play tricks with itself and let the fright come within their own imagination. A perfect example is the Blare Witch Project. So the reason this film is a let down is the fact that in the last half hour we see the creature responsible for all the killings and all of a sudden it is not so scary. The other reason this film does not live up to its potential is the rubbish ending. Without giving the ending away it just looks like they had no proper ending ,so what they did was leave the film hanging so they can make a sequel. I'm not sure i will be watching Jeepers Creepers 2 . 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rent It Now!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a remarkably scary movie! I thought that it would be a mildly scary story on the same lines as 'The X-Files'. Was I wrong! This is one of the scariest and goriest movies I have seen in a long time.The reason the movie is scary is that it is the classical boogey man character and you can actually picture yourself as either in the role of the brother or sister.The visual effects ane not the greatest but the movie relies on the viewers imagination by using darkly lit scenes.The ending is a bit of a letdown and makes the movie look average. Ignore all the negative comments and get it on video! But don't watch it on your own. "},{"Title":"Could this movie have sucked more?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, the previews and posters actually made it look like a movie to see. I love horror movies and always will. I saw my first horror movie when I was four and didn't even flinch. I can watch every horror movie ever made and not have one single dream/nightmare. I was expecting this to be a good horror movie. Boy was I ever wrong. The story line is A brother and sister coming home from college see this strange man put something as they refer it to as it is so obviously a body down a huge pipe. They are then stalked by the man with his giant truck while this fat black lady tries to save them from the Hell Demon Evil Beast or whatever.It's far worse then your traditional horror movie. Yes the characters are stupid and want to check out weird noises.But Jeepers Creepers takes it a step further. Making them MORE stupid. This movie is a worthless piece of crap. Just when I though it couldn't get any worse, I read that a sequel is coming out in 2003. Why is God punishing us?! 0 out of 10 stars.  "}{"Title":"Not your usual horror movie... *~S P O I L E R~*","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you realy want to get scared, watch this movie in this middle of the night, about 200 AM, Lights dimmed, full headphones volume!This movie was diffrent from every other horror movie I have ever seen. It was... Scary! let's take Scream, for example. A guy running with a steak knife and talking on the phone is NOT a scary movie, it is a stupid sadistic thriller. or, a psychological thriller. This was pure shier horror film. It has a surprise ending, like no movie I have ever seen. It's old fashion, but in, like, new technology. It seems as if it stops in the middle of it. You think, It's probably good and scary at the begining, but it's starts to suck in the middle, but the middle is actually the end. I just can't wait to know what is going to happen on Jeepers Creepers 2 (2003). If it will answer some unanswered questions about this movie... But what am I saying? Untill than, I'll just watch The others (2002).oh, yea. lost the nudity. it stinked out the entire movie. why? why? yea, sex sells, but how much can one get? seriously. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie ever","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie last September and it started out like an average horror movie. For the first 15-20 minutes you think your going to be getting your money's worth. This however, is not the case. The two main characters are coming home from college when they encounter a truck trying to drive them off the road, later they see something in a trench coat dumping bodies down a pipe. Naturally without contacting the police first they go investigate. They discover hundreds of bodies in the pipe and they go to the police. It turns out the driver of the truck is this giant bat. I wrote this review to help anyone who might consider seeing this movie or might know someone who is going to see it or its sequel, (cough). Do not watch this movie. It ranks as the 2nd worst movie I have ever seen, finishing a close second behind Bats (1999). About an hour into the movie many people had already left the theater and the other half were in the theater participating in private conversations. There were a few who were just yelling stuff at the screen and no one really cared. The Only excuse to go see this movie is if you are one of those people who just likes seeing incredibly bad movies just to laugh at them.  "},{"Title":"A different horror.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  It was frightening, but whats more is it was scary. The movie starts out making you think the killer is a certain psychotic serial killer without being too unique other than his 'beat' up old truck (a nice touch).  The tag reads 'beatngu' and he follows and terrifies two young sibling characters.  Each is played quite well and interact with each other convincingly. Other than the usual and ridiculous 'Don't go down the deep dark hole held only by your feet'-type scenes in the film where you have to wonder who in the world would do that.  The majority of the movie was fascinating, edge-of-your-seat horror; for all who love a great scare. I can't say much more without telling too much.  Just watch it, you won't be disappointed. 8/10 pts.  -2 for some slight run-of-the-millness.  Albeit not much.  "},{"Title":"Reveals stuff about the movie, if you don't want to know don't read this.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie may very well be the stupidest so-called horror flick that I have ever seen.  It was so predictable, I mean when someone in a horror movie is being held down a pipe by their feet, you know that the person holding them is going to drop them!AND, how in the world did their car go from automatic to stick shift?  When they were driving it was automatic, but try to get it started? Now it's manual.  Also, if you know that some psycho may be coming back at any minute, and you SURE don't want him to know you are there, why would you park your car right out front?   And that stupid song! Jeepers, Creepers, where'd you get those peepers? Jeepers, Creepers, where'd you get those eyes?  Come on.  But I have to admit, there was one part I liked, but only because it was kind of funny.  You know, that part where he eats the cops tongue out of his head?  Just look at the sign behind him.  "},{"Title":"Weak plot followed by even weaker acting","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The plot was satisfactory but still contained a few holes, while the acting was, how shall I say, terrible. Yes, running around eyes wide open with a dumbstruck look on your face, as Justin Long seemed to be doing most of the time, isn't exactly superb acting.The plot is a supernatural being, The Creeper (Breck),reeks havoc on anyone who unknowingly crosses his path. Those people happen to be brother Derry   (Long),and sister Trish (Phillips).Enter an old black woman (who vaguely reminds me of Mrs. Buttersworth)who warns them to runaway fast if they hear the song Jeepers Creepers because that means The Creeper's going to kill someone again.Now isn't that complicated. The only thing that I enjoyed about the movie was the surprise ending. "},{"Title":"how I feel about Jeepers Creepers","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think the directors could've done better. This movie is absolutely crap. I can't see how they could have confidence in making another one.  The movie is garbage. From the beginning to the End. Especially the end. A lot of people.. I know agree with me. The end was horrible. And like many others, this is my opinion. But I just wanted to share what I felt about this ridiculous movie.  "},{"Title":"a few scares, but horribly predictable plot, bad acting","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** this movie was just BAD and not worth watching. The two protagonists were both very irritable for the start and the stupidity of the plot didn't help. There is one scene where the girl says this is the part in scary movies where *blah blah blah*. Nice self-awareness, but then they spend the next hour running into all the cliches of horror movies past. The acting is quite terrible too, especially of the lead actors. Try to count how many times there is a close up shot of either lead, staring in shock. It just looks so incredibly phony.SPOILERi was actually glad to see one of them die, it just wouldn't have been fair for them to commit all the retarded mistakes they made and still have both of them survive.a complete and utter waste of time. "},{"Title":"Piece of crap...","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie never gave me a sudden fright.It was so obvious what would happen next in the movie.And what's more annoying is that they kept playing that damn jeepers creepers song 20 million times throughout the movie.It never scared me much,although some scenes were pretty grotesque.I thought it was really boring overall and didn't keep me on edge like good horror movies should.I give it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Old school horror","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed this one! Looks and feels, and smells, like old school horror... and good horror is hard to come by. And this one reminds me somewhat of the texas chainsaw massacre and the Hitcher, maybe too much of a compliment but the actings great and the photography's above average. The dialog is outstanding for this kind of movie, making you uneasy and on your toes, not just by suspence but by making you really want to shout -Shut up and get the hell away from there. And it never falls into the trap, with catchy oneliners that often totally ruins movies of this genre.The only downside is the in-between-good-parts X-file resembelance half way through... It would have worked better without some of the FX. But all in all, ten years from now... I will probably remember this movie more than, say, Children of the corn.  "},{"Title":"Above average horror movie...","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was a refreshing horror movie.It`s of course just another rip-off of 80`s horror movies,especially Halloween,but it`s refreshing and entertaining just the same. The movie started very good as a horror road movie.But it`s the two main characters(Justin Long,Gina Philips) curiosity which draws us to the craziness.I must admit that I thought the Creeper was in fact pretty scary-in the beginning,but not in the end.The character is most scary when you see him dump bodies in that graveyard and that`s not even a close-up.You just see a very dark,tall creepy guy...I got some creeps then. Of course there are those typical things with EVERY horror movies.Due to the crazy situations there in,they can`t let go of just investigate further.Why just not get the hell out of there? They MUST see if the Creeper`s dead,instead of just drive away from the whole thing.Typical horror movies and it irritates me a lot! But as a whole;I was entertained,it WAS scary(at least the first 45 minutes),the Creeper WAS scary(the first 45 minutes),story was exciting at least for an hour-but it got unintentionally funny in the end. Never mind;it`s worth the money(though some of the effects was poor). So,to the thing I loved the most;the ENDING.Yeah! There will NOT be a sequel to this,like I Know What You Did Last Summer. One of the movie`s main characters DIED.Great! That was fresh....Rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"Scary as you can expect to be.......","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I heard about this movie from two friends of mine that have seen it. They told me it was a crap movie more funny than scary. But now that I've seen it, I've been really surprised by the quality of the scenes which gives you real bad feelings (lots more than Scream or stuff like that....). Moreover the music is retro as you can expect it to be and gives the movie a real American bad country ambient.... The only problem I have with it is that most of the behaviours of the two main characters are completely irrational even if they are facing the scariest situtations ever. But honestly I think that it makes this movie not as powerful as it would be if the staff had been working a little more on the main character's behaviours and interactions with other characters.( But maybe as I'm a latin cultured man, only my perception is different, not the reality of the movie?) Indeed I can tell you that my girlfriend still have nightmares at night since she has seen this movie. Enjoy....... "},{"Title":"Entertaining but slums into Pathetic","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In the beginning of Jeepers Creepers, the concocting sense of mystery and suspense in a boiling pot of illusion makes Jeepers Creepers scary, interesting, suspenseful, and fun in one big ball. But beware, this is only for the first half. The mysteriousness of the monster, the dimwits the kids are, and what might just become of them when they make the wrong decisions to investigate this strange creature keeps the film moving. There is a midpoint where the conflict begins to wear away and the chase between the creature and the two teens becomes old. We can tell either the director or screenwriter got desperate by a few gory sequences that just don't matter. Mix this in with some senseless plot we find out later on in the movie + a horrible, hopeless ending makes Jeepers Creepers stoop below its starting level. "},{"Title":"entertaining and kinda cool","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this movie to be pretty good, i cant say its scary really, but i dont really get scared on movies that much, but it does have a creepy feeling. I like how it all takes place in one night. Its good old fashioned style horror i really enjoyed it. granted its not the best horror movie, but its still worth a good watch or if u really enjoy it maybe even a purchase. "},{"Title":"Crazy movie","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My friends and I rented this movie to watch this evening, and I must say that although a few parts scared us, we were deeply disappointed. We expected a thrilling movie as well as a good story line.  The movie started out alright, then the main characters start to do a series of STUPID things that only make the viewer yell at them to stop.  They continue to make stupid decisions that go against all common sense, and then, just as the movie seems to be heating up, as far as the story goes, the movie ends. It's not the fact that the ending isn't a picture-perfect ending, it's that the end of the movie seems to come 2 minutes after the climax, and the viewer just cant wait to see what happens next.  BUT for a special treat, watch the credits entirely, because at the very end, there's a special surprise.  "},{"Title":"weak plot not helped by poor directing","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie started quite light heartedly with both brother and sister driving up to their parents with familiar brother and sister squabbles. Though the special effects is not too bad, the actual film footage with the encounter with the mutant is very disappointing. In one scene the duo decides to stand ground and battle with the mutant despite the horrific events earlier. This may provide interesting film footage but does not develop any sense of realism  or credibility amongst the audience with the central characters. The plot continues to be more confusing with the introduction of a psychic who claims she has witnessed all the events and knows the future. Although I could not figure out why the teenage boy held such importance to the physic.  In conclusion, a movie with an extremely weak plot and failing to arouse the audience with unbelievable dramatic scenes. "},{"Title":"stylish,original and very scary","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Over the years we have encountered so-called horror movies that were not scary at all. Scream,I know what you did last summer,urban legend-all of these were entertaining and very clever,BUT they were not at all horror movies. True horror is when a movie keeps you so intensified and when your eyes are  glued to the movie screen because you are wondering what happens next,you bite your nails,you close your eyes,you lean over to your significant other.Jeepers Creepers has all the elements of a true horror movie.You will be truely horrified by the Creeper. This movie had everything I always asked for in a horror movie,exactly that-- HORROR!!!!!!!!!!IF you are a horror fan,I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly different!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After being bombarded with 'Scream' spin offs, 'Jeepers Creepers' was a refreshing Horror Flick to watch.This is a great Indie film which uses suspense to great effect. It had me sitting on the edge of my chair, more so than the 'Blair Witch Project'.A 'Must See!' if you are a fan of scary low budget horror and tired of the special effects mob.   "},{"Title":"I guess I liked it","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me try to explain why I liked this B-style creature feature.Our resident baddie is the Creeper, and I'm not sure what it is exactly, but thats okay because neither does writer/director Victor Salva. At least he claims ambiguity toward the Creepers' true identity on the Special Edition DVD, but that simply means he doesn't know.The Creepers drives around in a truck and runs folks off the road when he feels frisky. He carries around some kind of battle axe and at a certain moment, he lops off some guy's head.Now here's my favorite part of the movie. He drags the body over to his truck and heaves it in the back with all his other bodies, slamming the door. Two or three seconds of darkness . . . then one door cracks open, and the Creeper just tosses the severed head in, like it was his backpack.There's a kooky humor, dark and grizzly, but catchy and hilarious if it catches you in the right mood. This film isn't a great movie, and most of the time it tries pretty damn hard to be a good movie. But right when you get tired of the running and screaming, there comes along a moment of bizarre comedy thats unexpected, and those moments are worth the trip for me.I like horror movies, and I love bad horror movies, and its nice that Hollywood hasn't forgotten the fun of a good creature feature after all the slasher movies ran their course in the late 90's. I guess if I could change anything, I'd want a creature who's design didn't so closely parallel a monster of the week from Buffy the Vampire Slayer, but then I feel I'm asking too much from the creative team that brought us the crap-tacular Powder.Jeepers Creepers ranks a 7 out of 10, but as a warning, you should know I'm somewhat biased to this genre. "},{"Title":"What's really eating me...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is nothing more than another low-budget teen horror flick with gross and gore being the primary focus instead of horror or suspense.The only question is why does the director of The Godfather lend his name to this type of rubbish. That's what really eating me. "},{"Title":"GOOD AT FIRST, A LITTLE LESS WHEN I SAW IT ON VIDEO","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JEEPERS CREEPER is at first glance a good creepy film. Nice mood and cool creepy elements. Cool looking weird car. But when I watched it again I started to see the frayed edges of the story coming out. Just too many things that just seemed tossed into the mix to spice it up. Like that cooking guy EMERIL... BAM... Let's take it up a few notches!  BAM... Throw in a ton of dead bodies.  BAM... Throw in a weird car with a strange vanity plate.  BAM... Throw in a psychic.  BAM... A weird discombobulated creature. BAM...  But then all those BAMS starts raising other questions and things just start to fall apart some. I think it's a good harmless flick but it doesn't really go beyond that when you look at the details. And maybe that's my problem.. Looking at details on a horror flick. "}{"Title":"Worthless.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've never in my life seen anything so ridiculous. This movie was a complete waste of my seven dollars.  An idiotic brother/sister duo see a creepy guy dumping some body-like object down a chute in the ground, and like anyone begging to die, they go wandering deeper into the land of stupidity by following.  The movie reveals thousands of lose ends that they try to close by introducing a psychic who can tell that they're in danger, just by chance.   When I went to see this EVERYONE in the theater was yelling at the screen and I personally was being stressed out because they were being so stupid. Don't see this movie. Unless you're drunk enough that you won't remember it.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, classy horror flick","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a smart, creepy movie.  It starts absolutely great, and does lose a little steam about halfway through.  But it stays interesting to the end.  The ending is quite unusual, however, and I expect that much of the negative voting about this movie might well have to do with that.  Otherwise, negative votes are cast because people were expecting a slasher type movie, which this is not.  If you enjoy older horror movies, and want something similar but much more up-to-date, this will work for you. "},{"Title":"Good Solid Entertainment","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Even though the potty-mouthed aspects of the script often work against them, Gina Philips and Justin Long, rise above it all, to turn in likeable and entertaining performances.  The first half hour or so, is more satisfying than what follows; but the entire film is engrossing, with more than a few scares, to jolt even the most hardened horror film fan.  The supporting cast is first-rate, and the direction is mostly competent.  Excellent cinematography, effects and editing.  Destined to take its place among the horror classics! Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Good start","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half hour or so of this film is terrific, very creepy. But it can't sustain the suspense and by the end is just like every other so called horror film that Hollywood churns out these days. To me horror films are much more frightening when the audience gets to use its own imagination and not be subjected to sloppy b-movie effects. The scene early in the film when the brother and sister drive past a figure seemingly dumping bodies down a pipe was very eerie but then the film just gets dafter and dafter. Now I fully expect Jeepers Creepers IV to be coming straight to video near you in 2005 or so. "},{"Title":"This really sucks! Coppola is nuts!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I mean, for the love of God! What the hell is this movie about? Characters that appear from nowhere, nonsense plots, unresolved questions of the story... and the kids were dumber than a cardboard. I refuse to spend more time talking about a movie that should never have been made. Sucks! "},{"Title":"Where did you get that ending?","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ( SPOILERS) When this movie started I was full of anticipation. The obvious comparisons to 'Duel' were very apparent and there is nothing like an unseen, faceless psychopath in a rusty old truck to get the adrenalin going. For me - the scariest bit that got me to the point of very nearly chickening out of the whole experience was the sequence where they drove past what appeared to be an Ed Gein character dumping bodies down a pipe and then promptly persecuting our 'heroes'. The way that scene was shot and the sense of evil and forboding was just about all that I could take. Then -after a few stupid and totally ridiculous decisions we steered into predictabilityville. I was expecting Sarah Michelle Gellar and the rest of the Scooby gang to rear their naive heads. In order to maintain the fear we have to firstly, not be able to see the persecutor, the said persecutor has to be human and therefore at least a partial match for our heroes. The power of suggestion is everything. We do not need a cuddly psychic to point out the intricacies of the threat and what it is he is after.At that point we know what we are dealing with and the threat fades and the whole thing becomes pointless. Although I was disappointed, I still think it was worth watching just for the first 20 or so minutes. "},{"Title":"Scary as Hell!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Justin Long and Gina Philips portray two kids coming home from wherever they've been; in this terrifying and suspenseful supernatural/slasher film. Not since the power of Michael Myers and Freddy Krueger have I seen anything as malevolent or gruesome as this one.  Unbelievable.  I was caught completely off guard when I saw this one.  From minute one you are absolutely hooked on this film.  There are so many jolting scenes.  I don't think I've ever jumped so much in my life during one film.  This is an absolute for any horror film buff or any movie buff period.  Great special effects and surprisingly good acting.  Let me tell you this is one of the best films in any genre that I have ever seen.  And I've seen lots of films. Please take my advice and check this one out.  Oh, and take a peep at that ending; it's something else. "},{"Title":"Scary as Hell!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Justin Long and Gina Philips portray two kids coming home from wherever they've been; in this terrifying and suspenseful supernatural/slasher film. Not since the power of Michael Myers and Freddy Krueger have I seen anything as malevolent or gruesome as this one.  Unbelievable.  I was caught completely off guard when I saw this one.  From minute one you are absolutely hooked on this film.  There are so many jolting scenes.  I don't think I've ever jumped so much in my life during one film.  This is an absolute for any horror film buff or any movie buff period.  Great special effects and surprisingly good acting.  Let me tell you this is one of the best films in any genre that I have ever seen.  And I've seen lots of films. Please take my advice and check this one out.  Oh, and take a peep at that ending; it's something else.  I give this film an A. "},{"Title":"lost me","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had the potential to be a really good horror movie.  A scary monster, lots of dead people... it started out pretty interesting.  But the whole psychic thing was stupid and played out very badly, the movie lost me right there & just got worse after that.  This is definitely one that you should watch only on cable if you absolutely have nothing better to do.  "},{"Title":"lost me","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had the potential to be a really good horror movie.  A scary monster, lots of dead people... it started out pretty interesting.  But the whole psychic thing was stupid and played out very badly, the movie lost me right there & just got worse after that.  This is definitely one that you should watch only on cable if you absolutely have nothing better to do.  "}{"Title":"Oh Dear.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first 30 minutes of the film was scary and really good, but from there on it went down hill.  For me the plot got too elaborate for the film itself and it started to get a bit predictable.  If the atmosphere of the first half hour had been sustained throughout the film, then the film would be absolutely fantastic. "},{"Title":"Complete & Utter Garbage","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this last night being a horror fan looking forward to watch this scary film.  Well what a complete waste of £3 and 1 1/2 hrs of my time. The effects were rubbish and very plastic looking. The film which started off looking good slipped into a load of garbage which had no sense at all. The ending which is meant to be gripping is a complete waste of time. Do yourself a favour watch something else (Like Paint Dry)  "},{"Title":"Nice try (major spoiler)","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, I will address the issue that many people will think of first. Namely, the controversy surrounding director Victor Salva. I want to make it clear that I do not condone anything he has done. However, that has nothing to do with the film itself. That being said...Salva was clearly not inspired by 80's slashers, but by the monster movies of old, particularly Creature From the Black Lagoon. The similarity is to obvious to be ignored. It is not a gorefest, but a legitimate attempt to give the audience a good scare. Unfortunately, it falls short of the mark.The first half of the film is the strongest. It effectively builds suspense, as two college kids encounter an evil force in a deceptively ordinary setting. The banter between Philips and Long could have been annoying, but in this case it's actually refreshing at times, making the characters more believable.Sadly, Jeepers Creepers runs aground in the final act. The scenes in the police station are far too routine and predictable. At the very least a little firepower would have livened things up. Furthermore, the physic woman is an unnecessary and tiresome character who should have met a gruesome fate. However, the ending is genuinely creepy.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by American Zeotrope through United Artists "},{"Title":"Where DID you get those peepers?","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since I missed out and did not see JEEPERS CREEPERS in theaters, I got stuck with the video. The first half of the film is the best. It develops the characters and you learn to care for them slightly. Here's the plot (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)A brother and sister are driving home for spring break to see their mother when they encounter a man/thing who appears to be dumping a body down a pipe. He begins to relentlessly stalk them throughout the rest of the movie. And up until (*MAJOR SPOILER*) we see the creatures face! That just ruins the entire movie right there! That's it! With one shot, the entire movie is wasted! See how easily your movie can go sh!t? Just like that. The rest of the movie pretty much sucks. Plain and simple. Good up until the very middle. While it sounds vaugely similar to JOY RIDE, it is not. JOY RIDE is much better!*POSSIBLE SPOILER* Atleast in JOY RIDE you don't get to see the villian's identity half way through the movie! Writer/Director Victor Salva tried for something new, had it with the first half and just lets it slide down the toilet. What the hell was he thinking?!?! He had the chance to create a genre defying horror film and he just lets it slip away. !POOF! Just like that. And the worse news is that they're making a sequel. And what's even worse is that people (me probably being one of them) will be suckered into going to see it. It is really sad to think that people actually make money off of this bogus. I give this one 3/5 because of the good beginning and for that fact that it was able to make me jump once or twice throughout the coarse of the beginning. "},{"Title":"Fresh New ideas, just not that good enough.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ive always heard mixed things about this film before I watched it, and I thought it was another high school killer type of film.I however was pleasantly surprised. The beginning of the film starts off however pretty boring. It was too long and not very interesting until the truck appears.The story was a great idea, it just wasnt executed very well.There were too many nit picks as well in the film. Nearly one every scene, and the dead bodys looked incredibly fake.Finally, the ending good have been better.Its worth a rent, just dont buy it full price though. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Sweepers","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My first reaction and thoughts when I heard about this film were that it was going to be seriously overhyped. However, it turned out to be quite a good movie which I thoroughly enjoyed watching. The start of the film with 'The Creeper' chasing the brother and sister in the car is definatly inspired by Steven Spielberg's excellent film 'Duel'. The camera shots particulary remind me of that film.A thouroughly enjoyable film and up there with the best horror I have seen to date.Rating 7/10, and that's being harsh. "},{"Title":"a terrific horro filmf!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  when i frist rented this movie i thought it was gonna be another stupid teen horror movie with a killer at the end turns out to be obvious and one little girl lives...but it wasnt it was an unforgetable monster movie witha twisted ending, if you like suspense go and see this movie and if you like scarin your self until you pee your pants go and see it this movie is one of the best horror movies i've seen in a long time... "},{"Title":"Gets unconvincing towards the end (major spoilers)","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is cheapened by the fact that it tacks on a downbeat ending when it doesn't really need to. I think they were trying to go for that Blair Witch vibe. There is something quite unsatisfying dramatically about the horror villain triumphing, after his existence has been revealed to the world at large. I mean, the Creeper's going to have the National Guard go after him after attacking all those cops. Its not like he's really going to get away with it, and easily slip back in to obscurity, as the film implies. So in this case a more conventional  ending might have actually served the film better. "},{"Title":"This Movie Sucks!!!!! (Half Spoiler)","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First off, why would anyone write a stupid as movie as Jeepers Creepers nowadays?  I mean what the hell a monster as the killer in the movie?  I mean this isn't 1939 anymore, movies such as King Kong or Godzilla aren't scary anymore.  Monsters just aren't scary!  The movie starts off really good, but after about 20 minutes or so you realize how unbelievably moronic it is.  I have some good info for all of you out there considering to buy or rent this movie.  DON'T!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the greatest horror movies since the likes of Halloween, the Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Scream. Not only does it keep your heart beating from the beginning, it leaves you with a spine that tingles long after the final credits have finished rolling.This movie is seriously underrated. The plot is extremely original, the acting is spot-on, and the ending superb.Several scenes scared me to the core. The images of the walls and ceiling full of bodies, the opening chase by The Creeper, and the final shot of Daryll's eye sockets.Go and watch this movie (but don't eat before you do!) "}{"Title":"Coppola should have been the 1st victim","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why would Francis Ford Coppola be involved in this piece of garbage? They must have paid him dearly to list him as exec producer.  Very formulaic.  An old urban legend (gee, might it be true?), 2 teens on a lonely stretch of highway (I wonder if they'll make it?), an encounter with a lunatic (will they have the sense to get out of there?), a clairvoyant woman that everyone thinks is crazy (or is she?), a stupid ending that she predicts (ooh, how eerie!) OK, I just saved you the trouble of watching.  Do something fun with your time. "},{"Title":"Horrible, weak, must see","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie I have ever seen. Way too many things were left unanswered, scenes change right in the middle of explanations multiple times. Gina Phillips wasn't bad but one person can not carry the entire movie, especially with writing as bad as this. People just don't act this stupid, even in horror movies. The characters got everything they deserved. But I will recommend people to SEE IT, yes please see it; if you like low budget gory horror films, ie. evil dead 1 and 2, then you will love this. This is a horrible movie, but I will enjoy it again and again laughing every time; maybe it should have been released as a comedy. "},{"Title":"Monster is more just plain silly looking than anything...","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The main reason why this film is not the LEAST BIT SCARY is because the 'monster' or whatever this thing is supposed to be (a giant bird?) is so preposterous looking as to NOT be the least bit scary.  A psycho HUMAN killer is scary because people like this really do exist.  Giant killer birds do NOT exist, therefore how can anyone be scared of one in a movie?I can't help but think that this movie had a certain homo-erotic theme to it - the monster sniffing the guy's underwear!  Why were we told so adamently (and shown, as well) the fact that the clothes in the back seat consisted mostly of dirty (mens) underwear?  The lead character is so obviously gay that it wouldn't surprise me if there weren't some underlying themes to the movie that have not really been brought out in the open...mind you, I'm not complaining about this, openly gay characters should be featured more often in movies (though in this case, Darry was not openly gay, he only 'seemed' like it) because it would only be a reflection of modern life.Other than being able to hear Justin Long's character talking about his pink underwear and the sight of him stripping his shirt off, in my opinion this movie is a total waste of time.  And what kind of an ending was that - THAT kind of an ending is NEVER supposed to happen in a movie! "},{"Title":"Finally a high budget horror film that isn't a Scream rip-off","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since 1996 it's been pretty rare to see A horror film That wasn't a sequel to an 80's movie - (e.g Halloween H20 , Bride Of Chucky)or some who's the killer slasher films So Jeepers Creepers is a breather from the Popular Plague of Scream rip off's with a plot lines that are about as original as a Britney Spears song. Jeepers Creepers has an original villian, Great special FX , A GOOD PLOT LINE , and promise for a sequel. I give it an 8 on a 1 to 10 scale  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spoilers are indirectly mentioned here.  You have been warned.  Here is the psychology of why people say some movies were disappointing and what have you.  When your expectations are high about a movie created from the trailers, it creates a sense of you'll be watching a great movie.  Then you get suckered in watching a film and you get a feeling of discontent.  It's hype that destroys a movie when it doesn't live up to its expectations.  Obviously, Hollywood would rather spend the money on hyping the movie than telling a good story.  The movie rakes in the dough at the box office in the first week, like any other movie.  After that, it's way downhill from there.What made this movie scary was entering into the unknown of what this person or creature really is.  They should have concealed his face throughout the movie.  I got really turned off when this creature's face got revealed and has wings like a bat a la vampire. Darry should have thrown his unwashed underwear at the Creepers face.  A good alternative to garlic )  Oh wait, the Creeper did smell his underwear, NO WONDER he wanted Darry.  GREAT, here you have a creature who gets infatuated from body odour.  I got a cool idea for a Tide commercial.  Two mothers each clean their clothes in a laundry mat environment.  One using Tide the other a no-name brand.  Once the clothes are clean, each one puts their clothes in their own laundry basket.  Out of the blue, the Creeper crashes through the window.  An off camera voice says, `Which one the Creeper prefers?' Enter in the Creeper, smelling each ones laundry.  Creeper smells the clothes which was cleaned using Tide.  He immediately gets turned off by the squeaky clean clothes.  Then he smells the clothes washed using the no-name brand.  The Creeper smells and smells intensely every passing sniff.  He spreads his wings, quickly taking the laundry basket and the mother as they fly towards the broken window.  They never be seen again as they fly towards the horizon.  The Mom who is left standing in the laundry mat looks through the broken window and shaking her head says, `I should have taught Darry to use Tide.'It's good to have Jezelle, the psychic in the movie but some of the things are absurd.  She says when you hear the `Jeepers Creepers' song is just plain pitiful and makes the movie even more predictable.  When both Darry and Trish were being escorted by the cop, Trish's radio surfing came across a remake version of  `Jeepers Creepers'. We all know what happens from here.  Think about this question for a minute, how come the psychic knows so much about the Creeper?  Towards the end of the movie, the psychic lead Darry and Trish into a room where the doors are locked!  I think the psychic did that on purpose besides denying it towards the two of them.  I wish there was some sort of connection between the psychic and the Creeper.  She is probably helping him  feast and lead Darry to his death.  Hmm... makes you wonder.  This would lead to the eventual sequel.To sum it up, an unfulfilled flick where the creature drives in a souped up truck!  Man, this guy got some serious nitrous oxide!  The best part has to be the first half of the movie. From there, it's like a crashing stock market, SELL SELL SELL!  The movies slogan should have been, `If you reek B.O., look out for... the CRREE - (sudden change of voice) oh what the HELL, if you wanna live go take a BATH!'  Say this is in the late Vincent Price like voice.  Hey, he did it for Michael Jackson's `Thriller' ) "},{"Title":"terrifyingly awful","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Aside from some creepy moments when the thing (and I only say that because they never explain what it is or what it really wants) is hunting people, this was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  There's no real plot, no explanation on what the song Jeepers Creepers has to do with the movie, why it's hunting these kids in particular.  I felt like eating the rented DVD just so I could poop it out later and put the movie where it really belongs. Don't waste your time, even if it's on free previews or whatever. "},{"Title":"This is a good one!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have been a horror movie fan since birth and have been very disappointed in most of today's films. I believe most films today would rather make you sick rather than scare you. But Jeepers Creepers actually made me feel creepy. The only other film that created a similar impression was the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The scenes and setting all worked together to create macabre. I think the worst thing about the movie was the title, which I think makes the movie sound cheap. Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"This One Just Misses","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   I went into this movie expecting another teenage slasher movie in the Friday the 13th vein. What I got was at first, a very suspenseful and imaginative film, that is until the Creeper comes onto the scene. The first half of the film was very good. It had a few imaginative scares and kept the viewer guessing as to what would happen next. Gina Philips and Justine Long play brother/sister Trish and Darry (both are excellent) returning home from college. Along the way, they are harassed by an armored truck that rams their car from behind and then speeds away. Later they see the driver of the truck unloading a suspicious cargo at a deserted church and dumping it down a sewer pipe. After another encounter with the truck they return to the church to investigate. What they find leads to their meeting with the Creeper (Jonathon Breck). I know from the DVD commentary that writer/director Victor Salva purposely kept the Creeper shrouded in mystery. But I felt cheated by not knowing who he was, where he came from and what his purpose was. Besides, when you see him (he looks like a cross between the Creature From the Black Lagoon and the creature from Alien), his very appearance begs these questions. A lot of mysteries remained unsolved. Could it be that Mr. Salva is planning a Jeepers Creepers 2? To his credit, Salva keeps the blood and guts to a minimum, choosing instead to let the viewer's imagination do the thinking. Too bad he got carried away with his monster. A more conventional and explainable monster would have made for a better picture in my estimation. "},{"Title":"Absolute Crap!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought i saw a terrible movie last week when i sat through American Pie 2 but this film was worse.Like most people say,don't waste your money!............it's the usual stupid kids with s**t for brains,would you go back to the church after what you'd seen!,so predictable that myself and friends found ourselves saying what was going to happen next like 'i wonder what song will come on when they turn the radio on'.This is positively a waste of money and i only spent £3.75 renting it!SAVE YOUR MONEY!AVOID AT ALL COSTS!YOU WILL BE DISAPPOINTED!John(sumadartson) "},{"Title":"Did anyone see the movie Duel?","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having just watched this supposed scariest movie of the last 10 years i was left thinking why did the makers bother wasting their time making it and making us waste our time and money going to see this, it pure tripe! and thats being nice as well.A guy and a girl in a car travelling down an empty road (shot so you can see whats coming behind them just in case) then all of a sudden a big vehicle tries to run them off the road (oh dear god no!). Mmmmmmm somebody with a bad number plate in an armoured type vehicle with road rage tendencies following round this car and the driver isnt known (well at least until later at least in this movie).I couldnt put my finger on it at the time but now i realise its a straight cut and shut job of that old Spielberg movie Duel from the late 70's, the one where a guy is being chased across desert roads by an armoured car and he never gets to see who the driver is!  Now that was a good movie and much better than this dross fest.I think there was two creepy bits in this movie for me (note them here 2! and not scary either as the lovely sloogan would try and make me believe!)Number one came when they saw the truck parked the sight of a figure dumping a body down a big hole and him just standing there and looking as they went past to me was a bit creepy. Number two came when the lad found the room of bodies plastered to the ceiling that was pretty creepy and weird as well but that was it!If you have the best part of two hours to waste on an afternoon or evening, dont waste it watching this, you will regret it and wonder why you didnt just put on a friends video, i wish i had!  "}{"Title":"Oh dear - what went wrong?","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Other than the scene with the guy chucking the bodies down the tube at the beginning, and one or two other tense moments, Jeepers Creepers is  a dreadful horror film which feels disjointed.  It is as if the film runs out of plot after a time, and the bits with the physic towards the end are just awful.  Even worse is the girl trying to talk the monster into taking her instead, only for the monster to fly off with her brother anyway (what was that about?).  One of the other major dissapointments was the effects of the dead bodies in the pit, they looked totally plastic like tailors dummies. I wasn't even sure if they were supposed to be real bodies or not!I was interested in the comments one user made about an underlying theme of incest.  This does seem to fit, although the film was so brainless it was probably just an accident because the stars were attracted to each other in real life!  I'm not sure if Jeepers Creepers had levels as such.One thing I was suprised to not see mentioned here however was no-one seeing the similarities to the Spielberg movie Duel.  Am I getting this wrong or was the truck/diner/local reaction etc. not all straight out of that film? I even expected a Dennis Weaver cameo is was so blatant.My advice, give this one a wide berth. "},{"Title":"bwahahahahahahaha","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film looks more like an episode of some kind than an actual movie. Poorly written(so many holes in the script u wouldnt believe it ¬), looks also incomplete and fails its cause which is to scare i believe O_o. Anywayz its just a movie, a movie that i wouldnt even rent at a videostore (forget about going to the cinema to watch it). The scary part though was that some people considered it (O_o) as a great horror movie and that's disgusting!!! Where is this world coming to???? "},{"Title":"How creepy this can be","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers is in his genre a very good movie, ok, if you will compare it with the best Drama movies this will come out as fair probably.The story isn't that excellent, but the line in this movie they have taken is very reasonable with sometimes some scenes that makes you think Why don't they just get away and leave?.  Over 500-600 body's in a cellar, a boy that's been into that cellar, a creeper that wants him...  "},{"Title":"The definition of horror","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Overall Opinion Seeing this movie will probably ruin any other horror titles for you. It's ruthless, unpromising and totally pushes aside the rules that regular earth dwelling humans think apply. Now, of course there's no actual monsters out to get anyone in real life but this movie does a REAL good job of convincing you that there is.Plus and Minus Material+Great perormances by Justin Long & Gina Phillips+Really original for a typical monster movie-Hey I'm not gonna lie to you, it's disgusting+Truly scary-As shockingly unexpected as the ending is, you might walk away feeling pretty bad  "},{"Title":"Could've been great.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had the potential to be absolutely amazing.  Like, remember when you saw Scream for the first time?  It had the potential to be that good...or better.  The first half of the movie was genius.  They absolutely ruined the entire picture once they actually showed the monster's face. It was so incredibly hokey.  The movie was all downhill from there...and the ending sucked.  I was incredibly disappointed.  You'll save yourself some huge disappointment if you just watch the first half hour and then turn it off.   "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was pretty cool. The only thing I didnt like about it was the ending. It made no sense at all. Other than that it was pretty good. The music was cool. My friends told me not to watch this movie cause it was stupid but I liked it. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie. I loved it until it came to the ending! "},{"Title":"Read Between the Lines","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Note Spoilers ahead; This movie is not so much a horror flick or monster movie but a story of incest......read between the lines..at the beginning of the film the sister could not keep her hands off her brothers underwear in the back seat, several times glancing back noticing his jock shorts and touching them, always talking about them until he settled the situation by saying they were for the mom to wash, and the brother always making sexual remarks to excite his sister then trying to get her to talk about her relationship with her x-boyfriend, that was just the beginning, then there was the touching,when she held on to his ankles while he peered down into the pipe, sexual tension was building as she could not keep her eyes of his butt,but only let go when attracted by the rats...the Creeper really represents the tortured fantasy they have for each other, something to draw them close so they can hug each others bodies...half way through the film again they witness the Creeper sniffing the cloths of the sister and brother...it goes on through the whole movie, he eyes her body all the time, her touching his chest, they long to kiss you can feel the tension. .This is an example of a director exposing his personal experiences with incest and placing them on the screen for all to see. Creepers is Creepy.  "},{"Title":"That movie owes me an hour and a half","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think this movie is overrated. The plot is to thin to keep the attention of the audience for the whole length of the movie. It's like watching a Halloween-flick once again.I was pretty thrilled by the beginning of the movie. Where the evil thing is unknown and the teenagers has no idea what's going on what so ever. But then they find out what's been chasing them and the whole movie crashed like ground zero. When the movie was finished I felt like I had just thrown an hour and a half out the window. So my advice to ya'll Don't spend money in this flick, it's just another wannabe horror-movie that fails.  "},{"Title":"Pitiful, Just Pitiful","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't recall the last time I've seen such an awful movie.  The plot was dumb, as were the main characters.  I was hoping that the brother and sister would be killed before they had a chance to spread their stupid genes. Like others commenting on this movie, I figured they were throwaway characters as well.Dumb ideas were evident throughout this movie Hey Vern!  Let's go back to the church!  Hey Vern!  Hang onto my feet while I climb down this pipe for a better look!  Hey Vern!  You wait at the end of the driveway for the bad guy to come back!  Hey Vern!  How come there's so many cops in this little town, especially on the night shift?  Hey Vern!  Let's not go for help, let's see if we can help these people, despite the fact that we have no equipment and no brains to operate it anyways!Okay!  This is a HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE film!  The REAL scary part is that they're making a sequel!!!Save your money!!! "},{"Title":"Immortal sadistic demon from the age of swing!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning  For the purpose of tearing up this movie, spoilers are included. Plow forward at your own risk.I don't usually watch horror movies, but I had no choice but to watch this on the charter bus as there was not much else to do.  Although the demon was pretty cool looking and I liked when Derri shouted INBREEDING, the rest of the movie was pretty damn terrible.  Somehow it didn't seem right that Joel, Tom, and Crow weren't in front of it.Unnecessarily gory and disgusting, this movie didn't scare me, only grossed me out.  The two main characters are complete idiots.  Yes, let's crawl down this dank and stinky tunnel in front of the abandoned old church with dozens of crows roosting on it; that sounds like a good idea.  Nothing else to do. I guess they never stopped to think that there would be an unstoppable demon (who really loves old jazz) who's after their sight organs storing his junk down there.After they've seen a pit crammed with mutilated corpses and were almost run over by a psycho-piloted truck, you'd think they would listen to the wise old lady giving warnings over the phone.  But, no, they just curse at her and get some hapless cops to help them.  It's not really the cops' fault, though, as those idiot kids should have just driven on home and reported the guy, who, although he's a sadistic creature from Hell, has a convenient, easy-to-remember vanity license plate.And, I'm sorry, but the male lead looks incredibly stupid when he's scared. A few minutes into the movie me and my friend couldn't help but burst into giggles every time he put on that thin-faced, poochy lipped, bug-eyed stare.I wonder what the musical selection will be in the sequel? Perhaps the demon will pick up prostitutes to the tune of Cab's Minnie the Moocher, or graft farm animal parts onto the kids while jamming to A Chicken Ain't Nothing But A Bird.  I'd go and see that. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly scary, surprisingly anticlimatic.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie, with a name like Jeepers Creepers, automatically implies to the audience that it is going to be pretty damn scary, and with some above average (i'm faltering on saying superb) acting from the two lead roles, the first half an hour of the film is by all accounts up there with the best in terms of really gripping the audience and having them on the edge of their seat. I was expecting yet another American teen-horror movie with no originality, and i have to say that i was pleasantly surprised (for the first half atleast). The film then seems to take a turn down much-trodden paths and becomes predictable, as i envisaged the whole film to be. While the finale is fairly shocking, i felt that a lot more development to the story could have been made - it wasn't through lack of time, the film is not long by any means. Overall, i would recommend the film to people who like a good scare, but be warned that it will become predicable half way through, although it is worth watching as the very end offers a surprising conclusion. Not a classic by any means. "},{"Title":"My jaw still aches from my chin hitting the floor...","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **********Possible SPOILERS********************* Ok, I like to think of myself as a connoisseur of horror movies. I will watch anything scary.  SO, I watched Jeepers Creepers... and I have never been more disappointed in a movie since I watched What Lies Beneath.(which was awful, too)This was a combination of Maximum Overdrive, Pitch Black (at the end)and House on Haunted Hill.The ending is a complete and utter disappointment.  After all they went through, it appeared the sister did nothing to help.  My chin was on the floor.The only redeeming part of the movie was Justin Long's performance. He honestly looked scared, I can only guess it's because he knew how bad this movie was. "},{"Title":"well I liked it...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, just saw this movie a few hours ago and was excited to read what you fellas think about it. I liked it,the kids played not too dumb, their conversation (especially in the beginning) was quite cool and at least, I enjoyed the monster. Well,´I´M sure that Todd McFarlane and his toy-industry will appreciate that fact even more than i do ( can´t wait to get the Creeper with the hatchet!),but when do you remember the last time you saw a winged demon on the screen? LOTR aside!To resume, it´s worth the few bucks and kind of relaxing, not too serious, but do you really expect that from a movie called JEEPERS CREEPERS?  "},{"Title":"A great idea that went terribly wrong","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***WARNING****CONTAINS SPOILERS***This movie had some great elements an enigmatic spook, lots of suspense, mystery and the constant wondering what is this guy made of? It cleverly and steadily builds up for an hour and a half, then the brother is kidnapped, he's killed, movie's over. What the heck just happened? What was the point of the build up? There was no explanation as to where the creature came from, why he feeds every 23 years, how he preserves the victims and why sew a head back on? Also, why did the creeper need to slice the brother in half vertically only to take his eyes? Why didn't he get eyes from any of the other victims? Why the brother? What did the siblings' conversation about the mother have to do with the story? On, and on and on. Lots of questions...no answers.I was terribly disappointed.  "},{"Title":"My Review","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was the first horror movie that I deliberately chose to watch.I've been a fan of Justin Long since he portrayed the young 'Questerian' in Galaxy Quest.  Very talented. da Salva's done a great Job.  I jumped so many times during this movie, and I was watching it during the late afternoon!  I appreciated how he tried to avoid the Gore and blood letting that is so common in the horror film industry.  Relatively bloodless, and still gets the point across.  Less _is_ more.  Good one da Salva. Very well done.  The characters are very believable, and the acting is done well.Only a couple complaints, 1  The bumper on the car is not very continuous.  (I won't give anything away, but notice that the bumper doesn't always look the same)  2  At one scene, Darry (Long) is pulling Trish (Phillips) away, and she's struggling, and he shakes a finger at her.  There is no dialogue, there is just grunting as they pull on each other.  I was confused as to this, and wonder if maybe that was something that missed the cutting room floor, or if it was supposed to be used in another shot and somehow made it in.  I don't know.  I was confused, though.Besides that, flawless, well done.  You could really get a feel that there was a sibling relationship that existed between the characters.The ending was very disturbing to my 'conventional ending' sensebilities.  It was very fitting, it was just not what I was expecting.  I also throughly enjoyed da Salva's 'red-herrings' throughout the film to make you wonder what's really going to happen.  All in all, very well done.  I would love to see another like it.  Kudos to all involved. "},{"Title":"Refreshing and totally ok.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't read this review until after you've seen the movie!Just finished watching Jeepers Creepers. After, as I usually do, I checked in with IMDB to see what my fellow people thought.  What the hell were you people that are putting this movie down expecting?I hadn't heard or seen anything from this movie before I saw it, and the experience reminded me of when I saw From Dusk till Dawn, also without previous information. That movie, like this one, started off at one pace and then changed. That doesn't necessarily make this a bad movie. If it had been inconsequent, then I'd agree with that it was bad. But it wasn't. It changed a good deal during the development of the storyline, but it didn't offer any dumbass solutions or go against itself, something that is very common within this genre.  The idea with the siblings was good. Makes for a nice change from the four-to-six-youngsters-rent-a-cabin-in-the-woods-routine. The scaryass truck with its scaryass horn was frightening. Another good thing was that the car chase-scenes took place during daylight, something that made it even more disturbing. That and the fact that the first time you see the Creeper he is very relaxed with dumping bodies down the pipe during afternoon sun.The fact that the brother/sister-team react realistically (your guess is as good as mine) to what they see and that they share screenpower, that is to say one of the leads aren't naturally the hero or ridiculously stupid, is also refreshing.  The dialogue was above par, without the usual do's and don'ts of the genre. Also, for the people who are putting this movie down - learn to watch for what's relevant and what's not. Where did he get his custom-made license-plates?, Where does he keep his car?, How can he drive the car if he hasn't put gas in it for 23 years? Who knows? We have no information to tell us what he did before we met him. If you accept the fact that the antagonist is a demon, what is it about the gas that bothers you?>I for one am glad that this movie got to be made. With the reviving of the horror-genre there's been so much unbelievable tripe that this movie, which takes an ironical, intelligent and entertaining stance, is a pleasant surprise. My rating 6/10  "},{"Title":"Surprising good horror flick","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *** SPOILER ALERT !!! *** I didn't know what to expect. It got some great reviews but on the other hand the horror movies of late were a bit disappointing (excluding The Others of course!) I'm glad that horror movies still have a future after instant forgettable films such as Dracula 2000,Soul Survivors and Urban Legends-Final Cut. But lets talk about the movie; Refreshing new faces in the likes of Justin Long and the gorgeous Gina Philips (I think we'll see much more of her in the future !) who play siblings. Then there's the Creeper. What I liked about the movie was that you didn't know what the siblings were up against in the beginning. It created some real tension in the first half of the movie but then the gore kicks in. But still much better than most films deliver. The ending wasn't quite the twist I expected ,  but much better than the original ending I caught on DVD. In my view we have a new horror cult figure in the form of the Creeper (a crossing between an old disfigured man,a vampire and a lizard). But I have to say that I'm holding my breath concerning the sequel. But at least it's directed by the same director who also wrote the first movie. And I'm really hoping Gina Philips will return for the second outing. And before I forget , the director has a cameo. Watch the walls as Justin Long enters the chamber of death. A must see movie !!! "},{"Title":"Pee-YEW! One of the worst I've ever seen.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Got our money's worth (four bux on pay-per-view) in one way only  This flick is such a world-class stinker that it's actually an unintentional comedy.  Half an hour into it, we were hooting and throwing beer caps at the screen.To say that the two main characters in this are morons is to painfully understate.  Hate to say it, but we wound up rooting for the bad guy! Dari and Trish (ugh!) are so dumb and so purely annoying, they BELONG on a meathook somewhere.Un-spooky, un-scary, utterly cliche, and totally predictable.  Save your money for something much more fun... like a Pepto-Bismol chugging contest.They're making a sequel?  Now THAT's scary....... "},{"Title":"obvious","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Bad acting, badly done, cheap effects.  And now there's a sequel coming out?  If nothing else, it's amusing to see the slasher flicks returning to their roots killing off high school kids and cheerleaders.  I would recommend this film for group viewing with friends and drinks at home.  B Eating U ) "},{"Title":"Jepper's Retarded Creepers","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie starts off in the OK range, after 45 min it moves down to BAD after an 120 min it goes down to straight up RETARDED !!!So every 23rd summer he comes out .. where does his truck stay? at the local garage?So his busted @zz 40's truck goes over 100? He must have nitros in it .. they should get it in The Fast & The Furious 2It also looks like it runs on air .. because after 20+ years nobody has ever seen him pump gas ....... lolAt the end, they show him sitting on a stool .. wow, a body organ eating alien/bat/demon needs a stool to restThis movie is just BADDDD x 200000000!!! I can't even think about part 2 !!!  "}{"Title":"Just Plain Horrible","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't understand how people can comment this as good.  There was nothing scary about it, the ending was dumb, and it had nothing going for it.  It was an all around horrible movie.I think I'd rather seen a film with Hulk Hogan in it. "},{"Title":"What an Awful Movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***Spoilers******My problems with the movie have been re-hashed by several of those who have commented on it already so I will merely outline some point that made this movie absolutley hysterical*  I wonder where a mutan alien with wings learns how to operate a car.  Very interesting, I'd hate to see THAT driver's license photo*  On top of being extremely scary our Creeper is very witty as well.  He has the ability to pick out a fitting vanity license plate (not sure where he bought it....no shirt, no shoes, no service) that describes his behaviour and also to realize that the song Jeepers Creepers ironically does as well.*  Small town police station complete with S.W.A.T. team*  Hey, that's not my scarecrow  (worst line in any movie.....EVER)*  The Creeper must have a great ability in launching those bodies down the tube because they had somehow been thrown down in such a manner that the bottom of the tube was body free when the brother fell in.  The body had either flown or bounced well out of the tube landing area.There were more that I can't remember but I laughed my butt off during the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Worst Episode Ever","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie feels like sitting through an incredibly long episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, except Buffy & the Gang never show up. So it kinda sucks.The special effects aren't special, the jokes aren't funny, and nothing is scary.  I mistook the leads for throwaway victims, and I am deeply offended that they don't both get killed in the first reel.  The male lead in particular should have been mangled in a manner both vicious and brutal.There is a crazy old black lady with clairvoyant powers who knows everything about the monster and explains everything.  No, really.  And it isn't evenplayed for laughs. Or maybe it was.  Maybe this movie was a joke.  If so, it's not funny.  It's just this mind-numbing string of cliches and boring dialog. The ceiling made of corpses was cool, but it deserved a much better movie to be in.  As it was, it just seemed incredibly hokey.This movie is just bad.  Very very bad.  And not even bad in a good way. Just boring and dull and pointless.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Falls apart","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Several reviews here say that Jeepers Creepers starts out well but eventually goes south. I'd say, it starts out very well and eventually goes waaay south.Everything clicks for the first 40 minutes. The set-up incorporates the standard horror movie elements quite impressively. The dialogue hums along nicely. The two leads deliver a believable brother and sister shtick. You're interested to know what happens next. But when you find out, well, that's where it gets ugly.Without revealing any plot points, let's just say that the writer-director made some unfortunate choices that produce more unintentional laughs than chills. Also, some things just don't make sense. (Anyone else wonder why a police station in the middle of nowhere has like 20-some cops?)Basically, Jeepers Creepers falls prey to the laws of entropy. What begins as an surprisingly entertaining film devolves into silly camp. My advice watch it until the first time your roll your eyes, then turn it off. Because after that point, it only gets worse. "},{"Title":"Starts out well enough...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ..then dissolves into silliness.**SPOILERS AHEAD!! -- but it really doesn't matter**The most frightening part of this movie is the truck that the monster drives. Everything else looks like something out of a forgettable X-Files episode. The ending is telegraphed and silly, and the monster is only creepy for about the first 15 minutes -- after that he's simply a guy in a reptile suit. Not scary, not interesting and not worth a second look. "},{"Title":"Great horror film!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is a great horror film.Jeepers Creepers is a very entertaining film,it isnt like other horror movies where there is always a happy ending,this one actually has a sad ending,which you dont find in your average monster movie.It also contains elements that are very realistic,like the scene where Darry finds all those bodies in the church basement,his reaction when he comes out is realistic because he his petrified and beyond,thats something that you dont see in a monster movie.The only bad part of the movie is that it focuses to much on certain events in the movie.Other than that,the acting was terriffic,the plot was clever and unpredictable,and the make-up effects were great. Great acting,and entertaining movie make Jeepers Creepers a definite must see. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrifying with a shocking ending","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is hands-down the scariest movie I've seen in years (with the possible exception of The Blair Witch Project).  It's taut, suspenseful, contains very few of the typical horror movie cliches (and makes fun of itself where it does).The ending will blow you away. "},{"Title":"awesome start...disapointing finish","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie it started out with all the elements of a really good horror movie. Creepy atmosphere about it. The way the original Evil Dead or the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre started. I just knew I was in for a keeper. One of those rare movies that you can watch over and over. Well produced and directed with great scenes like the abandoned church. All boarded up and menacing looking. Then...once the movie got moving and nightfall approached??? The great direction went out the window. The majority of the action is shot in the dark and instead of some sense of explanation everything gets really bizarre and hard to understand and believe. I was really disappointed as this went along right up to and including the pointless and even less understood ending. "},{"Title":"Enough with the simulated snuff films!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***    ***SPOILERS*** This movie reminded me of an episode of X-files. Y'know, the one where the incestuous family genetically degenerated into cavemen over generations?They liked to bash people while listening to Wonderful, Wonderful by Johnny Mathis.I watched it because I assumed that Coppola would produce a superior movie. I was wrong. The movies begins well but does not end well. Just in case you don't know, SLASHERS ARE OUT!!! THEY ARE USELESS JACKOFF SIMULATED SNUFF FILMS.This film degenerated into a slasher flick.I have read other reviews which state that it could have been as good as Wishmaster (a very good movie) but they failed to mention that the reason Wishmaster was so good had nothing to do with the horror content. It was good because of the redeeming storyline.ATTENTION SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT!In Wishmaster the protagonist defeats the Djinn and saves her sister.This is where Jeepers Creepers failed. In a fit of laziness the writers decided that in order for a sequel to be in the making, they had to kill one of the siblings.This is pure nonsense, a supernatural creature, unlike the serial killer we thought it was, can come back under the right conditions depending on the background of its legend.Therefore you can see how lazy the writers were because they made it easy on themselves by using a supernatural creature (who has different limitations that a human antagonist) and yet wrote it as if it were human.Question why didn't the sister tell the police where the creature had taken her brother so they could have rescued him?Even so, the story would have been more exciting if the creature had taken just one eye, the boy was rescued and the sequel was about retrieving the eye.  The peeper returns! or something like that.Then the boy could get his eye back and start turning into the creature himself. And from there you could work out the rest of the franchise until everyone is back to normal.Guys, use your imagination! You've got money, financing, backing, distribution, and this is what you do with it?I really liked the brother/sister team. The brother  was especially endearing, he had a lot of heart but his curiosity got the best of him and I was very sad to see him die.The absence of the parents was a chilling touch because when he did die you felt the loss of a son or a brother. The missing notations on the wall of the police station was good too because it allowed you to feel the loss of so many other missing people, whose parents/relatives could not imagine what became of them.This too bothered me, why didn't the sister reveal the creatures lair and solve all these mysteries and murders at once?Somebody could have been seriously heroic.As for the psychic, she was useless and with no legend background of the creature we did not have info that would have allowed the characters to defeat or banish him from this world.What the heck was he doing here anyway? What is he, a left over extra from Dungeons and Dragons, or maybe a renegade Gargoyle?Movies are supposed to inform, uplift and educate, the fact that they are entertaining is just icing on the cake. As an industry, some new benchmarks need to be set as to where we are going to go because this...this just isn't working.We have seen better, we KNOW better and as viewers who spend money we EXPECT better!Give us better! "},{"Title":" One of the scariest movies ","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to watch Jeepers Creepers two days ago,  I have to admit that I went to watch the movie just because its Horror one which I mostly like , .. I hadn't seen its trailer before..It's just started showing in the cinemas last week  , . . .Generally, I liked the movie ...  I had to like it cuz it really did scare me & thats all horror movies must be all about ... The story is a little weird with a terrific unexpected end , ..I am waiting for the sequel if there is an intention to make it..cuz the movie ended with the Monster rules ..                          bye4now "}{"Title":"5/10. ** stars...Could of been so much better","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was very entertained for the first 45 minutes of the movie. I was on the edge of my seat, and i said to myself, finally a very good horror flick was made. Then as soon as the creature was revealed, it began to get corny. Don't get me wrong the monster was pretty cool, but the suspense was taken out of it, and no background on the monster was given throughout the whole thing, I mean c'mon, this movie had some potential here!. Too bad , it could of been the best horror movie since the original Pumpkinhead. The acting was pretty good by the two leads, especially the sister, what a beatiful girl she is, she definatly has star quality written all over her. The ending? Corny as hell. Too bad. the first half was pretty good, but overall an ok movie. Could of been a classic.  "},{"Title":"An enigmatic villian breeds a new horror...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ambiguity may sometimes be a Director's pitfall in terms of satiating the audience's hunger for awareness. Yet in the captivating and intriguing 'Jeepers Creepers', the sheer ambiguousness and enigmatic status of the film's villain is the main ingredient that catapults this film into cult status. Although relatively unnoticeable at the box office at the time of its' release, on DVD this film will capture and retain the attention of any viewer for a sustained period of time. This is mainly attributed to the fact that no one can exactly follow the film's unlikely progression. Yet, here is the contradiction, the film does progress, yet only without letting the viewer in on what exactly is transpiring and why. Director Victor Salva (Nature of the Beast, Powder) has crafted a genuine and creepy monster flick in the post-horror craze period. I must admit, at first glance of the preview at the time of its' release I was not at all interested in what I assumed to be another 'slasher' flick from the school of bad cinema. Yet, one must only view the first 20 minutes of the film to notice this is not your conventional and conformist horror flick. It is fresh, and it is not mundane. Salva writes and directs this seemingly 'teenybopper' horror film, which is in reality a well-made piece of thrilling cinema. Borrowing on the Hitchcock-ian approach of 'less is more' (or the Spielberg `Jaws' days), Salva sculpts a taut, tight, thrilling horror film that definitely lends something new to the genre. Without giving too much away, how long can a viewer wait in order to determine what exactly or who exactly is the villain? What about the motive? In a conventional film, all these rules and answers are conventionally revealed at the beginning of a film in order for the killer to strike again in a repetitive and tepid manner. Yet in this film, the answers are unravelled in an interesting manner that for some might be a sell-out, or to others the answers might be compelling. Nevertheless, all is shot in a haunting and escapist manner.The 'Jeepers Creepers' villain 'The Creeper' (Jonathon Breck) is a fierce, unidentifiable and solemnly disturbing figment of Illustrator/Designer Brad Parker. What he is exactly remains to be determined. But this character personifies evil and is embedded deep within the film's production design and set concept. The discerning viewer will notice that this creature is framed against some stylized layouts and evokes evil upon the rare close-ups and sightings. Case in point, the 'Scarecrow Shot'. From the film's slow, unravelling introduction and vengeful pacing towards the shocking resolution, this film is seeping with invigorating scenes that make this film an interesting view. Despite the film's attempt at originality and not glorifying the acts of The Creeper, the film does delve into a tad of hyper-violence and gore in hopes of making us truly understand the viciousness of this enigmatic character. Furthermore, the 2 main characters at first seem intelligent, yet curiosity gets the better of them and as a result, they set out to accomplish illogical tasks in the face of danger. This is not to say that the film attempts at being a film it is not, it simply means that it gives into the formulaic pattern followed for quite some time. Director Salva clearly has watched many horror films and perhaps has unconsciously inserted the clichés and predictability into his script. Yet, not everything is perfect, after a third of the film of being in suspense and not knowing all the information, the missing pieces all come together in a rugged and flushed fashion that remove the mystery that had encompassed the film up to that point. Needless to say, this film is still a worthwhile watch and while it attempts to mask its' clichéd-riddled script, it is a step above all the awful horror films we have had the 'horror' of watching.Giancarlo's Rating **1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Stuck with me","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie, so I watched it with some skepticism. However, the way it ended stuck with me.  The night I saw it, I got passed by a panel van that reminded me of the truck the monster drove.  I gasped, caught off-guard by the resemblance, and I am not easily bothered by movies. Yeah, the critics kind of blasted it, but if Clive Barker and I liked it, it's worth the rental fee! "},{"Title":"Not well thought out","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ****************Possible Spoilers**********I've been watching horror movie for most of my life, and I've seen some of the worst (The Haunting) and some of the best (George Romero's Night of the Living Dead) and I will say that this movie is the worst movie I saw in 2001 (Tomb Raider and Planet of the Apes not far behind).The movie starts out fine enough, 2 kids coming home from college, driving through the countryside. Not much is ever really developed about them, aside from the fact that they seem to like to whine a lot (never a good sign) and the young lady absolutely cannot use a manual car.From here it's all basically over. The movie commits several fatal errors that absolutely destroy the mood that it is trying to create. First of all the characters are completely without well ... character. They seem to just be shells of the average teenager with no real inclinations, wants or, humanity leading to a lack of interest in what happens to them. Further compounding this fact is that the characters can both be extremely annoying. At one point the young lady and the young man are simply calling each others names and making excruciatingly long pauses between sentences. At another point the young lady does nothing but grind their cars gears for upwards of five minutes in, hands-down, the most annoying scene in the movie. This seems to be a mistake throughout the movie. All the characters are exterminating before they can be developed. At one point there are actually 2 sympathetic police officers who try to help the kids...thwak...well there go those characters, and so on.Second the movie has not explanation of it. The creature (revealed half way through the movie, ruining the suspense, and showing the obvious shortcomings of the special effects in this movie) is never explained, why it does what it does, what it is, where it came from. Granted I'm not expected a thesis on the subject, but i certainly want an explanation. The whole movie felt similar to this, just sort of chugging along, assuming the viewer is going to understand the sometimes outright lack of sense in the plot (the inclusion of the psychic, who served no purpose). These people seemed to have forgottent here was an audience involved in the process when ironing out the continuity of this movie.Lastly, the ending (which i will not reveal) is absolutely criminal. It is abrupt, ill-timed, and completely unsatisfactory. I'm not opposed to the kind of ending portrayed here, just the sudden and empty inclusion of it.I will give the movie one piece of credit. The scene in the police station in which the police are communicating via radio and trying to combat the Creeper is suspenseful and delicious in so many ways, it's a shame that the rest of the movie wasn't as good. Still te fact that the police appear at the end of the scene in riot gear and with M-16's which are never used is downright unforgivable...In conclusion, there's a lot more I could say in oppostion to this movie, bt I'll just leave you with this... If you liked Dracula 2000 see this movie, otherwise steer clear unless you want to see a Tales from the Crypt episode stretched out into 2 hours in a worse fashion than the official Tales from the Crypt series. "},{"Title":"Cool creature, really dumb but nicely lit film...","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The creature design itself is very cool - the first appearance of the batwing was a great scene & the film was very, very well lit (esp. for a lower budget film)BUT, overall, the story was senseless, silly garbage. Watch it at 2AM & pretend it's Chiller Theater... "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  well,not that hard,it had it's moment and it was somewhat suspencefull but overall it sucked,it was pretty stale and it had a really stupid ending,but then again,don't they all,but this one just abused the privilege,it was so lame and farfetched,it pretty much dug a hole for itself "},{"Title":"My comments on this movie","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I like this movie a lot because it was a first class thriller. The special effects on the Creeper were excellent. Also, the actors pulled their roles off tremendously. Another thing I liked about it was that it kept you on the edge of your seat!  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning.  Contains SpoilersMy friends and I rented Jeepers Creepers last weekend.  We were hoping for a nice, scary horror movie.  It was not what we expected.It was not scary at all.  In fact, we found it very funny.  The cheap effects, the corny plot, the terrible acting.The dead bodys in the House of pain were so fake, one of my friends thought they were meant to be dolls.  The deaths, such as the police officer in the car, were never really seen.  You saw the creeper pull his head up, but when the ax slashed, the camera was pointed at the sky.The psychic lady, Gazelle, basically just showed up for no reason.  She didn't really help the kids at all.  And the creeper was so fake.  You never saw his face until the last few minutes, and when you did you could tell how fakely it looked.The ending was probably the worst part of all.  It's just screaming for a sequel.  You know he's going to come back, and it's just sad how fake Darry looks.  You can tell he's a piece of cardboard.Even though this movie is not very good, my friends enjoyed making fun of it.  I recommend you see this movie because it's so funny how fake it is. But even dispite that, I only give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"What started out as a decent movie became a disaster (possible spoiler)","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You can't expect much from a horror film using an old jazz song for its main title and eventually part of the plot line, but I will admit that the first hour or so of this movie had me entertained and scared (in a fun way).The Creeper's mystery and the unknown of what it actually was and what its objective for eating people was actually quite shall I say creepy.Where the movie went wrong was the instance it took the Creeper's mystery and exposed it.  The movie went from being an intense ride to a cheap sci-fi alien flick.  Exposing the creatures true identity really ruined all that the movie had going for it, and what's worse they turned it into a slasher flick for the last half hour.The ending is not what you would expect, but you are not disturbed by it.While I was disappointed in the movie as a whole, it did entertain me for a while.As such I give this film a 5/10! "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers, the best yet","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The reason why I feel that JEEPERS CREEPERS is the best horror movie yet (since Wishmaster) is because it is comprised of appalling ideas and impulsive scenes. I hope not to spoil any scenes from this brilliant masterpiece so I choose to only put my thoughts in a short paragraph that would not encompass a single spoiler(as there are too many good scenes to share). The Creeper and the acting (Trish and Darry) is the spotlight of this movie, and also, the brilliant score mixed in the background. Most of the scenes where the suspense slowly builds up are wonderful, hair-raising, and heartstopping. Despite all the good scenes, the one and most PERFECT scene was the finale, or the ending. The ending basically tells us why the movie is called JEEPERS CREEPERS.12/10    +2 for the superb ending and how well it summed up the movie (don't really know why in the commentary track, it is said that Hush  hush, the boogeyman's here worked better) "}{"Title":"Starts off well, but ultimately disappoints","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well got this out on DVD thanks to a so called friends recommendation. If I could get my money back from blockbuster I would. Don't get me wrong, the two main characters make you feel their fear. It really knows how to scare you as well, with a nice build up to the scare BUT and I think it's a big but the end is just so disappointing. You occasionally see a film and you think please don't end here. Jeepers Creepers has you thinking several times that it's going to end and you will it on to some magnificent ending but the actual end makes you wish it had ended on those earlier occasions. I for one will not be rushing to see the sequel "},{"Title":"More like a pilot episode","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***This review contains vague SPOILERS--it's not giving awaydetails but does suggest broad plot outcomes. ***I don't think this movie was BAD.  It's certainly not fresh or original,or whatever the quotes on the box at the video store said it was,but it was essentially entertaining.  The problem with Jeepers Creepers is that it is so obviously thefirst installment of what American Zoetrope so obviously hopeswill be a new blockbuster horror franchise (can you say, JeepersCreepers 6 You Can't Kill This Dude, So Of Course He's Back). The movie sets up a good bit of the background--who the villain isand what he does, the fact that he's got at least one creepy secrethideout, etc.--and it provides us with a surviving star andsupporting star (I won't say more for fear of giving too much away)and the basis of a revenge motif for future sequels.  It felt like apilot episode for a new TV series.  The problem is, the first movieof other horror series felt more like self-contained films.  I'm not abig horror enthusiast, but I know that Nightmare on Elm Street,say, or even Scream could have (maybe should have) ended withthe first installments and felt satisfying.  Not so Jeepers Creepers. Its completeness depends on sequels.  That's fine for a movie likeFellowship of the Ring or Phantom Menace because everyoneunderstands that there are two more movies to come in thosefranchises.  But I expected a whole movie from Jeepers Creepers,and I didn't get it. "},{"Title":"Wow, this movie sucked","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can always appreciate horror films on their own terms, but not when they're as bad as this. This movie is just a hodgepodge of horror staples from other, better movies, which is kind of appropriate considering the monster. But Salva doesn't even bother sewing the bits together into a cohesive whole. He just writes in the incredibly hackneyed character of the psychic black lady to explain everything in the most flatly expository manner possible.Like others have said, the beginning is pretty promising, but when the siblings decide to turn back, you realize you're watching a movie that is not driven by the characters or the premise but rather by the writer/director's need to hurry you to the next scare. He then ladles in cliches for filler and the result is a movie that reminds you how much better other movies are. The ending was quite abrupt and unrewarding, giving me the sense that this was actually just an overpadded Tales From the Crypt episode. Most unforgivably, this movie does not stay consistent with its own internal logic.Don't rent this for a lark, or just to see some gore. That 90 minutes would be better spent with any number of better recent horror movies. Try Final Destination, The Others, Sleepy Hollow or the recent remake of Haunting of Hill House instead. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if not brilliant, horror flick","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers seems to have got an undeserved bashing here in the reviews. What we have here is an enjoyable horror-flick, the likes of which we don't get enough of in the cinemas today. It ain't Citizen Kane and never ever tries to be.With films like this, the acting is generally of little importance since the cast is as likely to be dismembered as not. Nevertheless both Justin Long and Gina Philips are fine as the brother and sister being hunted down by the mysterious creeper.The reason the movie gets savaged is because it comes across as a movie of two halves - the first (superior) half being before the creeper is unveiled. There's a lot of truth in that - the first half is quite tense and scary, as we're constantly on edge wondering what's going on, while the second-half becomes the more typical chased-by-bad-monster-in-various-buildings scenario (not helped by the fact the monster isn't all that scary). While the first half is definitely superior, the second half is just a bit bog-standard and still manages to deliver the required thrills and jumps. I also enjoyed the ending. Sure we could have had more about the background of the creeper - but so what? That's for the sequels this is a horror movie. It's the nature of the beast to have plot holes, and not explain things.If you want a half-decent horror flick, rent out Jeepers Creepers. Don't expect wonderful dialogue, or deeply plotted story-lines. Expect a bit of brainless enjoyment for a while and you won't be disappointed. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Very Effective Chiller","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some people simply need to be dredged out of the gene pool and the teen-agers in most Hollywood horror movies who recklessly put themselves in minatory situations, top the list.  Trish and Darry Jenner are not only a pair of the stupidest kids one could ever dread to meet, but two of the most irksome.  You simply WANT something very, very bad to happen to these idiots and one of the greatest pleasures provided by this movie is that it does, frequently.JEEPERS CREEPERS is without question the best chiller of 2001.  It begins slowly and then just gets steadily better and better.  The acting is superior, and dependable Eileen Brennan offers a wonderful performance as a remarkably strange old lady who keeps more than a couple of cats.This is a fine movie, nice and nasty, and I give it five stars and a comet!  "},{"Title":"s**te","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film started out great. I thought it might be something to challenge other horror greats, like Suspiria, or Ring, but as soon as you actually saw the monster it became ridiculous. In many ways, the style and the idea were similar to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2. Not in any specifics, but the general feel and idea were the same. A movie best forgotten, i fear..... "},{"Title":"Could've Been","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I really had high hopes for this movie. And for the first 30 minutes, I was into this movie. However, after the first 30 minutes the film just seemed like it wanted to hurry up and finish. The film does have a few scary moments, and it had the potential of being a true great horror film. But, it just really got stupid towards the end (I did not like the ending). I hear that there will be a sequel. If so, I hope that the director can explain some things that JC1 did not. This movie could have been really good! "},{"Title":"I didnt like this movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie started out very good, i thought it was going to be very interesting, but you never learn who exactly the monster in the movie is or really why hes doing anything.Alot of what the two kids do in the movie is very unreal, standing there watching while someone gets killed is not very likely.I believe they could have done something great with this movie, they could have ended it so well, because they got off to a great start.All in all i wouldnt recommend wasting my time on this movie, the ending is sucky "},{"Title":"awesome film!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is definitely one of the best horror films of this period. There is everthing here that a horror fan could possibly ask for. JEEPERS CREEPERS has blood and gore (yep, there are some kool gore scenes), a cool villain (with good make up effects), and suspenseful moments (from the beginning to the end). I won't spoil the ending because it is, in my honest opinion, SHOCKINGLY SCARY and truly original. I've never seen any bizarre ending like that.    "},{"Title":"Give me a break!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, here we go with another hack job on a directors early work. Powder at least had some feeling. We spend the first half hour of Jeepers listening to two siblings having the most over directed rivalry ever captured on film since What Ever Happened To Baby Jane. This film is well, kind of like a Swanson TV dinner. It might fill you up but did it really count as food? I can't say there were any moments in this film where I had a moment. A couple of cheap Boo's was all it had. When a movie bombs as hard as this one did, don't cry about direction and whamo endings, just face facts, it was not a good spent hour and a half. Clears the concience, no? "}{"Title":"Yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck, yuck!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It starts so well. A bit Deliverance, a bit Texas Chain Saw Massacre (note to future film makers rednecks are ALWAYS scary). But then the evil bat creature arrives, looking like a Buffy reject, and it becomes a dull, run-away-from-the-monster movie, with an ending that manages both to suck and blow at the same time. Please, please make it stop. "},{"Title":"Where's the inspiration?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is only for those people who expect a 'simple popcorn flick' with some creepy moments and some laughs. Even then the problem is that those two ingredients only occur in the first half of the movie. There are some funny conversations with wise-ass remarks between the two protagonists, which can look familiar for those who have a brother or sister. Also, there was even a gloomy sense of doom to be felt at times. The second half is just too stupid for words. The actions of the protagonists are often too unlogical, the (forgettable) events don't contribute to the story and atmosphere, a unnecessary character is being introduced... Now, one hour after watching this flick, I'm thinking that the writer a) faced a killing deadline, c) let somebody else write the 1st or last half of the movie, or b) loses his inspiration very quickly during the writing process. *BUT*, maybe that this is a failed attempt to create something like a cliffhanger for the sequel. ***SPOILER ALERT!*** That would somewhat redeem the bad ending, which I think a simple popcorn flick shouldn't have. I like bad endings, but not in this movie. It seems like nowadays every untalented director can make a crappy-but-hyped teen movie and get too much $$$ for it. Anywayz, I didn't have to pay for my ticket, so what the heck. Worth seeing when you've had enough of collecting exotic deodorant advertisement poster elastics etc bla bla.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun and exciting! For about 15 minutes...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think this movie had a lot of potential, but in the end it just didn't pay off. There were so many loose ends left flapping in the wind it's hard to tell exactly what happened. I think the monster in this movie was poorly chosen as well. A definite surprise, but a definite let down. The actors did a great job though. Not only because they didn't start laughing! I rented this on DVD and the best part of the movie was seeing the actors read for the part before they were cast. Avoid it if you can! "},{"Title":"Okay...let me get THIS straight!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay...let me get this striaght...THEY ARE MAKING A SEQUEL?!?!?!? Okay...all I want to know is WHAT ON EARTH IS THE CREEPER!!!  There was so many different things, different tangents they could have taken to make the film so much better.  Having written many scripts myself I understand the difficult tasks...but come on Victor...how hard is it to add something that enables the viewer to understand what the creeper is.  I feel like I wasted time that could have been used for something useful...like sleeping. "},{"Title":"It had the potential,but blew it.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie started of great with a very creepy atmosphere.I thought to my self that this was going to be a great movie,but after about 40 minutes the story and everything just went to hell.It almost seemed like the director had very little time to finish the movie,so he just put something together. This movie had a lot of questions we never got an answer to,and that really bother me.There were a lot of things in the movie which made no sense.I really hope that the sequel which will be out in 2002 will give us a lot of answers.Even though the movie had a lot of faults,it also had a lot of unique and creepy moments. So I dont think it was a waste of time,event though half of the visitors in the cinema went before the movie was finished. "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With the lack of horror movies today I really wanted to love this movie and I was hoping so bad the critics would be wrong but man they were right this movie starts out so good! A big scary looking truck honking and trying to knock these kids off the road and once they get to the restaurant, you guessed it in the middle of nowhere lol, it just goes downhill. At first you think this thing is just a big spooky old man, then some sort of nasty creature then it's a devil, and the old black lady did ruin the film what exactly was her point of even being in the script? This movie sucks so bad and it had so much promise to it, what happened did the guy writing it die and some child take over? I can take cheesy movies but not when they completely change and when it's suppose to be a real movie I mean this wasn't a B movie, well I'm sure some people liked it but I was so disappointed with it, at least the 2 young people did a fair job in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Move over Freddy, the CREEPER is in town!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers.  Ah, the name itself sends a tingle of curiousity through my bones.  I watched this on the recommendation of my friend. The director is Victor Salva of POWDER fame.  This is  his first thriller and he does deliver the goods.  The Creeper is more terrifying than even Freddy Krueger or Jason Vorhees. The best scene is where the creeper chews the tounge out of a decapitated head!   I read that the creeper (the man who plays him) has a cameo as a cop.  I can't see which cop though. I watched the directors commentary.  It was very good.  He comments on how the male lead was able to act scared better than anybody else that auditioned.  He also mentioned that there were many budget constraints.  It's obvious how Hitchcock influenced Salva in this picture.  The suspense was great.  Again, watch the directors commentary and much more will be clear to you in this movie.  There is Jeepers Creepers PART two coming out this year!  I just hope that old black lady isn't in it.  She was the ONLY bad part of the movie. "},{"Title":"A new addition to a clichéd genre.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw the review on the main page for this movie claiming that Jeepers Creepers had a great script, and that the movie was full of surprises.  I couldn't disagree more.As I was watching the film I knew that I had to review it here because it was so bad.  In fact I had so many complaints that I grabbed a notebook and pencil.  Regrettably, I think I still missed numerous flaws in the movie, but this will have to do.  In order to review this as well as possible, I'm going to have to give away some SPOILERS, but I won't tell you everything (as though you couldn't guess it anyway.)The lead-in to the movie is a brother and sister on a road trip home.  I'm thankful for their relationship as it is, because at least we avoided the evil monster killing the couple after they have sex bit.  Unfortunately, we weren't able to escape the faceless driver in a speedy vehicle that has been done numerous times over.  And, of course, the truck appears to be a dilapidated rust-bucket, but it can still go faster than anything else on the road.  After being rammed by it a few times, Trish (Gina Phillips) and Darry (Justin Long) see the truck shortly afterwards on the side of the road, the yet faceless drive shoving a body-shaped object down a pipe.  Rather than report the suspicious behavior, they have to go inspect the scene after being totally run off the road by The Creeper.This is where the clichés start to overwhelm the viewer.  Firstly, there is the overly-curious brother who just has to get a closer look at everything, and that includes him having his sister hold his legs while he crawls down the pipe a bit.  Naturally he falls in (of course!) but not before his sister tells him that he's acting like a person in a Scary Movie, doing something stupid.  Speaking for myself, I'm tired of actors in scary movies commenting to each other how their behavior is just like people in scary movies.  Scream and Scary Movie parodied it enough, let it be!Darry sees some things down in the cellar of the Church he's under, and they're naturally so disturbing that he's shocked into silence for the next few scenes.  Although his terror is over the top, let me just say thank God that I didn't have to listen to anymore sappy dialogue during that time.  Darry and his dear sis Trish finally come to a Diner where the local yokels stare at them as the new curiosity of the moment.  Trish pleads with the waitress to call the police, but instead of saying we think there has been a murder which would get her to the phone right away she has to be mysterious and unrevealing saying please more than once and merely alluding to some distress.Enter the requisite sage.  While waiting for the waitress to call the cops, the payphone next to Darry and Trish starts ringing.  They have to stare blankly at it for 5 or 6 rings and be asked are you going to get that by a patron before picking it up, because otherwise we the audience might not feel their sense of discontent and apprehension.  Just answer the damn phone!!  On the other end is the sage.  In keeping with tradition we don't see her face, but it is a woman and she's a minority as suggested by the American Indian Dream Catcher.  She's also probably a bit overweight - later confirmed when we actually see her - but in order to maintain whatever suspense he can get, director Victor Salva leaves her somewhat anonymous for this scene.  Although she is the Woman With The Answers, her character again holds to cinematic tradition by speaking in a manner that reveals NOTHING to the audience or the characters simply put she talks as though everyone knows what's going on.The action by this point isn't really action.  It's moments of suspenseful pauses and pointless dialogue and it doesn't get much better later in the movie.  There is also the ceaseless yelling which seems to be unavoidable in today's movies - if someone isn't screaming or whispering they're probably not saying anything important, right?  The next cliché I'll mention is the Car That Won't Start.  It pops up at least twice in this movie, augmented by a poor transmission that always seems to jam up when it's needed the most.  How un-surprising.I've got a few more points to cover, but I'll spare you them all and cut to The Creeper.  I don't think you'll be surprised to learn that it's not human.  Given that premise, you're forced as a viewer to accept whatever model of monster the writer gives you, and this one happens to be something that is biologically impossible by any earthly standards.  In order to breathe, the Creeper eats human lungs.  Nothing in nature works that way (at least on a level as complex as human physiology) so now the monster has to either be magical or unworldly.  To me, that strips whatever credibility the movie had left.  Leave the aliens to Star Wars, and the magic to Lord of the Rings.  Please.There's so much more that I want to tear into, but I fear that this review has become long enough.  I'll leave you with my rating 2 out of 10, and I was considering dropping it to 1 of 10. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I did enjoy this film, but I felt like it ended prematurely. The Creeper isn't really explained at all. It would have been nice to at least learn something about him. Where does he come from? How long has he been around? Why does nobody in town seem to know about him? are there any legends associated with him or the old church? It is not as if every horror movie needs to send the lead characters to a 2000 year old church to research ancient manuscripts, but knowing next to nothing about The Creeper was really unsatisfying. After watching the film, I felt like someone had just presented me with the outline of a story they were thinking about writing without providing any details.  "},{"Title":"Scary as hell - only for a while !","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's been quite some time since a movie kept me on edge, with a sense of unease and morbid anticipation for what's to follow. Unfortunately, the what's to follow is RIDICULOUS.See or rent this movie for the first 30 minutes. After that, when you 'sort of' get to know what Jeepers Creepers is, switch off or turn to a Jerry Springer show - you'll probably be better off.The youthful couple start off as believable, even though the kid does suggest to go back to certain place, which, to my mind, was ludicrous thinking on his part and also slightly unreal. Anyway, as with all movies of this genre, once you see the monster / villain, the movie plummets into comedy, without wanting to be.Such promise, such a waste !! "}{"Title":"Just a taste of things to come","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Horror movie guru that I am, I expected this one to be in the line of Scream, or even Arachnophobia'. Boy, was I wrong. Sure, there's a lot of the 'Something unexplainably horrid happened, it happened before and will happen again' theme to this, but it took it to a level of not the police investigator's, the skeptical reporter's, nor the evil scientist's point of view. It went the classic route of `The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' and yanked two siblings out of their mediocre lives and into the lungs of hell. Agreed, I've seen better, but not recently have I seen something that I could say, `Yep, that's how these two would act in real life'(Except when the boy expresses his desire to fulfill his curiosity-STOOPID MOVE!) Looking forward to the sequel.  "},{"Title":"One of the best B movies of all time.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have to admit, I thought this movie would suck. So I rented it first. Well, did I ever make a mistake. Later I bought this movie on DVD. I thought that it was one of the best B movies i've seen. It didn't look like it would cost anything to make but I throughly enjoyed this movie. If any had any objections against me, I hope you here Jeepers Creepers in your sleep. Fairly descent acting, fairly good directing, awesome movie. A "},{"Title":"A bit disappointed","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I got Jeepers Creepers DVD after reading its favourable reviews on dvd.ign.com and www.dvdreview.com, and thought it would bring me pleasant surprises... well, the movie was mediocre... it had a few fine moments, but simply not enough to hold my attention.  And the story could have been a lot better.The performance of the two leads (Justin Long & Gina Phillips, I think) was adequate, but the characters themselves are too annoying for the views to care for them.  Funny how Trish in the movie commented what Darry did was stupid things people in scary movie do, and throughout the entire movie you have to watch the siblings acting stupid.  Really, to be stunned by horror on first encounter was one thing, but standing still for every single encounter was painful to watch.Minor spoiler---This movie certainly did not meet my expectations.  Yet I did find the part where the creepers walk in front of the car was awfully funny as he looked so much like a Darth Maul clone... and probably that's about the only part in the movie which I found funny.Kinmui "},{"Title":"Not bad as such films go","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In most modern horror films, the filmmakers seem to have lost the distinction between scaring someone and shocking someone. Blood and guts are for shock value, fright comes from suspense. While not Hitchcock, this film seemed to lean more toward the suspense side than just shock. It's certainly worth watching if you like a bit of a fright. It could have been done better, though, and I really didn't like the ending (I won't spoil it for you). "},{"Title":"This movie definitely creeps you out.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie, surprising, actually had me and my boyfriend on the edge of our seats the whole time. The makers of this film did a terrific job with the suspense and the storyline. I'm not familiar with these 2 young actors who starred but I was big time impressed with their performances. The beginning of this movie was really good and I was thinking it would probably get stupid later on but it didn't. It kept my interest the whole time. VERY good for a horror. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting Beginning, Horrible Ending","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For the first 30 minutes or so, I was really into the story and thought it was pretty good, but then after that it just becomes a joke.  There are so many things that just don't sit right with me in this film.MAJOR SPOILERS AHEADProblems I had with this filmWhat the F*** is this thing that's chasing them?  I guess it's cool to leave it up to the audience, but please throw me a friggin' bone here.What on earth was the reason for having the psychic lady?  She was utterly useless to the story!!!  There was nothing helpful that came out of that woman's mouth?Why was the Creeper walking on the wall when the psychic lady was cowering and praying?  I'm sorry, but LAME!!!  Let's pretend I'm Victor Salva (director)...Oh, let's have him do something really neat like crawl on the wall...oooo isn't that cool?Why do horror directors insist on having the main characters be morons?  GET IN THE CAR AND DRIVE!!!!!!!!!!Why do horror directors insist on having (cell) phones not work, car's not start, etc...And Finally...WHAT THE HELL WAS UP WITH THAT ENDING!!!  Sure, it was ballsy and some-what unexpected, but the unexpected isn't always a GOOD thing!!!!!I'm not going to say don't waste your time with the film, but make your own assessment of the film.Thanks for readin'. "},{"Title":"The scariest thing Since  The Blob","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When i went to go see JEEPERS CREEPERS i was shocked to know i had bought the last ticket, i was kind of scared 2 go in considering what movie reviews gave it a thumbs down! To my acknowledgement JEEPERS CREEPERS turned out to be the best movie I had seen in a very long time, even since  THE BLOB  JEEPERS CREEPERS opened a new gate way, and gave horror a new name, and a new way to scream! If the first part was good, i can't wait to see the Sequel, hopefully this movie won't be ruined by the sequel like other movies, on a scale of 1-10 i give JEEPERS CREEPERS A 20! "},{"Title":"Starts out promising, then takes a most unforgivable turn south","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers starts off fairly promising.  The two main characters are a tad cliched, their exposition a bit transparent, but they remain charming nonetheless.  The first little bit of the film takes place on a country highway during broad daylight and stirs up suspense and fear in healthy doses, reminiscent of Hitchcock's 'North by Northwest'.  The antagonist's screen presence generates some genuine tension, and there seems potential for a well decent horror/mystery.  Alas, The film takes a drastic and most unforgivable turn for the worst by continuing to add layer beyond layer of ever-so-cheesy and NOT scary depth to the main villain instead of allowing him to lure in the shadows.  Without ruining the ending, its safe to say you will be left with an overwhelming sense of betrayal as the plot leaves countless loose ends and an ending that is as predictable as it is stupid. And what the hell is with that song? ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Great set-up with a very unsatisfying payoff","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers begins with the promising signposts of a chilling teen slasher flick- two college siblings, a vacant rural, road, and a maniac who tries to run them off of it.  And even when the logic that the drives the two protagonists slowly unravels, there's room to suspend one's disbelief and join them on their journey into the unknown.Then, very abruptly, a supernatural element is introduced as if to make the film more intriguing.  Instead it only refutes all the elements introduced in the first suspenseful half-hour.  The villain appears to transform suddenly from the possibly-deranged-backroads-serial killer to the other-wordly-winged-cannibalist.  Horror enthusiasts will particularly cringe when the spooky Hattie McDanielesque psychic appears from nowhere and wants to risk her life to save these two college brats from the evil flying demon.  What could be a mindless but disturbingly entertaining shock flick quickly becomes an exercise in connect the horror movie cliches.By the end, the only thing scary about Jeepers Creepers is the fact that people actually spent time and money to make this movie. "},{"Title":"Very Very Disappointing","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  May contain SPOILERS!!!I have never watched a film go from being so good to being so bad so quickly.  The opening portions of Jeepers Creepers are very creepy indeed.  The introduction of the Creeper is excellent and the journey into his lair is suspenseful.  Unfortunately the movie goes downhill from there.  There are a lot of plot holes in the movie and many questions which go unanswered, this is usually the fault of poor writing and not intelligence on the writers part.  I believe that the writer of the film didn't really know what his creation was.Jeepers Creepers starts off attempting to be different from most horror movies.  Without really seeing the killer, tension and suspense and a fear of the killer are created with the wonderful camera work and suspenseful pacing.  Sadly any good this movie had going for it disappears once it becomes obvious that the killer in the film is supernatural and therefore can be anywhere he wants at anytime.  The terror of the killer is transfered from being generated from his unseen actions to his popping into the frame every chance he gets.  Apparently there is a sequel to this movie coming out in 2002.  Maybe it will answer some of the questions I have about this first film (a true understanding of the killers actions is never clearly presented) but most likely it will be more of the same boring retread of horror movie cliches that fans have come to expect.Jeepers Creepers starts off really strong, it has a good cast and good acting, what it doesn't have is a satisfying story.  While I applaud the chance the film makers make with the ending it just raises another questions that never gets answered.  Jeepers Creepers was on it way to a strong 8 out of 10 but quickly lost it's way and fell all the way down to a 4.   "}{"Title":"A lack-luster movie that leaves horror fans wanting...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is to a horror fan as a rice cake is to a sugar junkie bland.Some people enjoyed the movie, so see it before you read further.The film begins with about ten minutes of dialog between the two main characters that serves no purpose in the plot.  There are many areas in the plot that could have been better written.  For example, the title, Jeepers Creepers, refers to a song by that name.  As the main characters find out long into the film, it serves as a warning that the monster is near and about to strike.  But the song is only heard one time for that purpose While the two are leading the police to where they spotted bodies.  This happens because Trysh decides to tune in another station on the radio. What if she hadn't turned the dial?Much of the movie time is spent with the characters talking to police and other people.  It is halfway through the film until the monster is even seen (aside from a shadowy figure passed off as a man)  Many of the creatures actions are not explained well.The end of the film also lacks, but I'll let you see it.Maybe it was left wide open for the sequel, which I hope can pick up the slack. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers Scary for all the wrong reasons.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was literally the worst movie that has ever been created. The acting was horrible.  The characters were inconsistent.  The two main characters Trish and Darry would constantly switch roles as to who would be the level headed one and who would want to stick around and try and help. This along with a plot line that didnt progress made the movie bad.  The only thing worse than the acting and the plot was the ending; mainly because it didnt have one.  Just as the movie seemed to be going somewhere it ended. It appears as though the makers of the movie got bored about half way through the filming and simply stopped.  The only thing scary about this film is the fact that someone actually paid to produce it. "},{"Title":"average schlock-fest with good acting","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie is basically complete crap redeemed by strong performances from the lead actors. there are no real scares to be had here, and the monster is stupid looking, but i found myself actually interested to see what fate had in store for the two stars of the film. kudos for making me care about that, but otherwise stop churning out garbage horror movies.my grade **1/2 (out of ****)  "},{"Title":"You've got something it likes.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is the best horror movie to be released in theaters in quite some time. I give all the credit to writer/director Victor Salva. Eerie, intense, evil. It's simple as that (and no love interest, finally). There is absolutely no reason for all of the negative reviews. If this movie were made in the eighties, no one would be whining and moaning. It would be showered with praise. And you have to give it one thing, the monster is pretty damn original. The Creeper is sinister and I can easily see him sneaking into a position as a horror icon in the near future. The film follows siblings Justin Long and Gina Phillips who accidentally run afoul of the Creeper. That's all of the plot I'm going to give away. Trust me, the less you know about this film, the better it is. Go out and see it. "},{"Title":"Where's the rest of the script?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After watching the DVD at a friend's house and listening to the Director Commentary, I learned that the Director had to cut some of the story due to budget constraints.  It's a shame because it seems like he cut out about 90% of the story.  Even at the end of the film, the audience knows almost nothing.  Especially about The Creeper.  No Legend or Mythology was even attempted for this character.  So many questions like Why the old church? How does a Demon (or whatever he is) acquire an old truck with Vanity Plates?  How long has he been doing what he does? How is it that the townspeople are completely oblivious to his presence while he's snatching up people left and right?  All we know is that he comes out every 23 years for 23 days and eats people parts.  And this from a crazy psychic lady that nobody wants to listen to, including the audience.The ending is pointless, merciless, and leaves much to be desired.  The kids did nothing to deserve this.  The audience did nothing to deserve this, come to think of it.  Basically, the movie ends at what is usually a beginning or a mid-point for every other horror movie.  To some that may scream Sequel!! but to others it says Just forget about it. You won't get what you want here.For this mish-mash hodge-podge of numerous horror themes, I'm glad I didn't put forth any money towards this (my friend paid for the DVD rental).  "},{"Title":"horrible ending","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film starts great like Duel meets Halloween. It is tense and scary.  It did not really need a lot of extra people which took away from the film. Even the confrontation was excellent.  Unfortunately the film slipped in the last part to needless gore.  And the end was unforgivable and pointless.  Gina could be an Angelina Jolie type star. "},{"Title":"Not Scary. Little Entertainment","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A lot of People who saw this Movie before me Said that it was a Very Well Written, Scary Movie with an Excellent Musical Score. What were they Thinking? This has to be one of the Worst Movies Claiming to be Scary I Have ever seen! The Beginning keeps up our Hopes. But the last 50 Minutes are Horrible. There was MAYBE One Scary scene. One. Watch this Movie just to Know that it was Bad. The Worst part Of this Garbage was the Musical Score, that Was Featured in many other Films. Another bad part was the very cheap Scares. Scares that should be put in a...Well...I better not say it. Anyway, I regret ever wasting me Time on this. The Special Effects are Even more Horrible than the Empty plot. I've seen Movies 20 years old that Still have better effects than this Trash. The Last Scene made me Say They Call this The Ending, this is Just the Beginning for a Sequel. Anyway, I Hated this Film.Hey. I Hope if you are Reading this Comment you Take into Consideration that I hated the Film. I Hated it. Everyone else I Know loved it. It's up to You who's Word you Take. 2 Out of 10. Grade D-People who Liked this Movie, or the Plot of the Movie, Might like Puppet Master, Hideous!, Head of the Family, House on Haunted Hill, Slumber Party Massacre, Sorority House Massacre, The Dead hate The Living, Hannibal, Night of the Living Dead, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Psycho, American Psycho, and The Dead Next Door.    "},{"Title":"As said before, WHAT A CROCK OF #$%&@!!!!!!!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Minor spoilers of the beginning...Yes, the beginning was kinda interesting, then everything turned to sh#$ as usual.A small suggestion of improvement When the thing charged at them with his tank-like truck trying to get them off the road, the boy gets hulk-like mad and says You think you can f$%& with me? You rusty country hick, F$%& WITH ME?!!!, then orders his sister to grab the wheel, pulls a 12 gauge shotgun, sticks out the window and starts blasting at the truck's windshield, and the truck stops suddently, turns around and runs away, with the brothers chasing after it, still blasting, THEN stop at the church and start looking around...How's that for a twist? Took me 5 seconds to make it up, and for free... "},{"Title":"I'd rather eat barbecue at a funeral.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you buy into the hype... If you thought WISHMASTER was the scariest thing ever... Or, if you thought GINGER SNAPS was super-cool... Then, this one's for you.  Anyone else... Need not apply.I smell poop.Yes, everyone's favorite law-abiding citizen, Victor Salva, is back in the director's chair for another sloppy heap of so-called horror.NOTE  As of this writing, Salva's scariest film (a short film called KIDS DO THE DARNDEST THINGS) remains unreleased.  Legal issues surrounding the project have had it tied up for years, and it is doubtful that anything else of his creation, could be nearly as effective. "},{"Title":"What a great beginning...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  to what becomes a very disappointing film.This movie starts out great & could have been a cult classic following in the footsteps of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The first 30 minutes keep you on the edge of your seat waiting to see what will happen next.  The two main characters did a phenomenal job, especially when doing the foolish things that are always done in horror films.I'm about to tell you a little about the Creeper, so skip to the last paragraph if you don't want to red it.About 30 or 40 minutes into the movie, we learn a little too much about the Creeper and discover that not only is he not human, but he's not even remotely human.  As you watch it, the movie turns into something like Leprechaun or a sequel to Wishmaster.Many things just don't make sense about the Creeper as you watch the movie. After the movie ends, you realize so many more things didn't make sense. Ends don't meet.  This movie made me angry because it started off so well and really let me down.   "}{"Title":"One of the best horror films of recent years","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers is a shockingly fresh and original horror film.  The film starts out, intentionally I think, slowly and steadily builds terror and anticipation to a surprising, shocking, and gutsy ending.  This is not your run-of-the-mill slasher film, even though it has some of that feel at first. As it develops, it kind of reminds one of a monster version of Silence of the Lambs with similar suspense, erieness, and realistic fear. By realistic I mean that, even though this film deals with a supernatural monster as opposed to a human cannibal, it's still presented in a way that seems plausible.  If you like smart and downright scary horror movies, this is a must-see! "},{"Title":"hard time feeling sympathetic","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The reactions of the protagonists in this story are so slow and illogical from the start that one has a hard time generating much sympathy for what befalls them in the rest of the film.  There are a lot of plot holes suggesting sloppy writing but the most significant feature of this film is the stupidity of the main characters. "},{"Title":"Builds up well - but a waste of time and money!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a load of rubbish!I saw the trailer - talk about a rip-off of Spielberg's Duel!My emotional journey through this film was as follows -So it's a horror is it? o.k. Where'd that guy get his licence from?!Really?No see, you DON'T do that! Oh god - I jumped! So where's the horror? I'm Waiting! I'm Still waiting! I'm gonna leave now!! Oh, scary bit!! What??!! You're kidding me!!! My patience is wearing thin!!! You have GOT TO BE F*****G KIDDING ME!!!!!!!!!!!! Well, at least it ended the way I wanted it to!!!!!Uh-huh. That about sums up this awful film for me!!! Builds well, but a total crock of...you get the drift.People are calling this a masterpiece? The best horror film in recent years? Yeah right. If this film were a person and it was on fire, I'd sooner throw Vodka on it than water!!! waste of time and MONEY!!!!!The ending is only thing it had going for it, and there's a sequel on the way???????!!!!!!!!!!!!!Yep, another cash-in!!!!Do yourself a favour - AVOID this film.4/10    Just for the initial build up and the end (final frame to be precise!!) "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers Ain't No Keeper","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, so the catchy title isn't so catchy, but the point is, Jeepers Creepers is a bit of a letdown, especially since the first half-hour or so is so good, and so is the acting by the two leads. I hate to say that by the end, I wasn't happy with what I saw, mostly because the movie fell flat on its face after our two protagonists made brought this whole nightmare to civilization.Anyway, first, the plot synopsis, which is unnecessary, because what most people know about this movie going in is about enough. Brother Darry (Justin Long) and sister Trish (Gina Philips) are driving home from college, taking the scenic route. All is not well when a menacing old truck tries running them off the road Duel-style. When they later see the same truck parked at an old church, and a dark figure dumping what looks like a body down a sewer pipe, things get more suspicious. They eventually return to investigate out of concern (it's actually a weak excuse, but the script makes it sound logical), and find something unbelievable.And that, my friends, is as much as I feel like describing, because after that, the movie goes downhill. More cast members show up for bit parts before either disappearing or getting killed for no good reason. Trish and Darry make various stops, trying to explain what's happening and why someone needs to believe them, then the Creeper shows up and chases them away. You won't even realize when the movie reaches it's climax, because you're just expecting this formula to continue playing out. But then the movie ends, with an epilogue that only somewhat helps the weak precedings (sans the great first half-hour) with a shocking final scene that was pretty original.Jeepers Creepers, as I've metioned, does start out well. The dialogue between Long and Philips is fun and original, and none of that self-aware, pretentious crap we usually hear. It's very natural. They play roadgames and bicker like a brother and sister would, and everything seems fine, until this very natural threat of a creepy car roaring up behind them tries to run them right into the corn field. It's scary and very effective, and when they see the truck again, and it comes after them again (in the most frightening scene of the movie), it only seems to get better. Then they go back to investigate, and for some reason, the pace slows down a little. It's not as creepy, I don't know why. Then they get to the diner, and from then on, the movie never picks up again. Sure, there's action, and most of the same stuff is going on, but it's just not scary anymore. By the time Trish and Darry get to the police station, it's downright boring.I think the problem is, everything is quickly revealed, and the mystery and the creepiness about the movie is lifted. We quickly figure out what's going on, we see who (or what) the Creeper really is (very cheesy, actually, should have kept the big jacket and hat on), and the relevance to the title of the movie is realized (something else that should have stayed under wraps, or never used at all). Also, the characters of the two cops and the Cat Lady are thrown in our way and quickly disposed of, only slowing down the pace even more. Then the psychic, Jezelle, shows up, and is more of an annoyance than anything else, and she tells us everything that's going on. I can understand maybe why that method was used skip the long revelation, move on to the action. But in this case, it didn't work.I think the movie would have worked really well if Darry, Trish, and the Creeper were the only characters in the movie, and the setting was the open road and a few abandoned buildings. The Creeper could never be revealed to us, and maybe it wouldn't matter why he was doing what he was doing. To mention Duel again, what if he was just some form of evil. Or just a jerk.Still, Justin Long and Gina Philips turn in great performances, and have so much chemistry together. They only help in making the first half-hour so great. But not even their acting could carry the audience through the tedious hour that ensues. Hopefully the sequel will be better.  "},{"Title":"A spoof that is actually spooky","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, this film is a spoof that doesn't take the cheap laughs route of Scary Movie but actually attempts to be a bit scary. It conforms to all the typical cliches of the genre - the young kids who return to the creepers house when they know its too dangerous, the running out of petrol, the inadequate protection of the police - but this adds to the experience. The film does contain some memorable chills, such as the police escort scene (a classic killing by anyones standing) and the discovery of the sack at the end of the underground tube.The plot is more incoherent than this review, which adds to the chaos and confusion - what use does the psychic woman really serve to the plot? And the characterisation is hardly anything more than predictable and mediocre. We never feel sympathy for the main characters, which makes it more satisfying when one gets murdered.Personally, I found the ending was a surprise because it was so abrupt and unusual. I can understand why people would hate this - but if you've got an open mind and a wish for something not so predictable as you're maybe used to in the horror genre then this is recommended.This film is as much a comedy as a horror - just check the scene when the monster comes after them with one foot missing! Just don't go with any high expectations of it being really scary, because you'll be disappointed. Definitely rent before you buy. "},{"Title":"Horror, Yeah Right!!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When me and my dad went to see this film we thought that this would be a fun horror movie with plenty of scares. WE WERE WRONG, instead of jumping out of our seats in horror or screaming we were laughing at the stupidity of this movie. Do not see this movie!  "},{"Title":"Starts out promising...","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers had the makings of a fun, very decent creepshow.  Some of the opening scenes are extremely disturbing and get under your skin (in a good way).  You are ready for further instances of terror and morbidity.  Then you get to see the creature and see how indestructible he is.  First, seeing what the creature is and what he does makes you want to laugh (not in a good way).  Second, the creature being super-powerful is nothing new and the filmmakers don't even try to attempt anything new with that genre. Ultimately, the film descends into an unoriginal, unabashed piece of trash that takes itself too seriously.  The filmmakers obviously noticed how uninspired their film is and put in a deeply nasty twist of an ending (but don't see the movie just for the twist-- it isn't worth it).  However, two redeeming factors in the film are Gina Philips and Justin Long who play the siblings.  They definitely have bright futures.  Unfortunately, I can't say the same about the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Big Letdown","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"       After much hype and what looked to be a cool movie from the commercials; I was very let down by this seemingly low-budget thriller.     MINI SPOILERS    First of all, if someone is trying to chase me off the road, the last thing I am going to do is hang around and go back to look down a spooky pipe that I saw them dump a body down.    Secondly, only the sister character plays to be anywhere near believeable.  The brother turns from a macho, wanna explore and do the right thing type, to a whining wuss who has less balls than a body-builder on steroids.    And the ending is a pseudo-ripoff of the blair witch project.  If you arent a die-hard horror fan, you'll do yourself justice to miss this one.  4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good stormy night stuff.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 90 minHaving recently watched 'From Dusk till Dawn' I wasn't overly impressed by the gore in Jeepers Creepers. Five minutes of character development is allowed before the baddie makes his debue, which at least creates some link with the brother and sister dynamic duo. The acting is above average even if Darry (the brother) hops a little too smoothly between terror (which he does well) and normality.Over all the horror is OK, a little more detail and time would have been welcomed.6/10 worth watching, if you like horror, gore and satanic beasts. "},{"Title":"Teen brother and sister get attacked by the driver of a very ugly truck. A horror film that will chill your blood. 4 And A Half Flys out of five.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers CreepersI can't class myself as a horror film expert. How could you be if you see little more than the films given a wide commercial release, but Jeepers Creepers is a real beauty. I was scared and worried. Great entertainment. It has elements of both Duel and Predator!You know you're having a great time at a horror flick when you're just about yelling out at characters about the peril they face if they go in THERE! That's early on in the film though. After a while I just sort of shrunk down into my seat and hoped for the best.Made by the controversial Harry Salva (Powder, Clownhouse), Jeepers Creepers shows a teen brother and sister (Justin Long and Gina Philips) travelling a country road on the way home from college. They get attacked from behind by an ugly strange truck and then later apparently see bodies getting dumped into a hole by the driver of that truck.They foolishly return to see what that was about and then things go from horrible to worse. They become targeted by something and that something gets very strange and dangerous indeed. I'm trying not to give too much away here.Jeepers Creepers hasn't got much of the self mocking that's become popular with Scream. There is just a little bit of humour but Jeepers is just a very effective, old fashioned horror movie designed to scare and entertain.Not a lot of money has been spent but that sort of roughness suits this sort of production and it certainly doesn't look amateurish. That's the beauty of hiring no-name actors &#150; your money can go into very plausible special effects.Jeepers Creepers should get those stomach juices sloshing about.4 And A Half Flys  "}{"Title":"A modest gem.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS***'JEEPERS CREEPERS' is a wonderfully scary and entertaining entry into the 'teen slasher' genre. What sets this apart from others of its ilk is its reliance on genuine tension, built from a sense of unease in its believable setup.Two teenaged siblings, (Gina Phillips & Justin Long), are travelling home from college. With echoes of 'DUEL' they are first tailgated by an angry truck driver, before being run off the road. Driving further along, they discover the truck driver disposing of a cloth wrapped blood soaked package. They stop to investigate, plunging them into a night of terror.Fellow reviewers have criticised this film for having a satisfactory opening, but then losing the plot as the mayhem begins. I tend to believe the opposite; once the initial premise has been established, screenwriter/director Victor Salva really has fun playing around with the genre. In the self-referential way the characters spoke, and incidents occured, I was reminded of Wes Craven's horror masterpeice 'SCREAM' (1996), (at one stage a character is criticised as behaving like the character everyone hates in a horror movie; you know, the one that always investigates the strange noise.) While 'CREEPERS' is not in quite the same audacious league as that film, Salva has some fun saluting Craven himself, Spielberg's afore mentioned 'DUEL,' Tobe Hooper's cult classic 'THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE,' and David Lynch's repotoire of films. He also casts largely forgotten 1960's-70's actress Eileen Brennan in a small role; she contributes the film's single funniest line as she takes on The Creeper 'I'll blow his f***in' head off!'As director, Salva handles his chores beautifully, reverentially saluting various cult directors, (Another TCM reference The opening scene, showing the car approach slowly from the distance, is a cheeky slaute to the opening scene of TCM.) He creates a Lynchian feel to this film, bringing the viewer into a world where there are no limits to how bizarre things can get.The concept of a monster chasing teenagers around a ghostly town/haunted house/castle/island is not an original idea. This film benefits from its fresh spin on this concept. Instead of a cast full of 'DAWSON'S CREEK'/'BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER' former cast memebers, we have two virtual unknowns playing the lead roles, and little else to support them. No big cast to be slaughtered one by one, (although characters do get slaughtered in this film, in rather macabre ways.) Phillips and Long bring believability to their roles as brother and sister through a convincing sibling rapport. Patricia Belcher (what a name!) also brings laughs to her stereotypical role of the crazy psychic who no one believes -- until it's too late.I have a feeling that 'JEEPERS CREEPERS' will be a film that will exist outside of mainstream cinema -- the sort of film that will be looked back upon in twenty years time and considered to be a (minor) classic horror film. For the moment, it will appear too similar to 'I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER' to attract a different crowd and the crowd expecting that is likely to be dissapointed. I sincerely hope this is not the case, and it goes on to be very succesful. As for the final scene and the title tune, -- think carefully!Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"very good film, but had a few problems","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  * may contain minor spoilers *When i first heard of this film it read best horror in 10 years, my expectations were pretty high but fell a bit when i seen the age classification was 15, im a gory horror fan and i hate horrors lower than 18 so i thought i would give it a miss, on halloween me and my friends were wanting to watch a horror at the cinema, we had either this or the others i didnt want to see either but my friends chose jeepers creepers so i thought bugger it, i didnt want to be a saddo and spoil so i went. After it had finished i thought that it was good, very good. The things i liked were the villain, the killings , and the end, i wont spoil it for those who still havent seen it but its very unexpected. My biggest problem was how the villain changed first he was a scary sinister cowboy guy then he changed into a crappy version of the wishmaster, i got pretty annoyed then. 1 other problem was at the end the monster had the guy and loads of cops burst in with shotguns and assault rifles i thought the monsters dead now but they did nothing but stand there while the monster squeled and flew away that was pathetic. thats it for them so if your a gore fan like me dont right this off just yet because it is very good. "},{"Title":"For once, believe the jacket fresh, unique, SCARY","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had forgotten anything I'd heard about Jeepers Creepers.  But I rented it on the strength of the jacket's quotations from the LA Times and Clive Barker, to the effect that the beginning is terrifying, and the overall effect is unique and stylish.  That is usually a very risky practice.  Turns out those comments were dead-on on this case.The movie is anchored on a believable brother-sister pair, starts off at its own pacing, and then with a firm wrench starts cranking up the Terror-O-Meter.  You'll know when you get there, and just know that it keeps getting more, and more, and more intense.I hate folks who drop spoilers, and I won't be one of them.  I'll just say that I've seen quite a few horror movies (more's the pity), and don't scare easily.  But if someone in my dark house had spoken from behind me at numerous points, they'd've had to peel me off the ceiling.One major plot resolution is not at all as I'd wish, and maybe itself accounts for my 8 (rather than 9) rating.  But it is within the realm of horror; if you get a horror movie, you know you can't count on everything working out as you'd like.Fresh, well-handled, avoiding cliches and providing genuine surprises- if you like scary movies, I very much recommend Jeepers Creepers. "},{"Title":"Promising Start Then....BANG!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is a review that i will put out in the open and be straight to the point about. First of all what is it with the title? It sounds as if a 5 year old made that one out. The film starts off quiet good, we are put into the two main characters shoes, beautiful country scenery, great cinemtography, and the first 30 minutes of the film really does give you that horror movie atmosphere, it was cool, i WAS enjoying it. The movie had alot of mystery for the first 30 minutes, it had great music and sound, the film basically was gripping and interesting, yet the biggest mistake the film had to offer was the Creepers themselves, or should i say the Creeper himself, after the first 30 minutes the movie turns to a Buffy episode gone wrong.The acting was mediocore, nothing fancy at all, the faces were quiet fresh too. The script was a huge downside of the movie, its so bad that it actually confuses you with whether the film is a HORROR or a COMEDY, it certainly starts off seeming like a horror movie, but the more characters that progress in the film, the movie gets more boring, predictable and plain silly. The actors themselves seemed to want to laugh with its atrocious plot. Jeepers Creepers is a bad Horror movie...No wait, I meant Jeepers Creepers is a bad comedy....Or whatever the genre is! You figure it out.ACTING The acting by the main cast wasn't very good, especially the male lead, he didn't have the slightest clue with his character, yet i wouldn't blame him...They had to read one of the worst scripts, if not the worst they will come across.ACTORS There were alot of characters, yet no-one exactly First Class, theres nothing wrong with introducing new faces to Hollywood, but please...Dont let their first movie be one of the worst of the year, it obviously wont progress them very far.CINEMA Cinematography was good, yet it was especially noticeable during the first 30 minutes, a good enough job, some beautifully shot scenes in great,eerie environments.SCRIPT Wow, is there a word to sum it up? LAME? CRAP? RUBBISH? TRASHY? AMATEUR? LOW-BROW? Just every word that sums up Bad,because it really was that bad, they place you in that great Horror Atmosphere,*SPOILER* and dissapoint you when you find out all the damn JEEPERS CREEPERS want to do is smell your socks and underwear,*END SPOILER* eeeeeeek! Now that IS Scary.THRILLS Pretty minimal, they use alot of Cliches, and i was pretty unimpressed, they got some of the atmosphere right, yet with a plot like that, who would care? The thrills came every now and then, yet definantley its a THRILL not worth the ride.MUSIC/SOUND Average, nothing astonishing, oh yes they do play the 60's Jeepers Creepers music, oh boy! That was really lame as well, otherwise there is barely any music, the sound was ok, but used mainly to work upon a Cliche.OVERALL Well i cant stress out enough to you all, if you are looking for horror film to watch with a girlfriend, and think that you will get lucky by being able to get closer to her, think again...This film is just such an insult to its genre, its films like these that stop producers from even thinking about making another horror movie, JEEPERS CREEPERS felt more like a spoof than a Horror, actually it reminded me of IDLE HANDS...Only that was actually WORTH watching.*1/2 stars (OUT OF *****)  "},{"Title":"A really bad movie..","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was a really bad movie.  The acting was okay, but the plot, oh my gosh, it was so bad.  The ending did not make sense at all, but i guess the reason why they did that was because they need to leave people wondering for the second one they are making.  I didnt like the movie, but i'm still curious to see the second one.  I guess it hooked me, but I still didnt like it.  I would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea- bad execution","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In light of the 350+ previous comments I'm not going to bother going over the plot and I'll simply make a couple of observations.Potential spoilers.The film started out OK but went downhill fairly quickly. I could forgive the stupid kids. I could forgive the stupid police. I could even forgive the obligatory old cat lady getting it. What I can't forgive is the silly ass monster they came up with.The idea of a creature that only becomes active every 23 years for a period of 23 days and that incorporates the parts of it's victims that it eats could have resulted in a pretty good flick. Alas it was not to be. The film makers felt obligated to use a guy in a cheesy rubber mask and suit, complete with wings for God's sake. Obviously they never read anything by H.P. Lovecraft and they never learned that the horror you DON'T SEE is infinitely more horrifying than anything that can be conjured up by the author/film maker.If they had resisted the impulse to play with their special effects and had simply left the monster/creature cloaked and hidden in the dark they would have produced a film that was genuinely scary and not something that reminded me of a script that was rejected by the X-Files. Make the creature an alien and swap Sculley and Mulder for the stupid kids and it would might have been an interesting episode. As it was it was a lousy movie instead.Wait a minute it *was* an X-Files episode in Season One starring Victor Eugene Toombs. I knew it looked familiar...... -)I'd give it a pass unless you really like silly rubber monsters and stupid victims. "},{"Title":"Better than average and actually scary for once...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie not really expecting much from it... and it suprised me. Even though the movie does not explain much of why things are happening it is very entertaining and actually scary.  I am a person that rents every new horror movie that comes out in hopes that it will actually be scary for once and I have to say that this is fairly scary and tense.  The ending is disturbing.  Very good movie to rent.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a scary horror movie...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie only aware of one review which kind of knocked the whole thing.  It looked like a Saturday night, turn the brain off kinda thing, so I went along expecting a cheezy teen horror film.What I really got knocked my socks off.  The opening half hour is harrowing, knowingly tipping its hat to movies such as The Hills Have Eyes or Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  And the best way it does that is to get us into the heads of the two lead characters.  They may not be likeable or perfect, but they are real.  So when they find themselves in trouble, you're scared with them.And when you find out eventually who's chasing them, even though it requires a big leap of faith, you take it.Any prospective film makers out there should watch this movie.  Just give us characters to believe in and we'll believe in your movies.And even if the ending isn't quite right, we'll go along with the ride.Eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Completely ridiculous.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have just seen this movie and read some of the comments here. How anybody can still say they felt for the main characters after dozens of their completely idiotic decisions is beyond me. But what the heck, as long as the creep is scary right? Well, I must agree with the rest that the first 30-40 minutes he IS. You don't know what or who he is, and that works. But after that..... Well he just doesn't have it, does he? He looks like a copy-pasted Sith from the Star Wars movies minus the make-up and plus some wings. Furthermore, the plot is non-existent, the ending is completely crap, every survivor we see longer than two seconds is obviously meant to come back in the sequel, and I've seen better acting in National Geographic documentaries.Best horror movie ever? More like the worst bad taste, bad acting, bad plot, bad guy who should have stayed anonymous, and  worst of all it lacks any form of humour. Ugh... As I was watching this movie with some friends, the main comment was (advice to main characters) no... don't... ohhhh... too late, you did. And this for the full length of the film. It gives you an idea of the feelings you'll get when seeing this movie. Well, at least you can say it is an emotional experience watching it.I'm glad at least one of the two dies at the end. If only they had killed the other one rightaway too; at least it would diminish the chances on a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Refreshing & Creepy!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What A Nice Surprise It Was To See Something Like This After All The Teenage Crap Being Spewed Out Over The Past 10 Years. This Movie Relied More On Fear Than Gore & Sex. The Atmosphere Reminded Me Of The Daytime In Chainsaw Massacre. The Characters Weren't Superhero High School Students With An Amazing Ability To Fist Fight & Make Smart Ass Remarks. Darry & Trish Are Truly Frightened Throughout The Entire Movie. They Don't Stand Up To There Predator With A Rebellious, I'm Tired Of This.. Attitude. They Do What Anybody With Any Common Sense Would Do And Run Like Hell! However, Once the Predator Is Revealed More Clearly, The Movie Has A Bit Of A From Dusk Till Dawn Feeling. Almost Like The Plot Has Completely Changed.  I Think This Change in Atmosphere Is Why Some Are Not Going To Enjoy It. Any Horror Fan Will Be Ecstatic Over The Ending. What A Nice Change Of Pace From All The Typical Hollywood Endings. I Found That Any Discomfort Over The Twist In The Movie Is Made Up For 10 Fold By The Finale. I Give This movie 1 and A Half Eyes Open & Would Recommend It To Those Who Love Suspense And Fear Without The Interuptions of Sex. Gore & Attitude. It's Creepy!  "}{"Title":"A film for kids","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am not sure. Maybe I am too old for this kind of movies - only 30 - or maybe it is not a movie to be made in 2001. But the result is that during the first 40 minutes - or maybe less than that - Jeepers Creepers could be considered interesting, while sometimes a bit slow and too similar to other films. But when the mistery of the film reveals - which is, when you find out who the bad guy is - the only thing left is laughter and the thought of Gee, I could be at home doing so many things instead of wasting my time and money here. Considering the wars, the hunger, the deseases, the violence, and so many other really scary things that happen nowadays all around the world, I do not think that a stupid pseudo-monster is good enough to scare anyone. At least no one over 16 years old. "},{"Title":"Great, scary movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *NOTE* There are most likely going to be spoilers, so if you haven't seen the movie, don't read any further!When I went to see Jeepers Creepers in theaters, I was expecting a fantastic movie -- the trailers were very frightening and cool-looking.  Needless to say, I was not disappointed.  The film was full of thrills and chills and also a lot of humor.  Basically, I loved it!The movie begins with a brother, Darry, and a sister, Trish, driving home from college on spring break.  They're attacked by a mysterious man, who is driving a rickety old truck, and who they later see dumping what appears to be a body down a sewage pipe near a deserted church.  Curious, they go back to investigate and discover hundreds of bodies at the bottom of the pipe. For the rest of the movie, there are several nail-biting scenes as the Creeper unmercifully stalks Trish and Darry, until the final, hair-raising showdown in a police station.All in all, an AWESOME movie that escapes most horror movies cliches and combines elements from old classics and new modern flicks.  Definitely buy or rent this on video!I strongly recommend the DVD there's deleted scenes, a really in-depth behind-the-scenes documentary, cast/crew bios, and a lot more. "},{"Title":"Starts great, ends badly.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Despite the two stupefyingly annoying lead characters, this film starts off in a terrifying manner, and builds slowly to about the 2/3 mark.  Once the killer is revealed, the film slowly goes down the toilet, culminating in a truly rotten ending, which leaves the door open for the ineluctable spate of sequels.*1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Final 20 minutes nearly makes up for other 70","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Remember back in 1974, when the now-famous Texas Chainsaw Massacre made its debut? Okay, neither do I. But I did see it later, on video, and it still scares the bejeezus out of me today. What made that film work was that it was low budget (and therefore more realistic) and that the gore was so... well, so disgusting, for 1974. But the best part of the movie was that it was a popcorn movie - the kind where you'd warn the people in the movie not to go downstairs, and so on. It's pure escapism. Jeepers Creepers fits into this mold. It's an escape movie. You don't watch it to learn things; you watch it for plain old mind-numbing entertainment. The movie is about two siblings driving along a long, quiet country road on their way home from college. A madman in a big, souped-up, customized truck tailgates them, then runs them off the road. Later, they see him dumping something down a huge pipe. And sure, they stop to investigate. I mean, wouldn't you? As in many escapism movies, the characters consistently do profoundly stupid things, like climb down the pipe, don't go for help, don't get the heck out there like right now, and so on. It's the old Scooby Doo mentality; let's solve this puzzle, huh gang?For much of the movie, I laughed heartily. But hey! you say. It's not a comedy, is it? Right on, it's not a comedy. It's a horror film. And I wasn't laughing at stuff that was supposed to be funny. I was laughing at stuff that was supposed to be scary. That's not a good quality to have in a horror movie, folks.So I had a good idea of how I was going to rate this movie. Pretty cheesy, I thought to myself. Effects aren't bad, acting is, kind of forgettable.But then the final 20 minutes or so came. And man, let me tell you - this is some serious fear. The final few scenes are better than anything else in the movie put together. There's dramatic tension AND good effects. That hardly ever happens in modern horror films. And the final shot? Absolutely memorable. This movie went up a few points on the basis of those final scenes.   "},{"Title":"Í won't tell you why this one is a nine...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...because the less you know about this movie the more surprising it is. Just go to the videostore, rent the DVD, do not even read the short description on the back. I am sorry not to tell you more and hope this goes with the guidelines but trust me if I wouldn't have read about it before I'd rated it ten...Watch it and I bet you will agree... "},{"Title":"Borrows elements from other horror flicks to make a so-so film","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The start of this movie is very enjoyable and scary.  Though it heavily borrows elements from classics like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, I think it is done very effectively.Personally, what I like about the classic suspense/horror movies is that we don't always get to see the serial killer/maniac/psycho/demon up close. We sometimes have to use our imagination.  This film could've certainly benefited from that.  The Creeper looks like Leprachaun (from the movie), but 6'5 and with wings, kinda silly if you ask me -- which is exactly what the plot of this movie becomes after the opening scenes, silly.The ending of this movie is also pretty good, so I won't spoil it for you. All in all, this movie is better than Leprachaun, though it doesn't have Jennifer Aniston... "},{"Title":"Better than most","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You have to be a little forgiving with the genre.  If this movie had come out 15 years ago, it would have been a classic, but the ideas have been played-out.  Still, this movie had some unique scenes and situations in it that I've never seen before.  If you're the type of person who sees every new horror movie that comes-out in the hopes that you'll see something really scary and original, this isn't it, but it's definitely worth an hour and a half.Better than average horror. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"this is a great horror/thriller","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie's name says it all. it is one of the creepiest movies that i have ever seen. and i would see it again. i would recommend this movie to anyone in the mood for a thriller horror.it starts out slow, and takes a while to pick up the pace, but soon you'll start to feel for the characters. i didn't think that the movie looked cheap in anyway. i don't think that it needed many special FX it has a lot of mystery and once it gets rolling it'll keep u on the edge of your seat. my only problem w/ it was the lack of information. the director did an excellent job of hiding what the creeper thing was, and its purpose. it absolutely gives nothing away to you. but obviously if u have common sense u'll catch on fast. the unusual, surprise ending leaves u feeling stupid, and saying to yourself Huh,thats the end?but it leaves plenty of room for a sequel.. although i must admit, i wouldn't have the slightest clue how they would even be able to do a 2nd w/out it being a stupid predictable teen movie. but still i would see the sequel. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what I expected.....","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers had a strong reputation as one of the scariest movies of 2001 and got a few good reviews too.Jeepers is a horror movie about two colleges students Trish and Darry who find and become the chase of an evil creature on their way home from college. This creature eats humans to regenerate itself and its mission will be now to get something from Trish's brother Darry. A thing that surprisingly will be shown at the end of the film.As a major horror movie, Jeepers' special make-up & visual effects are very good also the sound effects and score are very effective all the way.But trying to mix extended doses of black humor to an already very weak story, makes the movie even more vulnerable, and of course, when that happens, most of the time, the film does lose its nature.The dialogues are poor and seemed to be designed for `I-know-what-you&#133;&#133;' minded teenagers who by the way are the target of these types of films.Jeepers Creepers have a very few good moments but the whole movie didn't move ahead and was not what I expected.  "},{"Title":"Had potential, but ended up disappointing.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two teens are returning home from college for spring break and are traveling on a back country highway through hundreds of miles of farmland with almost no people in sight.  They are playing games trying to decipher the coded messages in vanity license plates and exchanging sibling rivalry quips and banter when, without warning, they are almost run off the road by a rusted, beat-up, '40s era pickup truck.  After a slight recovery, and a few more friendly jibes, tensions return to normal until the teens notice the same truck pulled to the side of the road.  Slowing down to watch the driver of the truck as they pass, they witness something that horrifies them to their core.Jeepers Creepers had tremendous potential at this point with a plausible and suspenseful build-up, but it slowly frittered away that ethos with a series of unrealistic forays into the supernatural and, worst of all, zero plot or motive exploration.Had there at least been some suggestion as to the motives behind the horror or maybe some more back-story to the evil character then suspension of disbelief could've helped the suggestion of supernatural forces.  But just because he's evil isn't good enough.This movie had the potential of being a truly scary and original horror movie, but it ended up being clichéd, formulaic and entirely unrealistic in the end.Clive Barker called Jeepers Creepers the one of the most scary and stylish horror movies he has seen in a long time.  It would appear now that Clive Barker doesn't get out much. "}{"Title":"A lot of potential falls flat","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **WARNING - POTENTIAL SPOILERS**As in all artistic endeavors, there are very few ideas that haven't been played out. In the horror genre, nearly everything has become cliche. Despite this, for a while this movie is legitimately creepy. The remoteness of the surroundings and feeling of helpless solitude amplify the tension early on. Neither of the lead roles were familiar faces to me, so you aren't comforted with any certainty of their ultimate safety at any time. That the beast drove around in broad daylight in a rusty, hulking truck was a nice touch.When the monster is revealed, the movie loses a lot of its impact. I found the beast much more threatening as an unknown, rather than the winged costume store goon it eventually turns out to be. While the absorbing qualities from its victims is a nice twist reminiscent of Lovecraft, there are numerous messy spots. The demon is crippled after being run down by the car, yet police bullets at near point-blank range bounce off of him. Despite this, the demon seems apprehensive at the presence of police guns near the end during his abduction of Darry. The addition of the psychic woman seems a nice idea at first, but beyond her initial introduction she is hardly memorable. She claims she sees future events in her dreams, yet also claims to know what the demon calls his lair and then tosses out some mumbo-jumbo about a 23 day time period the demon is allowed to kill. (23rd spring)If she only sees what will be, how does she know all the details about the monster?  Her continual foreshadowing on the ending also completely deflates what might otherwise have been a creepy conclusion.  All in all what starts strong ultimately falls flat, and Jeepers Creepers joins the ranks of other average wait-for-rent fare. It will undoubtably have multiple tiresome sequels before withering away...as I write this review, I notice a sequel is already underway. That's unfortunate.  "},{"Title":"SUPERB HORROR MOVIE","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  By far, Jeepers Creepers is one of the best horror movies i have seen in a LONG time!! Although its full potential wasnt portrayed, Jeepers Creepers is still alot of fun.The acting was excellent. The hot Gina Phillips (Trish) and the talented Justin Long (Darry) really made you think they were brother and sister. This movie was well worth it! Even though critics slammed it, i loved it. Take the chance and watch it. Rent it. ITS GREAT!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT! The ending was shocking. Try to get this movie on DVD because the original ending was much scarier. I am looking forward to a sequel soon. Halloween used to be my all time fave. horror movie but Jeepers Creepers just won over HalloweeN!!9/10 stars! "},{"Title":"What the hell was that all about?","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've watched many movies and I've seen some pretty bad ones. I can't think of any movie that was worse than this one. The first half hour nearly put me to sleep. but I had good company so i stayed awake. I kept waiting for some kin of plot to come in to play but one never came around. The acting sucked. What was the deal with the old black lady  and the stupid cat lady. And Trish learn how to drive your damn car Find them don't grind them If you have any common sense please don't watch this. The sadest part of this all is their gonna have a second one.  Great bed time movie. "},{"Title":"couldve been better but chose not to be","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since this movie came out i wanted to see it. It looked cool and I like horror movies anyways, so since i couldn't get a chance to see it in theaters, me and some friends rented it last night. Like everyone is saying, it starts out great. But after that it levels out for about an hour, then it picks right back up again until the end, which is sudden. Not particularly dissapointing, just sudden and unexpected. The plot is great. A pair of twin brother and sister are driving home from college. For some reason which either I didn't pick up or isn't mentioned they end up on a long and seemingly deserted highway in the middle up some great country backgrounds. They begin playing a license plate game to pass the time. They see an old truck with a vanity plate which says BEATINGU. Take a guess what that means, it is pretty obivous to everyone who ISNT in the movie. Anyway, later they see the same truck a little farther down the road, parked near a church. The driver (dressed completely in black) is taking bundles wrapped in sheets out of the trunk and throwing them down a pipe. Yeah, the bundles are what you think they are, it aint that hard to figure out. The driver sees them and runs them off of the road after a short chase. He then drives away for some reason at all. The boy gets little curious as to what the driver was doing. You know where it goes from there if you've been researching this movie. This movie has a great bad guy, cool death scenes, and okay acting by the only two real characters in the whole movie, the twins. But, it has some flaws. Actually, it has alot. The score is the most annoying I've ever heard. Its not even music, its a motor (yes, a MOTOR) revving up over and over again in a loop whenever something happens. Theres a strange Mrs. Cleo-like woman who does nothing to explain what this creature (demon, devil?) is or why it does what it does or how to stop it, and so has nothing to add to the film except more confusion. The movie takes a reeeaaallly long time to get moving, but I guess it has to if you really think about it, because it has to go through the normal introduction of setting, character developement, and to fire up the story a little. I'd say the ending is the main reason that more than 300 people who saw it gave this movie a 1 rating and only half that gave the movie a 10. It is VERY sudden, because you think that there is going to be a final showdown between the survivors of the creatures final rampage rather than what really happens. It really blindsides you. But I guess thats because there was a sequel in mind all along. I hope that the sequel can heal the originals wounds/ "},{"Title":"Not Creepy enough","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The trailer for Jeepers Creepers was extremely good. This is an example of false advertising. The beginning was solid. It was a brother and Sister on their way home from college and spot a guy in an army truck toss a body down the tube. After they go and look down the tube it gets pretty lame and unscary. The part with the cat lady was a little creepy but the rest of the movie except for the beginning was not at all creepy. The sequel might be a little better, because i would like to see how they kill the creeper. "},{"Title":"85 minutes cruelly snatched from my life!!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film was about as pleasurable as having wisdom teeth extracted! I am very glad I didn't waste 7.50 at the theater to view this particular movie. I do not think this movie was at all original and you can bet your bottom dollar that I won't waste 7.50 to see the sequel either! "},{"Title":"J33PER5 CR33PER5!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having read most of the comments here beforehand, I sat down to watch Jeepers Creepers expecting a terrifying first 30 Mins slowly turn into a crappy sub-standard horror flick.Well maybe it was a result of having seriously lowered expectations but I absolutely loved this movie.First of all the performances by the two lead actors were outstanding, never have I cared so much about a couple of Teens in a horror movie.Furthermore the level of tension was sustained right through to the last (shocking) scene with only a small amount of humour thrown in to let you off the hook. And whilst I acknowledge that the tone of the film does indeed shift from being a nail-biting mystery to more of a straight,conventional type of Horror flick at around the 30 Minute mark, the film does not lose any of it's power to terrify.Those who criticize Jeepers Creepers for failing to give a satisfying explanation of 'The Creeper' and his motivations are,in my opinion, missing the point. What made it unnerving was the very fact that his background story is only lightly sketched out(admittedly quite clumsily)and let's face it, do we really need to know? It's all about fear of the unknown.All in all this has got to be one of the best horror movies i've seen, and I've seen a few. Excellent acting, Direction and story combine to make this a great choice for an evening's viewing. Oh and the ending, which has been the subject of much discussion, was pretty shocking but also absolutely perfect. "},{"Title":"starts off creepy but I don't know what happened after that","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was supposed to be good.  I heard from several people that it gave them nightmares and that it was the scariest movie they had ever seen. I had to see it.  During the beginning it was scary with the two teenagers rideing in a car in the middle of nowhere and all the sudden they are being hurassed by a big truck that tries to run them off the road.  After the truck leaves, the two teens continue to drive and discover the driver of the truck dumping dead bodies out of his truck into a pipe.  And the look of this guy is creepy.  I wish he would have stayed that way instead of becomming nothing but another big scary monster.  The brother of the teens wants to investigate the pipe and ends up in the bottom of something that looks like it may have been a well or an underground tunnel of some sort. he discovers bodies that are sewn together that look like cheep crappy plastic dummies and give no sense of realism here.  As he discovers what is happening he and his sister go out to call the police and the film drops from there.  It becomes nothing more than a short story or a story seen on the series Monsters or Tales from the darkside other than a movie. The rst of the movie is about the demon going out killing people, sniffing clothes and playing Jeepers Creepers which is the cheeziest part of the film adding that song to the dialoge.  And the ending was full of crap and left you wondering Thats it?  I bet the sequel is just as cheezy. Filmakers can try as hard as they can but never will they make a decent movie after Halloween and Carrie. "},{"Title":"Well executed Horror film with a deeper context than you realize.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A recent trend in horror films of late is combining tradition horrorelements with homo erotic themes. (i.e.) The Brotherhood, VoodooAcademy etc. Victor Salvia fuses these circumstances togetherseamlessly. Go with me on this, if you've seen the movie.Consider, if you will, the gay references in the car scenes. Darrysees (gay forever) in a license plate while playing a game andlater his sister jokingly infers he's gay. Later on, at the diner, thedemon creature is sniffing Darry's clothes and the camera lingerson a pair of Darry's white briefs, which have his name on them.Now he knows my name! Other bits of homo erotica includes thedemon deep kissing the cop,  a deleted scene (found only on theDVD) of the demon telling Darry The old lady doesn't smell good,Darry.  The hidden context of the movie when viewed a secondtime is  The demon wants Darry -- period.  Q What male demonwouldn't want the sexy Gina Phillips? (she plays the sister) A Whya gay demon, of course. My hats off to Salvia I think he donegood.  GET THE DVD -- the director's comments and deleted/extendedscenes make the second or third viewing more enjoyable.Furthermore, THE ORIGINAL ENDING IS MUCH BETTER. (only onDVD) Love those eyes. Victor -- you created a sexy and scary film.Can't wait to see Jeeper's Creepers Part Two The Next Night. This director/writer (previous films include Clownhouse andPowder) is someone to watch closely because  he's going to gofar!!! ******stars----- "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes of the movie are promising.  Two kids on the lonesome road, heading home from college.  Then a maniac in a bizare truck tries to run them off the road (very Duel-esque!)  From then on it goes straight to hell!  I know that horror movie characters are supposed to do stupid things, but these two kids make Ralph Wiggam look like Stephen Hawking.  Plot twists?  No!  Special Effects?  Awful!  Story that makes any sense at all?  Please!If you're with someone in a video store and they suggest renting Jeepers Creepers do what the stupid kids should have done after the first fifteen minutes of the movie and RUN AWAY! "}{"Title":"Starts out good, but quickly becomes another cliched horror movie aimed at teens.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (WARNING THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS, SO PLEASE READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.)>>Pros An edge-of-your-seat beginning; the protagonists are decent actors; a not-so-happy ending, which is a change in horror movies>>Cons The movie quickly sells out its originality for tired horror movie cliches; corny special effects; what the killer is and why it does what it does is never clearly explained>>Plot summary A brother and sister are traveling on a country highway from college on their way home to visit their parents.  However, a mysterious, huge truck is right behind them, with the driver driving maniacally in hopes of getting the 2 to pass them.  The driver finally passes them, and the 2 continue their trip down the highway.  A little while later, they see the big truck again parked next to an abandoned church, and a mysterious man dumping bodies down a big sewer pipe.  The mysterious man sees that they saw him, and tries to chase them.  They escape the insane driver, and the brother, in a typical, cliched horror movie fashion, decides to go back and see what the man dumped down the pipe.  The brother accidently falls downs the pipe, and finds a cellar filled to the brim with corpses taken apart and sewn back together.  The brother escapes, but is scared beyond definition of what he witnessed.  They try to go to the authorities, and as usual in this genre, are of no real help, and the killer is right on their tail.  What the siblings don't know yet is that the killer isn't human at all; the killer is a humanoid demon that takes pleasure into eating and collecting human body parts.>>Review F*** it.  I'm not even going to try this movie, as going through all the details of what's good and what's bad about this movie is a complete waste of time.  Just read my pros and cons on this movie, because that's about as much as a movie review you're going to get from me on this bad horror movie.  Luckily, I didn't pay for this rental from Blockbuster.>>My last 2 cents For a truly frightening experience, watch the Genocyber anime series.>>My rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding! Different from others..","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was one scary movie.  Suspense was GREAT!New comers like Gina Philips and Justin Long did a terrific job.  Justin Long's acting really surprised me.  They really did a great job on not showing the killer, errr... monster until almost at the end of the movie.  The only thing I didn't like about this movie was the monster looked kind of lame.  But other than that, this movie will scare the heck out of you until it's over.  Plus the ending is very surprising.  I wanted to find out more about the monster, but oh well...  I'm looking forward to Jeepers Creepers 2 (Night Two) next year.8/10 "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film starts out cleverly but after thirty minutes, everything goes downhill.  When the characters first spot the creature, the plot becomes weak and unbelievable.  Such is the case when the young man falls down the well.  For the most part, The problem lies in the poor screenplay. Besides this scene being fake and unbelievable, certain inconsistencies occur. The film weakly tries to grasp attention but the weak plot impedes the viewer from following the film by playing with a shifting reality.  Lastly, the ending is a surprise but not a very good one at that.  One gets the feeling of being unsatisfied and being taken advantage of.   "},{"Title":"The ending makes it all worth while!!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A teen horror film such as Jeepers Creepers has been a long time in coming, but now it is here it proves it was worth the wait.With the use of an unknown but extremely talented cast Jeepers Creepers caught my attention from the word go. Allthough this film does contain typical horror genre techniques the film's story gives it much more 21st century feel. By encorporating the old with the new this film was very effective.When I saw this film my friends who saw it with me did not enjoy it as much as i did untill the end. The ending is the most effective ending I have seen for a long time. The ending has such a shocking effect on the audience because it is not expected, my friends now can't wait for the english release because of how effective it was.This film could almost be classed as a new wave hollywood film, due to the shock ending and unusal cross between old and new styles.Allthough most audiences may not like the film to begin with the ending makes it all worth while!!  "},{"Title":"Total garbage","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ** Possible Spoilers **Christ, where to begin... No ending, let's start there.  The movie just simply comes to a halt without resolving how the monster came to be, just what it is, and barely covers why it does what it does.  Or how about why nobody's been noticing this piece of crap truck, which looks like a metallic dump on wheels, driving back and forth between some parts unknown (with fresh supplies of victims) and some ramshackle house in a corn field so it can deposit dead bodies several times a day?  Then, throw in the problem that the film is just simply not scary.  It had potential in the first 10-20 minutes, but after a few good setup scenes, the film really never goes anywhere and fails to build on its initial momentum.  It's like you get this early jump, it flat-lines, and then just goes off the deep end.  The monster itself is fairly ridiculous looking once you see it up close, and looks pretty much like a guy in a really ugly mask with a body suit on.And talk about predictable, Creepers really phones in the horror. For example, the kids convince the cops something is going on, the cops actually believe them - which you know is questionable behavior right there, and follow them out on the road towards the crime scene.  Things are going too smoothly - kids are happy they've got the cops to come check things out, they even start to laugh a little and make a couple jokes on the ride over. Like extras in a Star Trek episode, you just know they're gonna get whacke d right there.Creepers is really not worth your time and totally fails to offer anything original to the horror genre.  I suppose if you're a teen wanting a good make out film, where most of the time is not spent watching the movie, this one might be for you. "},{"Title":"Scary, but a lot of questions left unanswered","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a below average horror movie.  The setting and actors were decent but there were a lot of questions that I had when it was over.  One of them was, what did the title song of the movie have to do with anything?  The two leads are the epitome of dumb horror movie characters.  This is why the Scream series was made, to make fun of these two siblings.  There were many times when they should have ran, but hung around to see what would happen next.  The sister was having shifting problems with her car, but still would stop and take it out of gear when she should have just kept driving their asses home.  Also, there was not a good explanation of what the villain was. Where did he come from?  I can only say that this is a cheesy horror movie. But, give it a try.   "},{"Title":"Horror at it's true best","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was very surprised with how much I really liked Jeepers Creepers when it first came out. I was, at first, expecting another entertaining yet stupid slasher movie with a monster as the slasher, but this was able to capture in the form of the villainous and carnivorous Creeper what most horror movies can never quite catch now true horror.All the film needed was a simple plot, a few no-name actors with a bit of talent (even though the two lead characters can get VERY annoying at times), and a very scary villain to join the ranks of some of the other horror classics, such as Halloween, Carrie, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, and The Exorcist. All I know is that this is a real good film and I can't wait for the upcoming sequel.Also, on director Victor Salva, I know about his past and, while what he did was absolutely horrific, he's admitted he did a bad thing and promised that he'll never do it again and I can forgive him for it. "},{"Title":"Gremlin Thing","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay this was meant to be the scariest film in the last ten years or something, the first twenty minutes was superb, scary and tense, but then we are introduced to gremlin thing, kinda looks like a cheaper version of The Wishmaster, the film is acted okay but nothing special, the idea was taken straight from a classic xfiles episode Eugene Tooms, and the ending was so predictable. This film had the potential to being a scary film, but oh well the Americans know how to let themselves down. Whoppee for the sequel.  "},{"Title":"The heroes should die earlier","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  to end this shame/pain of a movie. The only reason why this film terrified me, was the unbearable stupidity of the two stupid heroesHow can anyone be so silly ?!? *** Warning SPOILERS MAY OCCUR !!! ***- Never act when you are shocked.  - Never run away when you are frightened. - Always freeze. - Never stop to argue. - Try your best to fall into big black holes. - Let your brother fall into big black holes. - Always look back when you are running. - Forget every horror movie that you have seen. - Forget how to drive. - And if you try to, use a broken car. - If you are in a hurry, move in slow motion. - Don't fill up your gas tank. - Don't charge your cellphone's battery. - Don't let your car be fixed. - If you want to phone for help, do not do it. - Let your shocked, unable-to-speak brother phone for help. - Start every cry for help with It sounds crazy, but... - Don't explain yourself. - If you are in trouble, don't search for a solution. Just lean onto  your car. - Don't listen to warnings, ask What's the matter? instead.But the heroes were lucky the bad something was stupid, too.- Show many acrobatic tricks. - If you can only eat once in 23 years, waste your time with sewing. - What is my connection to the famous song Jeepers Creepers ? - Store your food in a public place. - Don't kill your enemies. Only frighten them instead and let them go. - Don't worry, don't think. You don't have to, because you can fly, and nobody can kill you.(So what's the point to watch this movie? Nobody likes the heroes and they deserve to die. And the bad guy cannot be killed, so why watch the heroes battling?) After these notes, I guess that the author of this film was even more stupid than his protagonists.Now I want to go to sleep. And it surely won't be disturbed.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable peace of crap","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Terrible spoilers ahead, I'm gonna give away the ending. This comment may only make sence when you've actually seen the movie*Sure, most of this movie is pure and utter crap. But those who say this is the worst movie they ever saw, I think they didn't really get what's going on here. This is not the scariest US horror-movie of the last 10 years, as apperantly is claimed in the trailers (I never saw those). I think the people who made this film knew this wasn't so. This is all a spoof on the horror genre and I think this was how it was intended to be by the creators. Don't understand what I'm trying to say? Let me explain.This movie follows every rule ever laid out for classic horrorfilms. Two young and attractive kids in a desolate location encounter an unknown force. They don't know what they are dealing with, but one things for sure it's trying to kill them. Than (pay attention, this is important) someone they don't know seems to know them and knows all about the terror that is threatning them. In this case, the black psychic lady doesn't scream `youre doomed!!!', but she might as well have. So far classic horror build up. Now normally, knowing that terror lies in their future, the heroes will try to change their destiny by facing the monster and defeating it. Because someone explained the danger to them, they find a way to defeat it. As the audience of this film, we are led to belief this is gonna happen here. Darry and Trish meet up with the psychic woman, she tells them more of the story and it seems like they now know enough to defeat The Creeper. So still classic horror storyline. And than, just when you think stuff is gonna happen, this movie slaps you in the face! This films suddenly whipes it's ass with the horror-movie rules. The monster isn't defeated. The monster actually gets what it wanted and wins! The reason why most people are not satisfied by this ending, is because they aren't used to it. Freddy and Jason always got conquered in the end, some way or another. The Creeper doesn't. So the joke is on us, that's what makes the ending so surprising. And I think that's what the creators intended, to leave us bitchslapped in our seats. I've read lot's of comments of people saying this has sequal written all over it. If you've seen this film, try to think of what this ending really meens, write your own sequal in your head, so to speak. We've grown TOO accustemed to every single thing being explained. I hate that, I can think for myself.Sure this isn't a really good movie (The actor playing Darry tries to look scared, but most of the time he looks like he's got a carrot up his bum) and there are too many loose ends. But it really doen't suck as much as people are saying here. I think it was intended to be trash and had a sudden surprise-ending that breaks with every single rule they so carefully followed throughout the film. Was Nighmare on Elmstreet really that good? Of course not! But did we like it! HELL YEAH! Sure, most of this movie is crap. But I still enjoyed it.6 outta 10.  "}{"Title":"Great start, bad ending (!!spoilers ahead!!)","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  warning spoilers ahead.I saw Jeepers Creepers yesterday in a sneak preview and i already read some good things about it, not in the least that it draws comparisons with Texas Chain Saw Massacre, not a comparison to be taken lightly, this movie indeed has the same atmosphere fot the first 40 minutes or so, with the lead characters being like people you could actually know or better still, you could see yourself in these persons, it all starts realistically enough, with the two kids driving on a desolate road playing roadgames (didn't we all), then pretty much out of nowhere they're attacked by an old rusty truck and after they get rid of the truck, they move on, later they come across an old church, where they see the old truck and a shadowy man dumping what seems to be a body wrapped in cheets in a vent of sorts. After the truck is gone (it went after them again, but they managed to shake it off) they check out the pipe, where he dumped the body and needless to say one of the kids falls in where he makes some pretty gruesome discoveries.Now this is all fine and dandy, but after this unsettling, but very good and unnerving opening, the movie falls completely flat on it's face, it's not long after this that the creeper (the killer) is revealed and this is the film's one BIG flaw (SPOILER) the killer is not human, but a demon of sorts and all the events that occur after this is revealed are totally ineffective, for instance there comes a bit where he decapitates a cop then picks up the severed head, sniffs it and then proceeds to rip out his tongue with his own teeth. This would be effective if the Creeper were a human, but when a demon or non-human does something like this it's simply nothing special, because all monsters are SUPPOSED to be doing crazy stuff like that, but when it's done by a human then it becomes truly creepy and unnerving.All that follows is done in the same way, coupled by some lame special effects some obligatory characters that are just begging to be killed off. If they had kept the initial atmosphere like in the first half of the movie then it would be worthy of being mentioned alongside of Texas Chain Saw Massacre, but as it stand it's an unfortunate attempt at recreating true terror, which it at first does, but it manages to throw it all away because of the unraveling of the Creeper, it does end on a positive note though, which i will not give away.conclusion it IS worth your time, just be wary that the second half is nowhere near as good as the first, catch it on video or dvd 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"jeepers, creepers, where'd you get that crappy plot?","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is my love of horror movies that forces my comments on this unworthy piece of trash.  It may be, incredibly, the worst horror movie ever made. Like most, I was excited when I began seeing previews that looked like they were showing a good movie, with that enduring song, jeepers creepers ( which, by the way, that dang song has always scared me), but unfortunately, this movie just did not deliver. But it is possible that I'm just too hard on this movie.  After all, I like decent acting, real-looking special effects, and, oh I don't know, plots, and maybe that's just too much to ask.  But I can only tell you that this is the only movie I have ever seriously thought about leaving to see something else.  Indeed, I might have left if not for that fact that some of the people who came with me were taking a little nap because it was so bad. I sat through the entire film, first wondering What's going to happen next?  Then asking, I wonder why it does that?  Why does it do that? Is there a plot?!  Why does it look so crappy?!  Why did I spent six d*** dollars on this crap?!  Can I get my f***ing money back?!  and finally my friend beside me summed up the whole experience. . . This is the worst movie I have ever seen . . . and I watched Waterworld.  "},{"Title":"Cool !","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As an old fan of horror and thriller movies, I can say its a work-of-art. I guess,It would be good with an higher budget, but even now its scary enough. I recorded the director on my own masters lists next to Wes Craven, John Carpenter, Sam Raimi and many others, and will look forward to see new cool productions. Good job, Keep it up ! "},{"Title":"This could've been done a whole lot better...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Possible spoilers herein (not revealing anything literally though)* From just watching the movie I can't say I was all impressed. I'm not saying the movie is REALLY bad or anything. It's quite OK. The story is acceptable and I liked the mysteries lurking within it. The movie starts of really good but then gives me the duh... I've seen this before kind of feeling, which often isn't too great. Some details in this movie are great, not revealing these though ) A couple of things bugged me though, such as stupidity in movies... I mean, why do people ALWAYS, and man do I mean always, have to stand still and watch as the immortal all-mighty mega monster stand right in front of them slaying everything in sight. And not run!? Man would I make like the roadrunner and run....*meep meep* Jeepers Creepers is from time to time a brilliant movie and the CGI is whopping, although the make-up sometimes looks kind of cheesy.Anyways, I liked the ending, it was very unexpected and really plows the way for the sequel... ^_^  rated > 4/10 "},{"Title":"Trashy,but somewhat frightening","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Looking at the poster of Jeepers creepers,one of the critics informed me that it would be the most scary movie in the last ten years (still thats what they did say about The Blair witch project).In that compartment,I was dissapointed,but what did catch my eye was the concept of the film,a film that did not fail to scare.I was sitting at the front of the cinema and I didn't know what to expect from the film.If you watch this movie at the cinema or the local odeon,I strongly suggest you sit at the front row for jump out of your seat thrills.The stories sypnosis is about a brother and sister driving back to yheir parents house for a holiday from college.Out in the middle of nowhere,they notice someone dumping bodies down an open pipe from the back of a truck outside an abandoned church.The truck drives after them trying to ram them both off the road.The pair of them escape and stupidly go back to the church to take a look.When the brother drops down the pipe,he discovers nude mutilated corpses that have been cut open and stiched back up.It turns out the bottom of the pipe is the churcs basement.When they go to find help at a local resturant,they recieve a telephone call off a psychic woman who tries to warn them.They later are to discover that the killer in the truck is some inhuman cannibal who pursues the both of them throughout the whole film.I would give Jeepers creepers a 4 out of 5.Whoever walks intio that movie expecting the scariest film in the past ten years will be dissapointed,the script is poor,but the movie itself doesn't fail in delivering pure shocks. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers, Where'd you get this script?!?","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hoping to see scary movie, I paid $3.00 at my local theatre and really only got about $.50 worth of story back.  This film started off promising, but quickly began to go way, way downhill.  It was a shame to see the cast wade their way through a script full of cliche situations and dialogue.  I only hope that they make better choices in the future. I'm almost speechless about how bad this movie was.  I'll end it at that.  "},{"Title":"scary...","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i was on the way to see this in the cinema expecting it to be very good from seeing previews but i didnt expect it to be one bit scary but i was so! wrong  jeepers creepers has some very original thrills the cast is unknown but suprise you being excellent   from start to finish you'll be on the edge of your seat   it has some similarities to texas chainsaw massacre but jeepers creepers is 100 times better if you havent seen it then see it and then buy it cant wait till it comes out on dvd coz im going to buy 100 copies "},{"Title":"Very Scary movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is one of the scariet movies one has seen in the theater since Pitch Black. The film reminded of Spilberg first film Duel. The script is fast paced and the acting it top notch from the young cast. I can't wait for this film to come out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Watch it Twice","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Is this the Halloween of this decade, I think this could be a launch pad for a very beautiful and talented actress Gina Phillips she may already be on this path but this first time I have seen her perform.This film is irritating there are so many interesting things going on that never the less culminate in a movie that is in the end unsatisfactory,the cast are good(especially the brother and sister)the setting is good,the humour and dialogue are pacey and witty but all this  is not enough to make it satisfactory, I watched it twice after not expecting the abrupt ending thinking I've missed something here,but not enough is explained and Sequel is written all over it.Francis Ford Coppola's company produced it that's why I watched it again, I'm still not convinced I haven't missed something, this is not your average slash em up horror movie it has a bit more to it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Disapproving but balanced","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a film that could have been and perhaps should have been great. It was hyped as the best US horror movie in ten years and was plugged as being original and frightening. It had the advantage of having the great name of Francis Ford penned above the title and I found myself settling down in the cinema to what I hoped would be an interesting and innovative piece of film.The first half of the movie is good and, in it's own Texas Chainsaw Massacreish way, scary. An original plot line seems to be developing in a stylish way and the young actors appear to be puling it off - so to speak - with style. Don't be fooled - it doesn't last and the film soon lapses into bad effects, bad acting, and bad plot lines. It is almost as though the first half of the film and the second are directed and written by two different people. The first half tries to be an original, well though out thriller while the second half simply cops out and enters the realm of trash horror - which there is nothing wrong with provided the the trash is sold as trash. The fact that Jeepers Creepers is sold as The Best US Horror Movie in Ten years is a joke - pure and simple. What about The Sixth Sense, What Lies Beneath, the Scream trilogy? There are countless films that are better than Jeepers Creepers. Check out the Texas Chainsaw Massacre or - if you like monsters -  Nightmare on Elm Street.I would avoid this film. It isn't what it claims to be and as for being frightening - it aint. The Horror Film seems to have made a big comeback in the 90's and the 00's. Unfortunately films like this one - trying to jump on the bandwaggon - is the sad result.  "}{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is close to being the worst movie I've ever seen. Save your money and see something decent. I went to a second run theater and paid .99 to see it and I still feel cheated. I love horror movies but this one is the worst I've ever seen. The best part was when I saw the credits roll at the end. "},{"Title":"NAFFFFF!!!!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow! What a disappointing film. The trailers go on about the scariest American film for ten years and show a shot of an audience jumping in their seats. Well there was one bit which made me jump near the start which was clearly the bit they showed. The film gets one point for that. Then there is the scary lorry chasing them (a la Duel) which was good, one point for that, and that's it!!The film descends into a pathetic story of an inhuman killer (the devil?) and ends on a really low note which is beyond disappointment and boredom. Who says the devil has the best music? On this showing he deffinately doesn't have the best films either! )Watch it just so you can confidently say it's NAFF and slag it off as any other human of even minor self respect will do.  "},{"Title":"Shame Shame Shame","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***SPOLIERS***Everyone's mentioned how the first scenes worked but, for me at least, I think they gave the film an energy which even a few dopey bits in the middle couldn't destroy...I was captivated throughout. The humour diffused some of the tension but it worked (you can't stay THAT scared all the way through). I liked the scenes with the police car was an effective way to show the killer had much greater powers then we'd imagined and I was shocked and a bit dissapointed to find it was a monster...still - I cheered them on as they ran over it...The REAL problems came in the police station - the film played catch up - giving vital bits of information just before the end, cutting out the firefight (which could have been great) and all of a sudden just grinding to a halt...the film just bloody stops and I could see the whole cinema looked confused as I left - we were all asking the same thing was that it?! The ending is not big or clever, just amaturish...The energy built up during the chase is wasted because the heros just get trapped and pretty much give in - Its not that its ends downbeat - its that it ends without a satisfying climax - unforgivable...oh well - there are a few standout scenes but I was saddened becasue it should have been so much better! "},{"Title":"Hmm, the best horror movies for years.. err don't think so","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can I say this film starts of with some potential then just totally loses it's way, by the end I was seriously wondering why I was still there. It's a shame because the truck scenes at the beginning actually worked quite well and it started to look like it was going to be good. Then somewhere along the line it just started to get a bit mindless and lose all the tension, turning to gore instead.Not worth seeing.. "},{"Title":"What spoilt Night of the Demon?","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, seeing the demon! Half a century later and filmmakers have still not learnt this basic lesson.  The first half of Jeepers Creepers is great a spine tinglingly dark piece of modern gothic which nods towards the grisly pleasures of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. So how disappointing it is when the mysterious night stalker is revealed as a very cliched demon and the film degenerates in to a run of the mill chase and hole up in the police station. A good attempt but ultimately deeply flawed "},{"Title":"Half brilliant","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm going to echo the comments of most other people here.  The first half of this film is fantastic - very scary, clever and gripping, with plenty of jumps.  The stuff with the truck is reminiscent of Spielberg's Duel, and the 'psycho version of the Sistine Chapel' is inspired.  But after this excellent beginning, it all goes downhill.  The last half of the movie is awful the monster is laughable, the old psychic woman unbelievable, the twist is limp and doesn't make sense, and the use of the song is ludicrous. I felt robbed.  I wonder if the writer/director planned something different and then the studio said, 'No, we gotta have some gore.  And some dead cops. And how can we have a sequel or merchandising without a monster?'  If the writer did plan it the way it came out, he should be ashamed.  "},{"Title":"Complete trash.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If the second half of the film had been as good as the first, it would have been one of the best films in years. However, it spluttered its way through the remainder, and finished up a very poor effort.The pity is that had the makers made the killer a lunatic killer, or family or killers, it could have been very different. Where did the beast come from? why did he only strike at certain times?. This was notexplained and it did the film no favours.The brother/sister combination was refreshing, as was the use of the old forbidding truck tearing down the remote roads. That truck could have been used more often, and could have been as terrifying a symbol as the 'ghostface' masks of Scream.A total waste of potential. The makers should forget any plans to a sequel. "},{"Title":"This movie COUlD have been so good...possible spoilers","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie could have been awesome...it started out really well. The part where they're cruising along and we see a truck speeding up behind them is downright scary for anyone who's ever been rear ended in traffic--and seen it coming- before. And the part where they drive by and see the villian dumping a body into an old pipe, then see that the killer knows what they saw and is now following them is about the creepiest part of the movie. This movie also utilizes the old deserted highway trick and the redneck hillbilly crowd that offer no comfort to the 2 kids. However, this movie quickly becomes a cliche--the boy insists that they go back to the pipe and see if the person thrown into the pipe is still alive. Well, if this is a serious attempt to scare, it's not excusable anymore, because 80s movies have long since been called on about how stupid that is, and if they were trying to make fun of themselves and the old horror movies, that's been done like a 1000 times over the last 5 years, and it's getting old. But I digress. Anyway, despite the stupid reason they go back (I think the writers could have come up with a better reason to return then the old lets-investigate-a-very-dangerous-situation), when the boy falls into a pipe it is, indeed, very creepy. We see what kind of freak the villian is, he kills people, cuts them up, and sews them back together. This is initially, an extremely good first 30 minutes of film.But, it quickly goes downhill. The writers screwed up royally when they made the killer not a human, but some kind of huge bird that's only allowed to eat every 23 years. That in itself is stupid. Why doesn't anyone make that connection? Why do they all just hang out when it's commom knowledge that this man-bird exists? And why 23 years? It's like the writers just stuck that in there for fun. Anyway, once the audience realizes that it's a BIRD that is the villian, the movie loses its scary value. I happen to think that a psycho human is 1000 times more scary than even the most evil and ugly of monsters or aliens. This movie would have been greatly improved if they had made the killer human, in a Michael Myers sort of way.This movie seems like someone's nightmare after watching a lot of horror movies and eating onion rings and drinking straight shots of vodka for several hours. It wouldn't surprise me if someone had this trippy dream, woke up and wrote it down, then made a movie about it. "},{"Title":"Great beginning but....","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After a very promising start in which a menacing truck (seen only by the viewer at first) appears in the distance behind a young brother and sister heading home on a deserted highway, the film  turns into a fairly routine gorefest. Up until the point where the 'Creeper' appears on top of the police car,there are very hopeful signs that this is a film that will eschew the usual teenflick trappings. Unfortunately from that moment on, it's the usual pyrotechnics, latex made up monster, screeching soundtrack,suspicious locals, even a batty old psychic woman who can see what is in store for everyone in the cast.However in the end it is the lack of any sense that really lets 'Jeepers Creepers' down. Who/What exactly is the 'Creeper'? Where has he come from? Does anyone really care? "},{"Title":"Ultimate Horror","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horrors I have seen in a long time.  It completely breaks away from the popular (especially with the critics) teen slasher movies.  This one follows the model of the old classics like the older Stephen King movies or the Texas Chainsaw Massacre.If you're looking for a good scare, ignore what the movie reviews say and watch this movie.  It is great.  Some people sat that the end is a little bit of a letdown, but I disagree.  This movie's worth every cent. "}{"Title":"Don't pay to see this","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films this year and one of the worst horror films ever! I can't really say how bad it is without giving a few spoilers, and we all know you folks read on even if I tell you not to. So, I won't ruin it for you (in case you actually want to see it), but let's just say, if it wasn't for the overly-loud sound effects, there would be no scares in this film.The visual effects must have been designed by a four-year-old, and as for the dialogue... Maybe we've all become immune to the horror film. A few years ago, this MIGHT have worked. However, today, this is as scary as an episode of the Smurfs. "},{"Title":"A good film ruined","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have to admit after reading mixed reviews on this film I prepared myself for a typical teen slasher, and the innevitable feeling on leaving the cinema of being cheated.However I have to admit I was totally engrossed in the film up until a certain point.  There was plenty of suspense, and the kind of energy that films like the TCM (hence the comparison) were renowned for due to the feeling of unease, building tension and fear of the unknown.But then they revealed the 'evil villain' and the whole atmosphere it worked so hard to create was destroyed in seconds.  I'm not saying the film was ruined, just that it went a bit too Stephen King for my liking!  However I'd give an overall 7/10.  Seen better.....but seen a whole lot worse ! "},{"Title":"Great First Half, Trips Second","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For its first half, Victor Salva does a bang-up job of creating dread and suspense in Jeepers Creepers, the latest entry into the teen-horror genre, the director eschewing the normal genre cliches and gives us a truly uncomfortable and disturbing premise  As two college students (brother and sister, and not boyfriend/girlfriend, for a change) drive home through a rural highway, they encounter a ghastly sight a cloaked person heaving what appears to be dead bodies down a sewer drain.  They investigate, make a truly ghastly discovery and are pursued by a road-raged trucker in sequences that echo The Duel.From the uncovering of the villain, however, Jeepers Creepers becomes quite standard in its course, and thought it offers quite an unseen ending, the rest of the film doesnt measure up to the nail-biting tension of the first half.After establishing a nightmarish premise, introducing smart rather than gullible and dumb main characters, and invoking a gim, menacing killer, the film degenerates into the usual cliches cops who don't believe the main characters, a CGI killer, and a bad screenplay crutch a psychic who knows some mumbo-jumbo lore about the killer.Still, Salva does deliver a disturbing start, Justin Long and Geena Phillips are fun and watchable as the siblings, and though it does fail to deliver an equally effective follow up, it's certainly above the likes of the horror tripe that's infested the horror genre (see Valentine) and recommendable.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Boo!!!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Attention Spoiler AlertThis caught my eye on America's Top Ten Chart only the other day. It was appearing at number three in the chart this week, scaring audiences all over the good ol' USA. First thing that struck me was it's length. It is a short film. Opening with a long shot of the two main characters in their car on the way home from College for the holidays. Now I would never call this film original as it borrows from many movies. I was only two minutes into the first scene before Kurt Russell's troubles with a gang of kidnappers drifted into my mind. I was immediately drawn, however, to the lead characters, both with some snappy, well-written dialogue. Falling down a hole near an abandoned church in an effort to save a dying man would seem to be enough to tip many over the edge. On discovering a cellar full of corpses in various states of dismemberment, our players are then on the run from our bad guy, who has been sniffing around after them, literally. The killer beheads a police officer and then promptly rips his tongue out with his teeth in front of our terrified brother and sister, who are quickly on their way again, knowing that they will be for the high jump, should our killer catch up with them, which inevitably he (or should I say it) does. Finding out that the killer is not human is something of a let-down, not re-inforcing the fear factor of reality. Still, there is a twist in tale. As with Blair Witch, all is not well in the end. A finale that used to spell damnation for a movie in the US is now being viewed as de rigeur. All does not end happily for our male lead, who ends up on a slab, whilst having his eyes removed. The long continued shot of the house in which his screams emanate is mesmeric, as you wait to see his fate. In summary, a far better piece of cinema than I was expecting and one I would have been upset to miss. A uncomfortable blend of the Scream Trilogy and the aforementioned Blair Witch Project. Good, nasty fun.  "},{"Title":"It was very good","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Me and my friends went and saw this at the movies and we were all very surprised. Normally movies that are rated good by critics are crap. This however is great. 2 teenagers driving along a road are caught up by a scary van seriously souped-up. They let the van pass and see the same van on the side of the road, the driver dumping what looks like dead bodies into a pipe. When they investigate the pipe they come across......'SPOILERS'They come across a basement full of bodies stuck to the wall all preserved. Their own urban legend about a girl also happens to be true. Soon the 'Creeper' of the title begins to follow them and try to eat them. The 'Creeper' looks like Caleb from the game 'Blood 2. The chosen''NOT SPOILERS' Anyway, the movie has great music with a haunting theme throughout the whole film and the FX are good too. It is quite gory and the suspense keeps coming along with an interesting storyline. Definitely worth a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever?","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Dont waste your hard earned cash on this one! I went along with a group of friends from work, and when we all walked out we all said the same thing.. a load of complete and utter rubbish.  There is no proper story line, no big film stars, just unknowns.  And scary? hmmm i dont think so.. It was boring! "},{"Title":"Starts off great, then goes downhill.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie a few days ago with one of my closest friends, Jean Murphy (hi Jean if ur reading this!).It started off great, creepy and intriguing - with an interesting brother and sister pairing (as opposed to the usual girlfriend and boyfriend, typical of this genre) sparking some witty and acerbic dialogue.Unfortunately it then goes downhill, descending into a sort of Jurassic Park 4 kiddie horror movie, and it becomes increasingly clear that the plot was solely conceived from a couple of lines from a song. The ending (I won't reveal it here) particularly highlights this.What a shame, because the first forty minutes or so are great . . . if only it could have built on the original concept, rather than yielding to it - and throwing in lots of 'scare scenes' of dark hallways and creatures jumping out and screaming characters in order to disguise lack of plot and substance.Incidentally, there are shades to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and many other classic horror movies throughout. "},{"Title":"Not awful surely?","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Watching Jeepers Creepers I detected bits of Duel, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Birds, Assault on Precinct 13 and Nightmare on Elm Street all very fine movies and all, it must be said, better than this one.Nevertheless Jeepers Creepers manages to sew its borrowings together into a more or less coherent whole and I find it hard to understand why it has caused such a negative reaction among many viewers.  Reasonable acting, a few very creepy scenes (the tunnel, the cat lady). A few holes in the plot maybe but what horror film doesn't have them?In short a welcome return to the 70 and 80 B movie horror pic. "},{"Title":"A good opportunity wasted","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I and my friend attended the screening of this film on the back of reports of it being the 'Scariest movie in 10 years', and because of its production by, amongst others, Francis Ford Coppola.  The first half of the movie did live up to expectations, the unknown truck driver, the pipe by the church, the discoveries underneath.  Also the dialogue of the two principal characters, the brother and sister, was well-worked and realistic. However, the film turned for us at the point when they came upon the Old ladys house to make a phone call whilst being chased by the truck.  The bizarre behaviour of the old woman, and the unveiling of the 'Creeper' was initially shocking, but with the secret of the truck driver let out half way through the movie, it became just another scream-and-run affair.  The continuing mutations of the' Creeper' also left us bewildered as no explaination was given concerning any of its forms.  Most disappointing of all, the suspicious Psychic lady, who had rung them up in the roadside cafe displaying accurate knowledge of their situation, was built up through the film to be a kind of Saviour from the 'Creeper', whereas in fact she had only limited time on-screen, and her character was more comic relief than anything else.  The ending was abrupt, and left to many questions unanswered.  Why did it leave the old woman alive?  She said it smelt what it liked in its victims, yet it seemed to feast quite happily on everyone else who approached it.  We also felt that the finale left too much open, suggesting a plethora of sequels, probably on a Nightmare on Elm Street scale. Nevertheless, initially it was a great horror movie, but we only wished it had stayed the course, and maybe not revealed the 'Creeper' until the very end, if at all.  The fear of the unknown was working much better than the fear of a giant mosquito eating unwily rednecks! "},{"Title":"Where did you get those peepers? (Spoilers)","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Borrowing riffs from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Aliens, Duel, The Twilight Zone and most notably The Hitcher, it's unsurprising that this film has garnered so much attention. (Over 260 IMDB comments already!) As with Blair Witch red hot word of mouth raised the expectations of later viewers, whom were somewhat disappointed to find that it did not live up to the hype.In the early stages it does show great promise, and we do seem to be on the road to something special.  Something to rival Chainsaw Massacre even.  It's the second half of the film, which is basically The Hitcher with a rubber demon borrowed from Buffy, when the film badly loses its way.If this had a 'less is more' second half to match its first, it would have been a classic horror film. Had it been a lot shorter, with a heavily truncated second half, that got to the punchline a lot more quickly, then it would have been the greatest Twilight Zone ever. It is still enjoyable hokum however, and the end punchline is good.Got to go now - Be Eatin'You (Don't worry, that's not the end punchline). "}{"Title":"Entertaining Cheapie!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Im not ashamed to admit it, I was completely entertained for the whole 90 or so minutes of this film.  Yes, it was very cheap looking in parts and the story got a shade this side of silly in the latter half, but it was a damn sight more fun than most horror movies Ive seen in the past decade or so.  Hopefully the success of 'Jeepers Creepers' will hammer the final nail in the coffin of all the 'Scream' style Post-Modern(!) horror flicks that get thrust upon us every year!  "},{"Title":"Scares aplenty...","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this film thinking it would be yet another Scream-If-You Know-What-I-Did-Last-Friday-The-13th clone but was glad to discover it was not. Now I like to think of myself as a mans man. Someone who can kill small spiders and such like. However, this film SCARED me. There, I said it. I literally jumped a number of inches out of my seat when I wasn't sitting on the edge of it. Very frightening stuff! Well the first half was anyway...I felt that the baddy character - a cross between Star Wars' Darth Maul, Hannibal Lector and a bat - was a bit dubious. In my worthless opinion he should have remained as the unseen shadowy figure that he appeared to be. I'm also not too sure why he would listen to a 1930's (or whatever year) recording of the song Jeepers Creepers on an old gramaphone. Nor where he would be able to pick up a copy...That said, I thoroughly enjoyed the film but am still making up my mind about the abrupt conclusion.In a nutshell I would say Scary, original and some excellent dialogue between the main brother and sister characters.A Mr Mad rating of 7.5 loons out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bit unconventional, but worth seeing","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the usual story, kids see someone dump body go to investigate and end up running for their lives for the rest of the film,. However it does have some redeaming features, It's not the usual group of teenies, with the usual 'cannon fodder' bods being sliced and diced during the film, it only has two main characters a brother and sister, which means the film relies heavily on the character development, which works to a point but doesn't quite make the grade, sometimes I didn't really care what happened to the lead characters, but in general the script was good enough.I'm afraid I have to agree with another viewers commentsThe film as a whole, therefore, is a bit of a s**t sandwich. But if you like warm homemade granary bread and don't mind a tasteless filling, then you'll get along with this film fine.It starts of well, building up the tension nicely for about the first hour or so and then looses it big time in the middle, where it muddles along as best it can.The ending is a bit abrupt but for me was the main redeaming feature, definately not run of the mill and well worth seeing, so if the middle bit tempts you to leave 1/2 way through, my only advice would be don't.It's nice to see a director who stands by his convictions and goes with a more unconventional ending.I liked the film even with it's plot holes, ie who or what the hell is this thing, why is it so p****d off, and why is it killing people and with the disappointing bit in the middle, but if you like horror I've definately seen worse.It lacks the humour of Scream and Scary movie, but is definately worth a look. But hey judge for yourselves, this is someone who thought 'Blair Witch' and 'Scary Movie' were both bloody terrible. "},{"Title":"Silly!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From a great start, the film descends into sub-'Twilight Zone' nonsense, and literally loses the plot. It all begins promisingly enough, with some genuinely creepy moments, and a chilling discovery. But then the plot kicks in and we enter realms of silliness not seen since the days of those HP Lovecraft 'inspired' early 90's efforts. When you get a man in a rubber suit you just know it's trash! From then on the whole thing spirals out of control, and just gets sillier and sillier.Like an elongated 'Tales From The Crypt', only worse. "},{"Title":"What the hell happened?!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADThis movie started off brilliantly and had one of the best visuals I've seen in a while (the backround shot of the monster on top of the police car-amazing). But, after the cops are killed the film degenerates into absolute absurdity.They could have just been subtle, and do the Blair Witch tactic of NOT showing the  evil presence, but they had to show this bloody ludicrous thing which ruined the film.The first 45 mins are outstanding, but it's like some other schmuck wrote the second half. The police station scene was stupid, while the wings sprouting out of the head (like the Dilophasaurus from JP1) was ridiculous. Leave, contented, after the cops are killed- you won't miss much after.Out of 10, I give it 5 (for the first half). Still, it's way better than A.I.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointed.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  About the scariest aspect of this film is that it is advertised in the UK as the most frightening US film in the last 10 years.  After a good and scary start I soon found myself having to try and not laugh as events got more and more silly.Some of the dialogue is very entertaining but then the next minute it hits you with a line that may well have been taken from an episode of Scooby Doo. As for the special effects, again they started off well but then seemed to have suffered from over confidence as the budget was stretched to its limits. Movies can be scary without big budgets if the filmmakers utilise what they have to the full. After all, sometimes the bits that frighten you the most are the ones off camera. Instead what we are treated to here is more and more effects and make-up which has a contrasting affect on its ability to frighten you.Credit though to the the two leads who carried the movie well. If it wasn't for their performances I may not have lasted till the end of the movie and I'm sure we will see more from them in the future.Rent it on video. "},{"Title":"Quite humorous","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say this film really was humorous. It seemed like a mixture of I know what you did last summer, funny scare-films from the 60ties and The Cell. Just a very bad mixture, of course.A classic roadmovie where young teenagers accidentally gets into trouble and changes their relationship to each other and their lifes get changed forever. And in a good story, at least one of these dies. They were two - so one left the good company.The Cell was marvelous with giving us an image of how a twisted mind thinks and in some way brought the idea of making humans into dolls by artificial precervation to a mass-audience. Because the babe Jennifer Lopez was in it(and spoiled most of the movie with trying to cover bad acting up with loads of makeup even when in bed late at night.) Here they try to do the same. Just not succeeding as well.I started laughing in the cinematheatre when the monster/bad guy/Captein Nemo/Ugly seamonster jumped up on the policecar and we saw his coat flow behind him while they were driving. Batman returns! Conan as well! Hurray! And noooo, we did NOT expect him to kill the policepeople then! This was a surprise!But the most funny part was when he went out of the human(can be discussed) body and we saw him as a seamonster. Awwww, wasn't that *cute*? Just like in the old horrormovies from the 60ties! Nevermind we're in the 00's now! Who cares? I'm sure he scared someone. Like the underage teenagers at the backrow!Oh well. Some people actually liked the film, or so I've heard. I just won't recommend it at all as a horrormovie. Perhaps as a comedy. I had a laugh! ) "},{"Title":"Where'd ya get those peepers?","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was exceeding bored one Friday night, so I decided that a trip to the cinema might be in order.  When my friends and I tried to decide what to go see, we all thought that Jeepers Creepers might be a fairly good choice. So we went to see it - and we were not disappointed.From the opening, the tension of this film never lets up.  The demon is quite scary, but what is scarier is his truck, and the noise that horn makes, it's the sort of noise that can make your blood run cold.  Justin Long (Galaxy Quest) and Gina Phillips (Ally McBeal, Boston Public) do a good job of conveying the terror of the two college sibling driving home for spring break being hunted by a psycho for no apparent reason, although the reason becomes clear later on in the movie.While the film started off very well, I thought that the second half quickly became ludicrous, although the explanation of the demon's motivations does actually make sense, i quote 'once every 23 years, for 23 days it can feed'.Definitely go and see this if you are tired of run of the mill slasher flicks, and (sometimes) want the crap scared out of you, and trust me, it'll be the truck that scares you most. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable horror romp","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Everything looks promising no star studded cast, a relatively unknown director with a scorched past and Francis Ford Coppola (he of Godfather fame) as executive producer.Expectations for something original are not unfounded. And it doesn't fare too badly at the beginning, introducing two siblings who come across a potential murder case in a downbeat town. Further investigation leads to chaos as the two leads battle an unstoppable menace.Residing comfortably in the 'B movie' status field, the film comes with an unfinished look about it and this is where moviegoers will find themselves divided. Baulking at the plot loopholes combined with a sudden ending will result in dissatisfaction. But follow it through and one will find an enjoyable horror romp.It's not a classic, by any means, but then it never sets out to be. Perfectly viewable, it'll do nicely to tide things over until 'The Others' comes along. "},{"Title":"I was really 'p***ed off' when I left the cinema!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After a busy week of lectures I invited a friend to go see the movie  the Odeon in Leeds.  I paid £4.90 (forgot to show my student card) and my friend paid £3.50.The movie in essence is based around 3 scenes. 1) They see the thing dumping bodies down a pipe and they investigate 2) they go to a diner 3) they go to a police station.The question posed in the trailer, What's Eating You is never answered. The creature that looks like some alien/organic 'out of this world' life form is never justified.  Where did it come from etc...Why on earth would people even want to show this at the cinema.  Yes I was foolish, but every one I met enjoyed it.  I take my movies seriously.  if You want a good time watch American Pie 2, Bandits, Tomcats (bit old)...Do not ever waste your money on Jeepers Creepers...the HOAX!! I mean Scary Movie 1/2 are way better....Michael "}{"Title":"Good intelligent horror, up to a point.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeeps Creeps was a rare case where I got more than I bargained for.  I have seen so many contemporary 'horror' films full of teenagers I cannot relate to getting systematically bumped off, only to find the twist ending has less twist than a slice of lemon.The first hour or so finds only two teenagers, a brother and sister, (so no cliched nookie here, chaps!) on the road.  This part of the movie is the most tense and knocks the spots off Speilberg's Duel and virtually anything Carpenter has done.  One particular sequence is Hitchcock to a T.  And I found myself on the edge of my seat, a rare thing indeed!Being only two protagonists for so long, the film had to rely on a good script and character development.  This it delivers.  The brother and sister team are very good indeed and reminded me of the good character driven movies of yore.However, when we meet the woe of their concerns, it's Hello Buffy time. But there is just enough to keep serious horror film affictionado interested, with some good direction and ensemble acting.The ending is very brave and a fitting tribute to the excellent beginning.The film as a whole, therefore, is a bit of a s**t sandwich.  But if you like warm homemade granary bread and don't mind a tasteless filling, then you'll get along with this film fine.  I did.  "},{"Title":"Have you ever thought Res Evil 2-now there would be a movie?","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To be honest I went into the cinema thinking I was going to see Joy Ride.Thus I didn't expect all that much from this film.I went in not knowing the synopsis, which I think may have coloured my judgement ( in favour of rather than against the movie). I felt that the start of the movie was reasonably well written and played, you do get a little of an insight into the characters.However, as soon as the action commences, the plot starts to deteriorate.My main probems with the film are The movie really shoots its bolt too early- the only scary moments are right at the start with the unknown at the end of the tunnel and the foot grabbing,followed by the aliens-esque House of Pain(perleezzz!)To be honest, the bad guy is less scary than, and seemed a bit derivative of, the Wishmaster in the eponymously titled D movie.The Police Station Act- had one of the scriptwriters played Resident Evil 2 by any chance? The demon bursting from the other side of the interview room mirror was just so Capcom that I hope they sue!!Rusty Lee was a bit of a light comic relief(sorry to non UK readers wo don't get this ref).The ending could have been better but I wasn't wholly disappointed - at least everything wasn't OK in the end...And let it not pass utterly gash name for a movie. Overall I'd say wait for the DVD.  "},{"Title":"Not as scary as its declining genre!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The whole horror genre has had the scary-rug pulled out from under it by the seemingly endless exposure of TV 'kiddy' horror, such as 'Buffy' and 'Angel'.We now live in a world where children can see a man graphically bitten in half by a realistic-looking Tyranosaurus Rex (Jurrasic Park. Cert. 12) and still carry on eating their popcorn without missing a single crunch!What chance then, has a good, old-fashioned monster movie like 'Jeepers Creepers? - Probably not a lot. Personally, I love 'real' monsters such as Alien and Predator (And yes... this!) They collectively knock scales off all the new-fangled CGI efforts (Jurrasic Park excluded) or the tiresome stalk and slash teen-fodder that's cynically churned out by the Studios these days.For this reason, I'm going to give it 8/10. - Although I may not be so generous when the inevitable 'Jeepers Creepers 2' comes out! "},{"Title":"good ol' fashioned horror","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  a welcome break from monotony of teen slasher horror, but suffers slightly from lifting some of it's best scenes from other classic thrillers (duel, assault on precinct 13). the use of non-cgi effects is particularly refreshing, especially it's unashamedly old fashioned baddie. the cinematography is also great, plus good use of long uneasy cuts, and for once the two lead characters actually have a life outside them being chased around the whole film.  "},{"Title":"promising ......but....","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a movie that starts out so well but finishes poorly - Disappointing overall as the first 1/2 is nicely built up with plenty of tension and the odd moment to make you jump.But then it goes all weird and introduces a couple of crap characters and becomes a 'run around scared' movie. Boring 2nd 1/2 and cliched ended.Verdict Wait for the Video ! "},{"Title":"The only scary thing is that it got made in the first place.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can I say? This was billed as the best horror film in years, etc etc, so I had high expectations. High expectations that were shattered about half through.The first half did a good job of building tension, and the potential for a decent horror flick was there. But then it all went wrong. Horribly.The key thing with horror films is that they have to be scary. This one is not. At all. Not one of the shocks made me jump, mainly because you could see them coming a mile off. In the UK, this film is rated 15, so you have to be 15 or over to watch it - I'd be interested to know how old the people are who loved this movie, cos I can't see anyone over the age of 21 finding it either scary or good.This film is awful. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"What exactly is wrong with this movie?!!!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's hard to believe that this film has received such a low user rating on the IMDB.  Even the diabolically awful Scream 3 received a higher mark.  Have audiences really been reduced to this?Maybe the world just wasn't ready for a clever, genuinely scary, tense and sophisticated teen horror movie.  But there's still no excuse, really. I'm a massive fan of the horror genre, so I welcome any new horror movie that dares to be different.  Jeepers Creepers starts creepy and ends creepier.  Although it starts to sag slightly in the middle (a plot thread involving a psychic is so thin you could hang hairs on it), there's enough tension and humour to more than make up for it.  It isn't the best horror movie of the last ten years.  That would be Ginger Snaps.  But it certainly comes close.  The acting is amazing, the beginning (which pays homage to Stephen Speilberg's 'Duel') superb, and if the monster is a little hard to believe (it looks a bit like an overgrown fish), the scenes it is in still drip with fear.  I urge any horror fans not to miss out on this film.  It's a welcome addition to the genre.     "},{"Title":"If your looking for a great horror film then.....","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I Highly suggest you don't go and see this film. I fell for the great trailer to this film and boy was I ripped off. First the film had a bad ending and it was really short. It left alot of questions in the air not good questions like X-file or twilight zone types but really dumb ones. The actors were fine it was really just the script. I guess in all I've seen better horror films on Nick at nite. "},{"Title":"Starts great but doesnt keep it up.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  An effective horror effort where the film starts out excellent with truly creepy moments as a brother and sister discover some odd doings in the middle of nowhere.. but the ending gets preposterous as they keep doing stupid things that have the audience screaming at the screen. If only it kept up the brilliance of the opening. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Scary, Stylish and Suprising!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to the Cinema to see this being told led up to this movie by friends that it was a waste of time, lucky for me that i don't listen to my friends when it comes to there opinions on films!The Story follows Trish (Gina Philips) and Darry (Justin Long) who are on there way to see their parents when there journey is ubrupted all of a sudden by a Large Truck which hauls them off the road.  They continue on only to come pass an old church and find a suspicious figure throwing bloodied sheets down a huge rusty pipe.The first 45 minutes of this movie is very obsorbing and the director obviously was very keen to produce background to the 2 main characters in full detail.  The scene where the 2 decide to investigate the pipe was excellent and very disturbing.  I'm glad this film didnt turn into a typical teen slasher horror and become predictable.  Instead it was a much needed horror movie to rival any other in its genre.  This was achieved through its incredibly dark atmosphere, nearly the whole film was done in the dark, this made the movie so much more tense and sucked in the audience to its next chapter.Theres a lot of mixed opinions about the ending, I for one am still a bit cheated by it, but it doesnt take anything away from the film itself. I gave this film a 9 because i love the horror genre and it was a clever, suprising flick! "}{"Title":"Dont waste your money!! please","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There I was sitting in the cinema ready to be terrified. I had high expectations, Francis Ford Coppola's name being attatched to the film added to my anticipation. On every trailer the scariest film to come from the US in ten years was flashed on the screen. So there I was, twenty minutes into the film, (I wasnt scared yet but it left me wanting more) such a positive start and so many possibilities and avenues to explore. It could have been such a great film..........but........come 40 minutes I was bored so bored, I dont think I have looked at my watch so many times during a film. I think the boredom set in as soon as the killer was identified as a scaly, human eating, winged monster, not quite what I imagined. In my opinion what makes a scary movie scary is that it is completely believable, and that you go home wide eyed, checking round every corner, scared to go to the toilet yourself...you know what I mean.Look if you really want to see it then go see it but dont say I didnt warn you! )  "},{"Title":"A good start, but lacks the stamina for a good finish.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I great idea for a film. that made me jump several times, but also had me screaming at the characters for being such horror film clichés.but i was getting into it good and proper.and then...........oh, what was that?  did it end?  where's the rest of the film?was there some sort of catastrophe on the cutting room floor that nobody noticed?OK Victor Salva, where's the rest of it?  It's fine to be all arty and to try and do something different and turn your back on convention, but not at the expense of a potentially good film.you could have really been remembered for this one, but alas i think not. you can't keep audiences at the edge of their seats and then....well go and watch it.  but be prepared to go and get half of your money back afterwards. "},{"Title":"Has its moments but very derivative","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie because it has received some very positive reviews. But, having seen it, I don't know why. It's pretty much your standard horror fair. And very un-original. In fact I had more fun on the way home discussing the movies that it borrowed from. They're all there - The Birds, Psycho, Alien, Silence of the Lambs, Halloween - but this film has none of the polish of any of those classics.Why does every contemporary horror movie have to have teenage attitude? There's an evil monster on the loose (and hundreds of dead bodies around) but our sassy heroine (Trish) still smart-mouths the locals. I finished up praying that the monster would catch Trish and suck her brains out - in slow motion.This movie is not a bad way to pass a Saturday night with your partner (it has a few scary moments). Just don't expect much. I gave it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not a Scary Movie","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie with reasonably high hopes.  The trailer looked good, and gave nothing away, which for me, is always a good reason to watch a movie.I was very disappointed.  Whilst the film manages to build up a palpable amount of tension in the first thirty minutes, it just descends into comedy after that.As a Buffy fan, I can honestly say I've seen scarier stuff in that show than I observed in this movie.  The two lead characters make all the basic horror movie mistakes, and the plot is entirely predictable.  The big licence plate mystery is totally transparent, and the film just fell apart the further it continued.I went to see this film on the opening night in the UK, and I can honestly say that if the cinema wasn't crowded, or if I wasn't in the middle of a row, I would have walked out after 45 minutes.  It was that poor.  Don't waste your money on this.I've been more scared during a Disney film... "},{"Title":"Quite an original horror movie.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"                 ******May Contain Minor Spoilers******I and many other people out there were a little hesitant about going to see Jeepers Creepers. Not because the movie the looked bad, (It looked great.) but because of some of the horrific things I've heard about the director/writer Victor Salva. I tried to put that aside and went to see Jeepers Creepers and I did in fact enjoy the movie very much.Jeepers Creepers is about Trish and Darry, two young college students who are brother and sister going home to visit there parents. On the way though they across a 'man' all covered up in strange clothes and a big hat who tries run them over. After they manage to get away from this strange man, they see him dumping, what looks like bodies, down a drain pipe. After he leaves they decide to investigate and see what the man really put down there. But, the things they discover are more terrible, then they could ever of imagined. Not knowing what to do, they end up calling the police who don't really believe them at first. They them get help from a strange physic woman who lives in the town they're in. She seems to know what's been happening and what will happen next. This leaves Trish and Darry realising that the thing that's after them is not human, but a demon who's known as the 'Creeper' who likes to eat people to keep him alive and he wants one of either Trish or Darry as one of them has something it likes. I couldn't believe what happened in the finale. Very strange and very creepy.Gina Philips and Justin Long play the lead roles here of Trish and Darry and even though they don't give the most amazing performances they do a good job anyway and you get used to them along the way.Jeepers Creepers is one of the most different and exciting horror movies to come out in a long time. It's a proper horror movie, not a thriller or drama or serial killer type movie but a HORROR movie and I love that genre. The directing was a little dodgy here and you can see it's low budget but hey not every film has to have millions of pounds spent on it. I didn't think Jeepers Creepers was scary AT ALL, but I guess some parts were a little creepy. Anyway, I give Jeepers Creepers an 8-9/10. "},{"Title":"Scariest HALF of movie I've seen in quite a while","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  WARNING Possible SPOILERS ahead!!! (Just in case)The first half of this film is intense. My wife hasn't clung to me this hard since I showed her Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Advice to everyone Stay for as long as it takes for the cops to get killed. After that, leave the theater. Sure, the scene with the Creeper squished in the road and that wing popping out and flapping against the ground is cool, but the scenes leading up to it are not. The psychic is totally useless and could've been left out completely.I loved HALF of this movie. "},{"Title":"RUN!!!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is your basic horror flick.  A guy and a girl run from a bad guy, but this is not just any bad guy. As you soon see.  See it with a theater full of people.  You won't feel as silly screaming when you realize everyone else did too.   "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This may not b on my top 10 fav. Horror movie list, but I still enjoyed this movie. I was glad that no lousy & easily fake-looking CGI was used, if any was used, it didnt look fake. The Creeper seems like the new Horror icon now, & is played well by J. Breck.  The brother & sister do a good job with what is given 2 them. They do a good job acting & the gore was cool. The roadkill moment may b the best scene(s) in the movie. I'm sure a sequel will b made cause of the end, but it better not suck. This is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"this movie is awesome!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie was the BEST. it was suspenseful, exciting, and very scary. the actors justin long and gina phillips did a great job. this is one of the best movies of the year. for all reading this who havent seen it, i recommend you do. "},{"Title":"Frightening and restlessing","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you think this movie is one of that dumb slasher pic, you are wrong. The boogeyman is the most scarier thing I ever saw, inside and outside. The plot is full of symbol and you need a deep watching to understanding the meaning of that restlessing symbol. I must say, this movie is really are a heavy movies. So if you like to scared by watching a horror movies, you are make mistake by watching this.....7/10 "}{"Title":"Nearly new","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I tried hard to really like this film, but in the end gave up.  Up untill about half way, the story seemed original, because it was a horror/road movie, but as I ventured on to half way through the film I just couldn't believe my eyes.  The two main characters that had interested me up untill this point were now fading away.  Each scene beyond half way was tacky and pointless to say the least.  The hint of creepyness or scare had gone and was replaced by what I can only describe as cheesy.  I don't want to go into detail just in case you are going to watch it, but by the end of the film I felt cheated.  What started out as a new found horror movie became the same old tacky film with the worst ending since 'Planet of the  Apes'. "},{"Title":"I want my money back","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of worst moive of 2001 I have seen. Actully the first half of the movie is OK, it has several scary scenes.  And the movie does a lot of set up mystories in the first 30minutes, such as the underground cave scene... But the second half of the movie didn't explain anything. It becomes a short story collection.  It seems each part of the movie are not connected at all, some characters are there for no reason.  It jumps from one part to another, and it makes no sense what so ever.  The worst part is that it didn't solve any of the riddles it leaves to us in the first half of the movie.This movie is such a joke, poorly constructed.  3/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers has a first hour that rivals, oh, i dunno, pick a good horror movie.  Then, about the time we see the Creeper gnawing the tongue out of some guy's head, it starts to fall apart.  The addition of a psychic wasn't helpful; it became a plot thread that never weaved completely in to the story; it seemed artificial and obvious.  The two main characters come off as capable, and deserve to be in a better movie than this.  The ending was abrupt and disappointing.There are a few bright spots in this clunker, and they earned a better film then this.**1/2 out of 4; some good spots in a dismal film "},{"Title":"Worst ending in years","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie itself was not horrible, but the ending was pathetic.  The plot line was full of holes, but this is typical of the genre.  The special effects were minimal.  However, the movie did not really have an ending, per se, but simply ended. "},{"Title":"Biggest pile of sh** i have ever seen","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I started watching this film in high hopes, didn't know what to expect at all and for the first 30 minutes it builds up the tension, albeit extremely slowly.Then the film kicks into overdrive and for most films this is a good thing.... but not with this film.It is the most pathetic, useless, nonsensical waste of bum-ache i have ever had the misfortune to watch, not since Crocodile Dundee in LA have i disliked a film so much.It stank worse than a toilet the morning after a heavy beer drinking/curry session.  The acting was diabolical, the bad guy tries to be a Freddy/Jason/Michael Myers but ends up being less scary than Kermit the Frog. The main stars don't run when they're supposed to (No, hang on, i want to see if he's really dead...!!! DUUUUHHHH!!!).I would only recommend this movie to people who thought films like Tomb Raider and Eraser were 'really good movies coz there's tons of explosions in it'.Avoid this film like you would Lorena Bobbet with a large Hatchet.I warn you! "},{"Title":"entertaining, scary and dark","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw Jeepers Creepers I went in with high expectations and I wasn't disappointed. I really enjoyed this film. From the moment it starts with our two main characters driving down the road on the way home I was hooked in. Then moments later when you see the creepy truck come up behind them it sent chills down my spine. The action is good the mood is just right and the monster is very scary looking. Overall, I thought it was a good scare and a good time spent. The ending will shock you. It is very unexpected. "},{"Title":"Cliche, predictable","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Though I had high hopes for this movie, it turned out to be little more than a series of poorly presented cliches, predictable from start to finish. The actors are unappealing, the acting second rate and the characters are shallow. The soundtrack volume level increased so much at every shock point that I was not able to enjoy them. Dialog infers some kind of communication between the characters in a good movie - not so this one. If you must see this film, please wait for video or second run theater because it is not worth full admission It is a classic dud. "},{"Title":"I demand the 1 and 1/2 hours of my life I spent watching this sh** back!!!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  How did a movie this bad get made?  Did anyone watch it after they were done filming or did they film the movie in order so they didn't have to worry about editing?  I wanted to slap both of our heros until they realized that the only way to aviod being killed by a bewinged beast is to RUN AWAY.  There were so many scenes of these two retards gawking at the Creeper that it went way beyond stupid.  I wanted these kids to die!  Was that what the director was going for, so when he had his SPOILER suprise ending no one would feel bad?  To call this movie cliche would be an insult to the word.  Case in point the old lady who kept saying have you seen the cats yet.  Why didn't she just lay out everything she knew so the kids didn't have to play a guessing game to find out what the hell she was talking about?!  In summary Plan 9 From Outer Space is a better movie.  Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Fantastic opening but...","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ... Things go a little downhill in this pleasant monster movie. Stylishdirection and fairly decent dialogue keep it from getting preposterous(until the denoument, of course -- but that's par for the genre).Still, appealing leads and a fantaqstic opening carry this thing home.Genre fans should well advised to steer away from spoiler reviews. Thisis mostly style over substance, and the very few plot twists shouldn'tbe revealed. A 7 out o "},{"Title":"A T for Effort","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one gets a T for effort  It TRIED.  It tried to be different from the recent wave of ridiculous teen horror movies.  It tried to recreate the unseen menace of many '70s horror movies.  It tried to compensate for the awful acting with its unusually effective direction (especially in the beginning sequences).  Perhaps Francis Ford Coppola's involvement in this movie raised it a few notches above tripe like I Know What You Did Last Summer or Urban Legend. The first hour is definitely more interesting than the second, when the bad acting and ridiculous plot twists take over.  Also, why did they turn that evil being into a gargoyle?   "}{"Title":"It was cool... kind of, at least (CONTAINS SPOILERS)","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  AGAIN, THIS CONTAINS A VERY BIG SPOILERWell, as said by countless others before me, the first half or so of the movie delivers the creeps. It´s suspenseful, and it´s nice to see that the character react like someone WOULD react if he had just been driven off the road or seen a room full of corpses. Those who said that the characters act childish and don´t behave like normal teenagers - you obviously don´t have siblings.Unfortunately, as soon as the police station part is reached, it all goes downhill, and the movie becomes a slashfest. Kind of like Ghosts of Mars, if you have seen that one.The ending. Well, I personally hated it, but I hate Stephen King´s books too. Especially since the movie was short, they could have easily included a part that leads to a happy, or at least semi-happy ending. I heard before watching it that it was different, and I thought it would probably end with one of the characters loosing an organ, like a kidney or something. If they had gone with something like that, it would have been okay, and it wouldn´t have been something you could call a happy ending, either. But as it is, it just seems pointless to watch the characters run away for the whole movie only to loose in the end. If you feel different, you probably won´t have problems with this movie. And one other thing - I really wonder why lots of people here are bashing Scream in their reviews. Sure, all the movies that came AFTER Scream, the sequels of Scream included, sucked. But Scream itself was brilliant, though it wasn´t really horror... more like a horror comedy.  "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time and money.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You will never get back the time you spend watching this derivitive, dull non-thriller.  After a barely endurable marathon opening where we meet the main characters and inspect all the drek of their lives, the movie could have taken off and salvaged itself.  Alas, although it longs to soar, it flops around on the ground like a broken-winged pigeon.  The blatant attempt to create a new Freddy, Leatherface, et al is empty and sad.  The beastie/killer when finally revealed in all of it's glory is both nonsensical and banal.  Go rent a real good horror movie instead of supporting this garbage. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly scary little flick","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay so I admit, I am a movie addict.  My family is seriously thinking of holding and intervention for me.  So I see every movie that comes out, what's so wrong with that?  Everyone needs a hobby ... right?  Okay well the point that I am trying to make is that I've seen so many movies that I really thought I was desensitized to movie scariness.  I thought nothing could scare me anymore.  I was wrong.  Jeepers Creepers actually had me closing my eyes in scenes.  I haven't done that since I was six years old! Jeepers Creepers starts out innocently enough.  Darry (Justin Long) and his sister Trish (Gina Philips) are driving home from college for spring break. They are terrorized on the road by a big, nasty old truck it eventually passes them by and they continue the trek home.  They later see the same truck parked outside an old church and its driver dumping what appear to be bloody bodies down a pipe in the yard.  They of course have to investigate and the real scariness begins.  Now I'm not going to give away anymore than that because I don't want to ruin any of the scares for you.  Up to this point I was counting and timing the scares.  'There was the fake scare... now here comes the real one in 3...2...1, right on schedule, next please', It was all pretty routine.  It wasn't long though until I realized that I wa s actually a little scared.  It all snowballed from there.  Before I knew it I was actually looking away from the screen, considering going for a refill on my drink and asking myself if I really liked being scared by a movie after all, why didn't I pick a harmless little comedy to see?  The thing was that it wasn't like most movies where the scares pop up every now and then, it had this pervading sense of dread.  I was tense and even afraid for a good 45 minutes.  Things got a little less scary towards the end but still...it was almost a relief. Now don't get me wrong this is obviously not an academy award winning movie, but it was very effective.  The acting is solid, the dialogue descent and the effects pull things off.  What I really liked about Jeepers Creepers was that it did what it set out to do, scare the pants off me.  I also have to give kudos to the script for not falling completely into horror movie routine and sticking to it's guns on some rarely seen plot points.  You'll know them when you see them.  It was also nice to see the leads as a brother sister team, you don't see that so much, it kept the story from falling into the tired and useless sexual tension or flat out sex scenes.  I'm going to go off on a tangent here for just a second so bear with me.  What is it with moviemakers thinking that every movie needs to have a sex scene.  Does every human activity really lead to sex?  'We are being chased by a man / monster who wants nothing more than to kill us, lets stop off at this motel for a quick s**g and then be on our way'.  Honestly, it's useless.  Okay sorry about that, back to Jeepers Creepers, which had no sex if you were wondering.  So to wrap things up, if you want to be scared, go see this movie, it'll be worth your money.  I'll never be able to hear the song Jeepers Creepers again (not that I heard it much before this movie but you get the idea) without a little chill running up my spine. "},{"Title":"This was a horrificly SLOW build-up to a ridiculous ending.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie on a whim, from the previews I'd seen it appeared to be your average B flic; gore, horror, thriller, sexy, no really KNOWN actors in the movie; sort of rolled into one.  Though hopefully with some thought added into the pot.  It started off SLOWLY, then runs you into a somewhat harrowing tale of suspense and thrill.  It builds up quite well actually and then adds a few more cliched sort of content in....namely the psychic lady. And finally when you say to yourself, My god are they going to kill the monster, die, or is this movie EVER GOING TO END,  it flies into this super-climactic scene, at the end.  And then, after all this time, all this build-up, all the horrible admonitions from the afore mentioned lady, you get this ending that made the whole theater literally  say; WHAT THE HELL!!!!  I've heard people say that this ending was inciteful and awsome, no the ending to Sixth Sense was amazing, this is a rancid peice of dung.  A let down in the end, though an ample opportunity to take your signifigant other to a flic and make out the whole time....I give this movie a 4, and that's being kind. "},{"Title":"I like surprises.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's great to be surprised and this movie was a very big surprise for me.  It was very hesitant on seeing this movie what it was in theatre becaue I heard through the grape vine that it was a horrible movie.  Now that I've seen it (and I'm very happy that I went to the theatre TO see it) I have to say that it is far from horrible...and probably one of the best horror flicks I've seen in a while.I really enjoyed the characters that existed in the movie, and the fact that there wasn't a whole lot of them really was a bonus too.  It's great that the two leads were a brother/sister duo instead of two sex crazed teens in love.  You never see anything but that... ever... until now.  The bad guy was a great new creation as well.  Something original.. something new... something fun.  I didn't however like the Psychic woman because I thought that bit of the storyline was too contrived... but necessary for the progression of the movie maybe.The movie itself had great use of sound instead of visuals.  Yes it did have some gore... but not all that much because like I said.. it was the sounds that made this movie what it was.The ending was brilliant.  Simple as that.  It's an ending that you just dont' see in any horror movie, ever.  It's an ending that I've been waiting to see for a long time.  Because let's face it.  The traditional movie plots that we're all used to seeing just isn't real.  This movies ending was.  And it was fabulous. "},{"Title":"Hmm..","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Just got home from seeing Jeepers Creepers. I have mixed reviews. If you are looking for a classic movie with brains and reality, this isn't it. The first half of the movie is great. It flows nicely and makes sense. I'm not sure when it happens, but it does, and the movie just seems to drag on and not make that much sense anymore. Knowing the mystery man's identity, first of all, is a let down. The movie is better when you are just left wondering. The ending is kind of abrupt and you just sit there for a little trying to digest. The performances are good and it is scary. It's just frustrating because it had potential to be great.  "},{"Title":"Don't mistake this for a teen-slasher flick","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was completely taken aback by this film, expecting the usual teen junk that we see so much of (e.g. Scream). While it's no masterpiece, the movie is definitely leaps and bounds above anything Kevin Williamson has written. I especially liked the ending, which is NOTHING like anything that has been released theatrically in years. A lot of people hated the ending, but that's because they seem to be conditioned for the trite, happy endings. This harkens back to the more daring days of 1970's era filmmaking. Definitely worth seeing, but don't expect the usual. "},{"Title":"Hugely Entertaining!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's been a while - 4 years to be specific - has a film had so much suspense and yet, although it is a serious (or at least semi-serious) movie, been so much fun.1997's hit Breakdown was a fast paced, extremely suspenseful flick that was a hell of a lot of fun, and so is Jeepers Creepers. Although a horror film, it delivers more fun suspense than scares. Like Breakdown, it is also part road-movie.JC is a lot more fun if not taken very seriously. There are those why the hell would they do that? moments and some gore, but is far different from most of the 'teen-horror' films because a lot of imagination went in to this and there are no, NO subplots going on in the background to distract from the thrills. No dying father. No cheating boyfriend. None of that BS. It is a plain, fast thrill machine of a movie.I love the 'small hicktown' feel that this and Breakdown have. It really helps a horror/suspense vehicle.Many people have complained about the ending. At first I didn't like it. I wanted more, but when I started to think about it later, it was the perfect ending. It fitted in just right with the tone of the entire film, and left it open for sequels.Scale rating 9 out of 10. Grab a bag of popcorn and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Did the movie have two directors?","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Everyone in the theater was so tense.  Who is the driver of the truck? What is in the bags?  What is down the hole.  Everyone was so tense in the theaters.  You could cut the tension with a knife.  People would jump and scream at the slightest...scare.  Then the phone rings and the movie just goes straight to hell.  Maybe the director did this on purpose so the audience wouldn't get heart attacks...or maybe the director of the first half died from fright and some five-year old took the director's seat. "},{"Title":"Bad.....or is it?","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The idea of two kids getting in over their heads by following their curious noses all through the countryside of some unidentified state sounds interesting on its own. It has worked before, why not here with Jeepers Creepers? Why, because the main characters are nearly as unlikable as the villain. I even found myself cheering at the thought of their demise. The sheer ineptitude in every aspect of this production made my hands and feet begin to sweat. But then I had a realization. Maybe, just maybe, (Writer/Director) Victor Salva WANTED us to laugh. I certainly did laugh. Perhaps, he WANTED us to shake our heads in disbelief. I did that too. About one two hundred and forty seven times. He may have even wanted to ensure himself a place on a future incarnation of Mystery Science Theater 3000. Well, he already did that with Powder but here's another worthy effort. I really think he intended comedy in some sick, unhealthy, manic depressive supposed to suck sort of way. Kind of like a cinematic way of cutting yourself.    "}{"Title":"Great return to fear","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I too enjoyed the lack of computer graphics. There was a gritty reality to this work that many high dollar films miss. This is like a great photograph compared to a snapshot. Others should take note of this style. Spend less, accomplish more! Make it realistic!  "},{"Title":"Where'd U get those eyes?","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Considering the horror movies out today compared to those of my younger days (Friday 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street), this movie was pretty darn scary.  I mean it gave me the same feeling it gave me back when I was little and watching horror movies. The only thing in the movie I didn't get was the black psychic lady.  I think she kind of threw the movie off.  But, I guess they figured it would kind of create some suspense as to who the lady was and how she knew all this information about the two college kids.  I sat there thinking oh my God this is crazy, who is that?  To make a long story short when i first saw advertisements about the movie I kept trying to think where I had heard Jeepers Creepers.  I thought it was a comic book of some kind, but now I still don't know.  But the movie turned out to be good. "},{"Title":"An horror adventure of 2 stupid kids by a terrible director","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After viewing this movie, the only thing I still keep in my mind is, Holly s***, I am totally cheated by its commercial.To be honest, it's the most stupid and the cheapest story I have ever seen. I really wonder why the sponsor allowed the unlogical and unreasonable screenplay to become a commercial movie. It's nothing more than an kid's writing...maybe worse. In the theater, everybody yelled, Stupid! Stupid! I extremely feel embarrassed and sympathize the director. As I know, the director is still young, that is, there is still a long way for him to go. But, dear Victor Salva, for the God's sake, I beg you don't do it again.  "},{"Title":"Scariest half of a movie I've seen in quite a while","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half of this movie was eminently creepy.  Unfortunately, once they revealed the creature it was all downhill.  My wife was so scared up until then that she wanted to leave, but she left feeling it was pretty lame overall.It could have been much better.  The problems- No explanation of the '23' thing- The introduction of the psychic- The loss of mystery and suspenseWhat so few filmmakers seem to get is the simple truth that moviegoers often scare themselves with their own imaginations of movie events.  That's why suspense is so much more powerful than shock.  Shock fades, but suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat.  The makers of this film understood for about 45 minutes, but then apparently forgot.Just one burning question I have though - re the license plate.When (and how) did the creature get to the DMV?  "},{"Title":"Worse than anything you can imagine, even House Party III","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is terrible.  The only mildly amusing parts are the two occasions where boom microphones are clearly visible in the upper right-hand corner of the screen.  I didn't expect the film to be very good, but I did expect events to somehow relate to each other, and I also expected the film to have an ending of some sort.  If you're in the mood to get angry about spending money for an awful movie, then you should still stay away from this movie, because it's that awful.     "},{"Title":"Ending reeked, wait and rent if you must.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this right after watching The Others, which I gave a 10. Jeepers Creepers started off kind of slow, but enjoyable. I was thinking I'd give this a 6 out of 10, as not all movies can get a 10. I don't expect anything above a six, so I am rarely disappointed. It was laughable in places, (but I can live with that, as long as I get a good scare), but the ending blew chunks. That was THE WORST ENDING, I'VE EVER SEEN, and I've seen a lot of movies. I was fully prepared to give it a six, if only the ending had been average. I ended up giving it a 2. "},{"Title":"Old School Horror","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yeah, now this is what a horror movie is supposed to be!  If you like classics like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Night of the Living Dead, and Halloween you'll like this one.  It dispenses with the fluffy garbage that horror films of the 90's such as Scream popularized and goes back to basics.  It proves that all you need is a couple of really dumb (and boy are they dumb in this movie) but strangely endearing main characters, a country back-road, and a force of evil to be reckoned with.  It worked in the 70's and it still works today.  This is a good date film - all of the couples were huddled closely together, seeking shelter from the relentless creepiness the movie had to offer.  But there was no shelter to be had - this film really delivers the scares, and will leave you feeling, well, creeped out.  See it! "},{"Title":"Could be so much better!!!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this one.Being a long time horror freak,I have seen a lot but my mind is always open to new horror stuff,even the mostly weak,Hollywood made flicks. I found myself enjoying the first half quite a bit as I found it frightening. The bodies in the chute and the mystery man in the truck were great! Then it was all downhill,I am afraid. Many Hollywood cliches were used and frightfest became a laugh fest.Unveiling of the mystery man's identity was the biggest disappointment.Movie would not have suffered at all,if this identity was not revealed.Special effects were below average and unneccessary. Ending was very forgetable as well. Many people here,are raving about this one.Most are fans of Hollywood MTV generation horror which requires good looking movie cast and usually skimps on plot and scare-factor.Just like modern remake of House On The Haunted Hill,who was for the most part brilliant,this one also has no staying power. Many Dario Argento and Lucio Fulci movies are getting released on dvd in the States. Check out Susperia,Deep Red or The Beyond if you want a scary film without much unneeded special effects. Save your money and forget about this one. "},{"Title":"Scared the f--k out of me!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched a good portion of this movie from behind my hands! WOW, a scary movie that's actually scary! It's simple and straightforward and oh-so-creepy. The two young leads are cute kids, and play at being brother and sister very well. Much of the movie played against type and was not what I expected. I think this is the scariest movie of 2001. If you like your horror movies more understated and psychological, try THE OTHERS. If you yearn for the days of the original FRIDAY THE 13TH movie, check out JEEPERS CREEPERS! (9/10 for genre fans.) "},{"Title":"Spirals down....","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers begins with some genuinely scary scenes.  However, midway through, it spirals down to cliches (Cars that wont start.... Instead of fleeing for their lives, the 2 leads constantly  stick around to watch the creature do his evil....and ,of course, they are driving on the longest stretch of road that is known to mankind that has  no houses or anything) The dialogue is so trite that it made audience members chortle at points. wait for video and save your $10!!! "}{"Title":"A Mixed Review","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay.  First I'll agree with everyone that the psychic was kind of unnecessary and yes, the kids made stupid decisions.  But if they didn't do dumb things, the movie couldn't continue and less people would die; that's how a horror movie works.       The two leads did a very good job with the material- especially Justin Long, who I'm sure is destined for stardom.  I read scathing reviews about this movie before going to see it and still loved it.  I'm not a big fan of gore, and at least it is used in artistic moderation here.  I jumped and screamed in my seat due to some fantastic direction. Sound, rhythm, and pacing were used effectively here.  Some people complain that the creature wasn't scary enough, looked fake, etc. and should've kept us from seeing too much of him.  Well, I could agree with that but those same people were the ones whining that you couldn't see anything in The Blair Witch Project.  There's rhyme and reason for everything, folks.      SPOILER AHEAD  DON'T READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT!!!     What bothered me about this movie was what I thought to be a sense of sexual assault that the creature bestows his victims.  In one scene he's sniffing someone's underwear and liking it, he smelled and tasted his victims, and even licks the inside of their mouths.  Worse happens in this direction.  I despised the final scene because what I saw was a person who got treated in ways like this and was stripped nude, completely dehumanized, tortured, mutilated, and treated like a plaything.  Yes, it's a creature and not a human but I wonder how someone who has been sexually assaulted or molested before would respond to this?  I guess you can say that for lots of horror movie villains, so maybe it's unfair to point fingers, but these elements are used so blatantly here.  The ending did give us something original and non-typical, and I can appreciate the artistic bravery in that.  Overall, I thought the movie was very scary and entertaining and I hope Justin Long's career flourishes.  I just REALLY hated the ending.  "},{"Title":"Neither scary nor interesting","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed that I wasted my money on this movie.  The only word I can think of to describe it is stupid.  The Rugrats in Paris was scarier - and more intelligent! If you are looking for a good scare... see The Others. "},{"Title":"SEEN THAT","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  if you could take a cliche and cover it in been done sauce and serve it in a seen that platter you would have this movie, from the get go it is a rerun and most of the time a bad one, it does have its moments, few, but some.you will ask the same questions over and over, why are you there?,why dont you run?,did they go back, again?, also it ends like a train hitting a wall, fast and unexpected, its like some one walked in on the middle and said we out of money, end it  and they did, so if you like that stuff heres your movie! "},{"Title":"A Great Horror Film With Great Action and Special Effects!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"              Jeepers Creepers is a great and fun horror/action movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat . The movie is filled with thrills and chills that make your heart race. Justin Long and Gina Philips are great and make good performances. Also the monster in the film looks very realistic. Also the film has plenty of blood and gore. But, there were a couple of things I didn't like about the film, but I don't want to tell them because I don't want to spoil the film for you. Except for those couple of things the film was great and full of non-stop thrills and chills! Jeepers Creepers is a highly recommended horror film. I give it a 9 out of 10!!!!   ) "},{"Title":"Really, really scary...","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This horror-film is really scary. It has all the scares a horror-film should have. I think that this film is much better than Scream. Jeepers Creepers is the best modern horror-film of all times! And that is so true. I'll give it ***** / 5. It's really worth it! See this movie now...You will love it! I promise...! "},{"Title":"When people forget how to use the clutch.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a movie surcrease with stupidity.  Before i get into my rant anyone who has not seen the movie would do well to look away or you can keep reading and save ten bucks. First this movie starts off fine enough with two siblings fighting.  Then they pass a camper with two old people in it.  After a few quips they stay in front of the camper instead of speeding off as one would do when you pass someone.  Then they see someone throwing bodies down a shute, said person comes after them and runs them off the road.  Then instead of going back to finish them off and add another two bodies he speeds off.  Of course we must feel sorry for two people who have a Chevy and cannot outrun a four-ton truck. After finding a few bodies down the pipe.  They go to a diner where they call the police and called by the resident, crazy as a rat in a tin pot-o -potty, black psychic.  The man kills the two cops as they drive back to the shute. The brother/sister combo then runs, forward and backward enough time to ruin the clutch, the man over until he is nothing but dust in the wind and go to a police station where the man magically comes back to life and wipes out the whole police force.  The duo is then joined by a a women who sees the future like a movie, with parts missing .  That is what this movie is like because then it jumps to the man who has become a flying monstrosity take away the brother to his lair.  What you would then expect is the sister to chase the creature in their Chevy but she just sits there whining because she blew out the clutch two reels ago.Then it goes to a new base of operations in an abandoned oil factory as the creature kills the brother and we are left with the creature looking through the boys ripped eyesockets and the song playing in the background.  The way this movie ends so abruptly you would think that the studio pulled finding after seeing the dailies.  I have not seen a movie based on a song this bad since Jumpin Jack Flash. This movie was not all bad it was slightly scary with scattered shots of the lovely female lead and the, always necessary to drag out a good horror movie, woman with a houseful of cats who has a double barreled shotgun that never has to be reloaded. What my best friend and I found to be the most hilarious is that when the brother is driving, the car the clutch is smooth when they pass the camper but it becomes stiff for the sister and then when they are driving along it becomes an automatic.  The few laughs contained in this movie hardly warrant spending the money on it and it is not worth howling at the jokes unless you are in an empty movie theater with your best friend. Why was it empty?  Maybe we were missing something. "},{"Title":"Don't take it so seriously!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yes, it's moronic. It's an old old OLDschool horror movie with every cliche - primarily dumb, annoying teenagers screeching at each other and doing everything wrong yes let's go into that dark basement in the abandoned building and see what that terrifying guy who just tried to kill us is hiding till you're smacking your forehead and shaking your head. The soundtrack is loud and jarring, the characters totally unsympathetic and grating, the fx are okay, the shocks are nonexistent, and the acting sucks. But when I woke up at 4am and I was afraid to walk down the hall to the bathroom, I realized they'd done their job. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best movie ever!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Victor Salva does it again. Fresh from his masterpiece Powder. In this movie two kids,a boy and a girl, a (brother and sister) which really mixes it up are driving down the road, when all of a sudden a creepy truck starts ramming them-HARD! They are rightly creeped out-but escape unharmed, outside of the smell of fear sweat, which will be important later. Imagine having an old big scary thing trying to hit your backside and getting away only smelling bad. The kids then do the natural thing and when they see the driver of the truck throwing what appear to be bodies down a drain next to an abandoned church, they wait until the truck drives past them and then drive back to the abandoned church where one of them after commenting about the abundant crows proceeds to fall down the drain and comes upon-a graveyard of young people, yet the only ones that are highlighted are a mixed race couple(perhaps a subtext of Salva- miscegenation or race mixing=death. SPOILER Some other stuff happens, but no the potentially incestuous subplot isn't exploited(maybe on the director's cut!) and the brother gets killed with the monster(perhaps the monster inside all men who wants to hunt children) using his eyes ala Leatherface. On a scale of one to ten-with powder being a ten, I give it an eight. Make mine Salva. "},{"Title":"Original monster movie that was good, but could have been better!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was quite an original monster movie, and being that it is still fairly new, I won't give away any details to those that haven't seen it yet.  It was satisfying as a horror flick until the ending.  The ending made sense to the plot of the film, but was totally unsatisfying as to what I had expected. It was also very abrupt.  I was expecting a better climax to the film and it never happened.  It's like the writer took a wrong turn at the script's end!!  Overall it was enjoyable for anyone who likes Horror, but I agree with some of the other user comments that the Psychic lady was not necessary!  Overall, I would rate it 3 out of 4 stars. It lost a star from me because of the quick ending!! "},{"Title":"Worse than Battlefield Earth.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have one disclaimer to my following criticisms; I walked out of the film after thirty minutes.  That said, this was so bad I found it unwatchable. It is bad enough to watch a horror film where the characters/victims are stupid.  To have to watch a horror film where the characters are beyond stupid and just robotically performing totally unbelievable antics simply because they were contrived and written down by a writer in an amateurish script is intolerable.This film starts out with a static shot of a rolling, deserted two lane highway.  Two headlights appear on the horizon.  As they approach the voices of two people can be faintly heard.  As the car approaches, the voices grow in volume.  Then, the car dips behind a ridge and the voices become quiet. The car crests the ridge, much closer now, and we can finally clearly hear the two inhabitants talking in the car.  Finally the car passes camera as we cut to the interior.  Total elapsed time somwhere between two minutes and a lifetime.  I couldn't tell specifically.  I almost fell asleep.  Bernardo Bertolucci would have even cautioned against a shot this long.Soon after, a supercharged, old, rusty truck with blackened windows harasses the two occupants of the car from the opening shot by honking its horn and swerving back and forth behind them.  The teenage boy suddenly forgets how to drive a car and starts swerving around too.  The girl, his sister, becomes hysterical and starts screaming at her brother.  Finally the old truck makes it past them.  I believe that the driver in the truck was just frustrated with having to share the road with such idiots.  The truck drives off ahead.At this point about sixty-eight years of insipid dialog occur between the brother and sister.  All this made worse by the constant cracking of the boy's voice.  I guess by the dialog that they are supposed to be college age, yet he is clearly going through puberty judging by the jarring pitch shifts into the stratosphere that his voice undergoes.Finally the kids in the car catch up to the driver of the truck who is dumping bodies wrapped in sheets into a drain pipe.  The truck driver sees them and gets back in his truck.  He zooms up to the kids and smashes their car off the road into a field.  Does the truck driver stop at this point, get out and kill the two kids?  Of course not.  That wasn't written in the script dummy.This film had not a single thing of any value within the first half hour. It may have had Oscar quality material in the middle and end but I can't possible see how.  At least there were a couple of good visual effects shots in Battlefield Earth (possibly the worst film ever... until now). "}{"Title":"Two teenagers, brother and sister, are attack by an entity.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JC is the worst horror movie I have seen to date.  The characters were so very unrealist.  I mean what was Victor Salva thinking when he wrote this and the studio executive thinking when he greenlit this movie.  I mean it really suck.  It made all white people in America look so stupid like who would really go back to house where some one was dumping a body.  Does Salva think people are stupid enough to buy this.  What about this so called psychic she just all of a sudden shows up in the movie and calls the main character.....yea right....I believed that one.  She came out of now where. I am so glad that I DID NOT PAY FOR THAT MOVIE....I would recommend waiting for this movie to come out on cable and then I would have to be totally bored to watch it.  After much anticipation to see this movie,  I hated it from start to finish it was borning, as one movie goer screamed out, it sucked screamed another movie goer as she walked out and the rest of was just shocked at how stupid and unreal the characters seemed.  I suggest Hollywood start going to the movies with average people so they will know what to write or that the writer/director seek another career!!!!I give this movie 10 thumbs down!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Must have seen a different movie....","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After all of the comments I had seen for this movie posted on here, I was able to convince my friends to go see it. Now I think people must have been talking about a different movie, because there was no purpose to seeing this pile of garbage.***SPOILERS AHEAD***Yes, I realize its supposed to be your typical horror movie, with your typical horror movie elements (i.e. dumb people, helpless cops), and it did give us that, but seemed to ignore all of what makes horror movies fun. There definitely wasn't enough gore for gore hounds (except for the ending scene), and there sure wasn't enough suspense for normal movie watchers. It had a couple of cheap shocks, but you could see them coming from a mile away.Also, for all the talking that went on in the movie, nothing really was explained.  Every 23 years for 23 days he feeds... Uh, great, so what??? Who is he?  Where did he come from?  Do these questions get answered? No. And for all the talking, why oh why do they continue to do stupid things after they know they're stupid?  In your typical horror movie, people do stupid things, but they're not saying out loud, Gosh, this is a really bad idea. ***End SPOILERS***In closing, if you want to see classic horror being done right, see something else.  If you want a gore fest, see something else.  If you want a cheesy slasher flick, see something else.  If you want to feel good about how you spend 1 1/2 hours of your life, see something else! "},{"Title":"The highlight of the movie, was drinking my soda.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie bring new definition to the BAD in B-Movie.  The cheesiest set of events I have ever seen, what did that psychic have to do with anything?  And all those 23s.Possible SpoilerThe monster looks like a Predator reject, like someone looked at all the possible submissions for it, and used one of the ones they didnt like.Granted, their are a few sudden jump out of your seat moments, but other than that, dont see it.  Please, make the studios bring the prints back early, so theres more room for better movies. "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't have to pay to see this","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie left me with alot of questions. What the heck is that monster and where did he come from?  Who was that crazy lady anyway and if she had anything to do with that monster. Don't think is a horror movie at all. I'm glad I didn't go to the movie and see this. I downloaded this movie on my computer.  Really like 'The Others'!!!!Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"scary as junk","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers creepers was a very good and very scary movie.  Although it was hard to believe on how stupid the two people were in the movie.  I think that there could have been a better ending.  It seemed that the movie was building up to a bigger better ending, then letter u down with a sorry ending that could have been done by a 10 year old, the rest of the movie though was very good. "},{"Title":"What a great movie.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Regardless of whatever negative reviews come out I believe that this film is one of thoose that you just have to go out and experience for yourself, some of these people on here may hate the movies you love and praise the films that you hate, my only thing is that you as the people should go out and see these movies with your own eyes and experience what a movie is and see a movie the way it should be seen... in a theater.Jeepers Creepers is a movie really worth seeing. "},{"Title":"what a disappointment","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  During the first week it came out I heard that it was the scariest movie of the year, and blah blah. Well when I saw it the other day I was sitting there wondering if I was in the right movie theater. I was so disappointed that it was not even remotely scary or even any good. The movie left so many unanswered questions, and it dragged on so much. The only thing I can agree with is the fact that the movie had no special effect, which was good because after watching so many movies shamefully over use special effect it was nice to see a movie with no special effects. But sadly enough they must have forgotten a plot and most importantly scary parts "},{"Title":"*** out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   Two kids heading home on a long, deserted road see someone dumping something that resembles a body and decide to investigate, but get more than they  bargained for. Fun, often very scary horror pic raises to the occasion and offers two appealing lead performances, some twisted humor, and a change of pace ending that works.  "},{"Title":"I could really use a Mikes Hard Lemonade","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was messed up. But all in all it was good. The acting was okay, the special effects were good and the plot was awesome. The only part I didn't like was that they never really explained what the thing was. I think it was either a zombie or a giant lizard. Or both. Well, after the beating it took, there must have been some Mikes Hard Lemonade in that kids eyes. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From the very beginning of Jeepers Creepers you realize they have the premise of a great horror movie and half an hour into it, the movie goes flat. I think the moment it jumped the shark for me must've been in the diner scene. I won't spoiler, but beyond that the movie's predictable. You can't believe the choices these characters make.I think it may satisfy today's generation of horror fans, but I thought it could've been better. It was definately a rental, not a bigscreen must-see.  "}{"Title":"sucks","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie sucked, the only thing that stopped me from walking out was my wife holding on to me. it was single line plot, based on assumptions and preclusions. no one who walked out of the lightly packed theater thought very highly of this waste of cellulose. i wouldnt recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"What was Coppola thinking?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I know Francis Ford Coppola was only the executive producer, but I would have taken my name off this thing. I started out ok, if a bit slow, but definitely a 70's/80's feel. My initial impression was The Dual (1971/TV Dennis Weaver). A good road thriller. Then it edged into Texas Chainsaw Massacre territory, with Scream -like references thrown in.  (If this were a horror movie...) Our brother and sister team come across some evil in the middle of nowhere. Next came Halloween/Hellraiser with killer in pursuit because of some supernatural link. Eventually we end up with a cross between Pumpkinhead and Alien. An seemingly indestructible monster/alien. While all good movies (for the most part), trying to get all these elements into one movie just doesn't work. Especially when they are introduced in stages and then discarded for the next theme. There was some much that could have been done if the number of themes were pared down and developed further. It seemed as if you were just getting the feel of the movie when it would shift. I would love to know what was left on the cutting room floor or cut from the script. It almost seems as if it were made by committee. "},{"Title":"An Impromptu Review","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Writer/Director Victor Salva Actors Gina Philips (Trish) Justin Long (Darryl) SPOILER ALERT! You will leave the cinema with more questions than a talk show host on cocaine. Why did the RV run off the main road in the background? No answer. What did the dying kid whisper into Darryl's ear before he passed? It looked as if Derryl had reach an epiphany&#133;but no, guess not. No answer here either and there are a lot more. Why did the creeper let them pass by on the road? What did the inside of the church look like? Why couldn't Trish drive her own car without grinding the hell out of her gears--try putting it in first! Why hasn't this creature been spotted on this backwater highway before? You would think someone would have noticed all these people disappearing in the same area. Certainly the FBI would have managed it after so many years. There are other questions but my main one was who is this guy/thing and why is he doing this? Nothing on this end either. He's a bad, bad guy and nothing seems to drive him. Don't get me wrong, I liked how he looked initially. Huge guy with trench coat and hat&#133;but he's a demon-looking thing. Yawn. A total copout. I feel sorry for the two main actors Gina Philips and Justin Long; they did a very good job considering what they had to work with. I have a younger sister and I can see us saying some of these things. I hope this movie doesn't reflect poorly on their acting careers. Some very good dialogue (between the two siblings), some interesting/scary sights (though stolen from Aliens), but overall a crummy film that leaves you empty. Victor Salva, shame on you. D- "},{"Title":"Oh my god this movie sucked","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had a feeling this movie was gonna suck just by the title.  Jeepers Creepers, what kind of stupid title is that?  The acting was bad, the script was bad, and the creature looked incredibly fake.  Francis Ford Coppola, why do you waste your time on crap like this?  Not that you should be expected to create an Apocalypse Now or Godfather all the time, but is it really that hard to see that a lot of your work lately has been crap? "},{"Title":"Kinda creepy, but sometimes incomprehensible","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Perhaps if I had not seen any commercials or trailers for this movie, I would have enjoyed it more.  Then again, perhaps not.  It had some very cool moments as well as very scary ones, but between these moments the film seemed to struggle to fill up an hour and a half.  Most of the scenes that are meant to build suspense end up being too long and drawn out, as the main characters don't really seem to want to escape.  When you go to a horror movie you expect the main characters to make bad decisions, but many of the main characters' actions are simply inexplicable.  Just like most of their dialogue.  A lot of sub-plots are started only to be mentioned in passing or never again.  It seemed as if the movie was meant to be much longer, but some plot lines had to be cut for some reason.  I'm glad they went with a surprise ending, but the movie was ultimately unfulfilling.  This might be a good one to rent and watch late at night, but it wasn't really worth seeing in the theater.  Thank goodness for student tickets. "},{"Title":"Some good parts, but still a let down.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first 45 minutes or so of this film are pretty good, but the film rapidly deteriorates from there.  There is little that can be said without spoiling the plot for people, so I will just put it this way the degree to which the 'killer' is superhuman/supernatural is just too much.  It takes away from the thriller aspect of the film.  When you walk back to your car after the movie, or into your basement to do laundry later, you will not fear that this killer could be waiting for you in the darkness, unlike the feeling you may get after Halloween, Silence of the Lambs, or insert your favorite good horror movie here.Also, the end was awful.  Just as it seems that we are about to start a bit of an adventure, it ends.  Many questions are left unanswered.  When you combine all of this with some huge problems with the plot. I should note that I am easily pleased by horror movies, so for me to say negative things is unusual.  However, if you like these films, go see it anyway.  The ravens were cool, at least. "},{"Title":"Pretty Stupid","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty stupid and very cheesy. The plot for this movie was so stupid that I can't even tell you. It seemed as if they really wanted to make a movie with a monster and just thought of the plot at the last minute just so they could make the movie. I have to say that it was pretty entertaining only because I was laughing at the stupid parts the whole time with my friends. Also, the ending was a big let down cause it just ended, without resolving anything or without finding out anymore about the monster and it seemed as if there would be a lot more to go....then it just faded out and it was over. And Trish's brother Darry had the most stupidest facial expressions that you can't help but laugh at. Sadly there were only two parts out of the whole movie that I thought was actually cool. After the movie was over I was wishing that I didn't spend my 8.50 on the ticket. I would only recommend to rent this movie if you're having a party and want a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yeah, yeah it's supposed to be ridiculous right, it's a modern day horror flick, but this movie was at times just downright retarded. Aside from some good lighting and a few cool camera shots this movie isn't even worth renting.  It's hard to care about the characters and whether or not they die because everyone in the film deserves to.  The psychic was especially annoying.  And the fact that the song jeepers creepers plays an important part in the movie (it's the monster's favorite song!)is smack yourself on the forehead stupid. Everytime it plays it induces laughs rather than terror.  And what is with the killer?  What is it?  Why is it killing people?  Why does it sew the bodies back up?  Apparently it's killed a lot of people, why didn't anybody notice until now?  Where did it come from? Does the list of things that are introduced in the movie and then never addressed again end?  Who cares?  This is just another movie made by people who are glad to take your $$$ because they know 2 weeks from now (or less) you'll forget you ever even saw it.  Garbage "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I too went to Jeepers Creepers expecting no better than the average (i.e. bad) horror film.  It seems that several of these are released about this time every year (recently the Haunting of Hill house movies...ugh).  I usually regret spending the time and money to see these films, but Jeepers Creepers doesn't fall into that category.  Thankfully, It does not follow the same old tired plot as every other recent horror film.  Rather than introducing a group of people (and making it pretty obvious who will be among the first few to get whacked), the film focuses around two main characters, and does a good job in doing so.  As someone said earlier, the ending is definitely unconventional.  Given the success this film has met so far, I would not be surprised to see a sequel next year. "},{"Title":"misunderstood, which means interesting","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  So many bad reviews for an actually pretty good movie! But I understand; in the USA the audience is always used to see a happy ending. When some filmmakers try to do different,people beg for a cliche... I don't understand, really. The whole film was scary, it worked with no downtime. I thought the creature, although not very original, looked much better than the CGI cartoonesque monsters we see in all those crappy science fiction flicks lately (did you see star wars the phantom menace?) The girl was really cute and a good actress, the brother funny with his eyes popping out (oops!) Yes, the first hour is better than the rest; but the strange humor of the second half of the film is also entertaining! Go see it if you want to see a real horror film, like in the 80's. "}{"Title":"you liked this film???","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ok. seen the previews... and yes i'm a sucker for this sh*t. the question left in my mind after seeing this film was what the heck was going on behind the scenes??? seemingly some pressure to 'get this thing wrapped-up' because all of the creative energy in the beginning of this film is never actualized in the resolution. it literally hits a f-flat. movie bis is movie bis and when 'they' say cut, 'they' mean cut. the film could have been 20min longer at least - that may have given this original, intriguing and freeky idea the extra-charge this film deserved. excellent casting, and visual-creepyness a++ worth a look, but unfortunately doesn't escape the harsh critique... i wonder,  tell me victor, were you disappointed as well?? "},{"Title":"Not enough for the horror crowd....","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a decade too late, and even then it would be percieved as a rip-off. Now, why would it wait 23 years or whatever was it's eating period, and then eat? Indigestion problem. I cannot even waste my time on this movie, but I saw it. The creature was rather uncreative, and ripped off many infamous horror creatures. I'd also say that the title is rather corny, and I would expect this from a child molester Victor Saliva. *1/2 star, because I saw it. "},{"Title":"Not good at all!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Same old tired type of movie.  The people in the movie do things that only someone smoking crack would do.  Their actions make no sense.  It seems like the first 30 minutes of the movie is the two main characters talking in their car.  The girl whines the whole movie and seems to have a chip on her shoulder, but we are never told why.  Little things are thrown up and then never talked about again.  We should have walked out after the first 10 minutes like my wife wanted to. "},{"Title":"Save yourselves","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's already too late to save me from this train wreck of a movie.  It proves a short story a movie doth not make.  This was an annoying movie from the beginning and didn't get any better as it rambled on for two hours of nothing but stupidity from the main characters, bad f/x and a script with no direction.  Halfway through the somewhat cliche costume of the villain is ditched and replaced with a cheap rubber costume.  The movie even lacks a climax!  When it's done, your left thinking is that it?!?  I paid money for this?  If I can just get enough people to not pay to see this movie, I'll feel a little less bad for having paid to see it myself. "},{"Title":"Aspiring Script Writers, Take Heart!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If this summer has been any indication, Hollywood is willing to put ANYTHING to film! JEEPERS CREEPERS is the best proof of this and the final nail in the coffin for this summer's schlockfest! If you're looking to sell your script idea, do it now! Hollywood will most likely buy it, especially if you don't know what you're doing! Victor Salva has  obviously never taken a class in screenwriting or movie making.Jeepers Creepers has socially inept, mentally stunted, unlikeable characters. The story (using the term loosely) meanders aimlessly like a lazy Sunday at the mall shopping with mom. I can't comment on the climax since it didn't have one and the ending just ... ends. The movie seemed to be made up of scenes that Salva thought would look creepy, but, with nothing to hold them together and camera work as static as my socks, the scenes failed to pull anything from me except contempt. I have seen some drek in my day (Reptilicus & A*P*E), but at least they make me laugh. My friend and I laughed during Jeepers only to keep ourselves from setting fire to the projection booth!Bottom line Easily the worst movie ever made! If you miss it, you won't miss it! "},{"Title":"Horror movie???  NOT!!!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have watched quite a few bad movies lately, but this one has got to be one of the worst that I've seen in a long time.  I don't even know why it is classified as a horror movie.  I was sitting there laughing the entire time because the situations in the movie were totally ridiculous.  Not once did I come close to being startled in this movie.  The two main characters were just so idiotic, I was hoping they would get killed!  This was a total waste of my time and money.  It's not even worth renting.  If you're in a mood to see a Scary movie, may I suggest The Others. "},{"Title":"Good plot but less is more...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie in general fits the criteria for a classic horror film.  In my opinion the movie had great potential but it lacked in substance.  The film was ok until they showed the creature.  Less is more!!!  If Wes Craven got a hold of this movie it would be a LOT better!  If they would have left the creature somewhat unseen it would have been creepier.  Watch the original Nightmare on Elm Street and see how Craven keeps Freddy lurking in the darkness.  It leaves more to the watchers imagination.  The director of Jeepers Creepers might want to take some lessons from Wes. "},{"Title":"The WORST B-Movie ever!!!!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was the worst B-movie that I have seen in years!  How many times did I have to say you're an idiot, why are you going in there!  It's your typical stupid plot (what there was of one) that never fully explained what the 'monster' was, where it came from, and why it was doing what it was doing.  All the people in the theater were screaming for 'it' to kill Gina & Darry (I'm not spoiling anything so don't worry).  They were the worst actors in this movie, other than the 'monster'!  The 'Cat Lady' was the only character that I liked in this movie.  I read an interview with 'Gina' and she said that her character was the female-hero and didn't do anything that would make you scream What are you doing?....WHAT SCRIPT WAS SHE READING FROM!  Obviously not the same one that ended up in the movie. My recommendation is to NOT SEE THIS MOVIE even if someone pays for your ticket!   "},{"Title":"Like the X-Files only bad","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was a waste of time and money. The monster in this film looks to me like a bad X-Files reject and his overall stupidity made me laugh more than anything else. How could ANYONE be stupider than the two teenage leads? Sure that can be fun in its own hokey way but after the 30th time one teen looked at the other and said Let's get out of here! I was just annoyed by they're wide-eyed fake terror. The final nail in the coffin of this bloated corpse of a film had to be the over-acting psychic. Yes, there was a psychic. Mainly this characters only purpose was to fill in the plot holes, and she did this poorly. To fill this films plot holes you would need the films writer/director setting next to you explaining things too you as you watched step by step, and we all know how annoying THAT can be. Skip Jeepers Creepers unless you are a gore fan, which this film delivers in buckets. Stick with a SMART horror film like The Others. The only way I would recommend this film is if you snuck in the back way. I hope since Creepers was #1 we might see another horror film revival, but I pray that the next promising horror film doesn't turn out to be a piece of trash like this. "},{"Title":"Visually enticing, but horribly written","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **NO SPOILERS**Taking a cue from the sunlight-drenched pseudo-horror start of Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Jeepers Creepers presents what could be a great, club-blunt horror film.  Instead it turns out to be the poor, formulaic adventure of two late teens faced with the challenge of surviving their own decisions and each other's half-witted lines.The mish-mash of ridiculously recycled dialog, recycled action, and inhumanly obtuse motivations easily override what, at the offset, could definitely have been the first 21st century Texas Chainsaw Massacre.Now many people seem to find the plot and dialog fresh and invigorating, but then again a recent local survey had Perkins voted as one of the best restaurants in town.  Take it as you will.All in all an average film that could have been refreshingly creepy if it had the teenager's motivations and dialog reviewed by a handful of true horror fans before filming started.  You have to hope that this is Victor's last favor he's gathered by not naming names before going to jail -- harsh, but how else could such a poor director get such bad movies made and distributed? "}{"Title":"Does everyone here need their entertainment spoon fed?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's either that, or everyone has forgotten why we go to the movies in the first place TO GET AWAY FROM REALITY, if only for a moment. Life is full of things much more horrendous than any one film maker can conjure up for the big screen. Movies let us get away from that. I've read every review here for this movie. The killer goes left, the teens go right they never explained the demons origin blah blah blah. Please for the love of god STOP TAKING THINGS SO SERIOUSLY! The name of the movie is Jeepers Creepers for god sake, not Schindlers List! If the teens getting stalked in the movie did all of the right things, would that be more entertaining? No. Why? Because then the threat would be eliminated. Gee, that sounds really entertaining. As for the origin of the creature, lets look at the Nightmare on elm street movies, or the Halloween sequels for a moment. Each one did more & more to explain what the reasons for the main baddies actions were. Each one also progressively SUCKED. How can we be scared of something that we're all too familiar with? Freddy became an anorexic Rodney Dangerfield. Michael became a Pagan(!) of all things. I can go on. But why? Whats the point? Can't we just revel in the mystery for once & enjoy it? After all isn't it just that that keeps us wanting more? Oh, how I long for the days when the actors in movies were just fodder for the killers, or meat for the monsters. Now they're the stars. Jeepers Creepers was to me, a welcome throw back to those days. Bravo!  "},{"Title":"WHAT?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the stupidest movie I have ever seen.  I can't believe that I was gullible enough to spend my money on it.  If there is a sequel you can definitely count me out.  That is until it comes on t.v. "},{"Title":"Almost a classic..","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (A possible spoiler or two) That's exactly how I see this film, after having seen it twice. The explanation of the killer is pretty far-fetched and the last third of the film becomes a little too silly to really go with the first hour or so of the movie, but this is one of my favorite films this year.The acting was good, if not a little over the top by some of the actors (like the psychic lady) and the story, for the most part was very good. The mood of the movie is really creepy and effective and there are a few jump out of your seat moments. There's also a few gory parts, that may make some of the audience cringe just a little bit. I won't mention the ending, but let's just say, the last few minutes leave a moderate possibility of a sequel. I hope so, because I'd like a little more info. on the killers origin and reasons for killing, which is only other fault in the film.I thought it was rather effective and well done, it's been a while since there's been a good old fashioned horror film and this does the genre justice. ***1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A REAL 'Scary Movie'?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Tired of all those too-clever spoofs on the horror genre?  You know the ones.  The kids are all too aware of the secrets to horror movies - except when they are confronted by the cartoon killers.JEEPERS CREEPERS makes a few references to 'scary movies' but, it does not deserve to be lumped in with the slew of 90's era horror movies.  This reminded me a lot of a TALES FROM THE CRYPT episode - only better. One of the most powerful tools working for this movie is its cast.  I've never seen either of the lead performers so I didn't know what they were capable of in terms of character.  This unknown status benefits the film greatly and makes them more exciting to watch on the screen.The film actually succeeds at something I have not seen previously.  To take something completely scary and to set it in broad daylight.  I also like that these characters don't bring a tortured past along with them. They don't want to be home but the aren't safe away from there, either. It's also nice to not know very much about the villain of which there are two symbolic representations of the villain.  The actual villain and the villain's vehicle.The characters are ordinary people.  They don't ask for forgiveness or sympathy.  The audience must take them as they are portrayed.  They don't ask to be cared about or even liked.  Both have faults and both have very honorable traits at two different stages of the film. All around, this was a great little movie & definitely worth catching! "},{"Title":"From one Horror Movie buff to another","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK i am a big horror movie buff seeing all the classics like Jason, Freddy, The Scream movies, the sleepaway camps,Hallowe'en , Puppet master, The Hitcher...I mean everything.. Jeepers Creepers was to me one of the most horrifically boring movies I have ever watched in my life.. Sure i mean Horror Movies like Killer Clowns from Outer Space was I mean really bad but at least it had some good comedy in it..The only thing in this movie that kept me in my seat was the killer.. An Excellent job my the 3-D effects guys and the makeup artists..I liked the Originality of  this character as i have seen too many movies with a masked killer with a Knife.. But the Plot line of this movie was horrible..I mean its 2 teenagers driving home who see a guy dump a body into a basement of a church and then in turn go in and investigate for the body. As always the villian knows their there and the chase begins. Now for anyone out there who has seen this movie..what the hell is with that van he drives..why drive a vehicle that is so dame obvious and for some reason faster then a freaking indy car. Like really the movie goes no where as we are introduced to a lady who can see the future and sees what will happen to them..Come on are there no good ideas for movies out there anymore.. IN my opinion dont go see this movie, save your money for a movie that is actually worth $11.00 "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype.  Bad movie!!!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I read some good things about this movie before seeing it.  And, I'll admit that the opening couple of sequences are pretty scary.  But as happens with many horror movies, when the plot is advanced the movie gets worse and worse.  Classic horror movie mistakes, I thought, were a thing of the past, with the help of Wes Craven's Scream.  This is obviously not the case.  Cliches run wild in this movie.  People in the audience were literally saying just drive away which resulted in a laugh in the audience.Finally, some movies don't have a beginning, middle and end.  Some are designed simply to make sequels.  It's like a multi-million dollar franchise.  Why on earth would McDonald's only open one restaurant?  They wouldn't.  So, I'm sure we can expect Jeepers Creepers 2 within the next year or so.  And I'm sure it will be worse than the first, which means I would shoot myself in the foot if it meant I didn't have to watch.Don't bother with this one.  Rent A Nightmare on Elm Street or Halloween or Psycho.  I gave Jeepers Creepers 4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing. Not worth the ticket price!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ** THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN TINY SPOILERS **Before I saw this movie I thought, even the name of the movie made it seem like a joke. when i saw the movie i found out the whole thing was a joke. the movie started out promising but got boring after the first half hour. The killer was creepy when he was in his truck, but after the he grew wings the rest of the movie sucked. also, the movie should have gone into more detail about the song instead of just saying it was his warning. in fact, most of the movie should have been expanded on. if the movie had expanded on its sub-plots I would have probably been able to give it a 7/10. instead, it only deserves a 2/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Good (Spoilers)","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, for all of you who thought that this movie was stupid because none of the characters ever did what they should have done, DUH! Of course they never did what you would have done; IT IS A HORROR MOVIE! People are suppose to be stupid in horror movies because if they did what they were suppose to, then they never would have been stabbed, eaten, decapitated or whatever else happens to victims in horror movies.This movie was great. It wasn't actually scary, but it did make you jump. It had some pretty cool gross scenes, like when the monster ate the cop's tounge, or when the monster was eating a prisoner in the jail; all I can say is that I was glad that I didn't have popcorn then.The 2 main characters were great. They played their parts well. They added some comic relief when things got too intense. The song was perfect for this movie. *If you listen to it carefully, you will find out what happens in the end.* The psychic was ok, she did make the audience wonder what was going to happen in the end, so it makes you think about all the possible outcomes.The ending totally sucked (in my opinion.) However, it did leave the movie open for a sequel. (It has its possibilities.)All I can say is, don't take anybody's word for it, go see it for yourself. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Decent horror movie.  Had great potential.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must echo the sentiments of many others who said the first part of this movie is great.  The setup is fantastic even though it is nothing new (Duel & Phantasm come to mind).  The brother/sister dynamic helped me to identify with characters that may otherwise have been unlikable.  What prevented this from being a great horror movie (other than the ending and loose ends) was the revelation of the creeper.  The shot of the shape in an overcoat and brimmed hat watching the kids' car as it slowly passed the church for the first time was perfect.  The car walking scene was also great.  If you are a horror/slasher fan, you will enjoy this movie, you will just wish you could have taken over as producer of the movie after the first hour.  Oh, what could have been!!  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"pee-u!!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Major let down, this was our first big attempt at a movie being filmed in our county (Marion) and only the 1st 1/2 hour was creepy. The only thing recognizable as Florida was the irrepressible Spanish Moss, And it was scarier than the flesh eating dollar general rubber masked thing that looked like a rip off of the Creature from the Black Lagoon. One wonders why anyone even bothered to make this movie as it was a wasted effort by everyone involved.  C'mon back to Marion County, filmakers, and make a real movie.  I wouldn't even recommend wasting $$ to rent this one. Not even for 99 cents.    "}{"Title":"Do not waste your money on  this...","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I gave it a 2 and not 1 just for the beginning. I have to admit that it got me but after the first 15 minutes one cliche after another started. Two stupid kids that instead of scaring me they were aggravating me. When they showed the monster I thought it was Freddie Crouger but I was wrong, it was a batman in with Freddie's head. I mean come on... How stupid can you get? Instead of paying to see this movie, take a $5 bill and light it on fire, hold it until you can feel the flame near you fingers and I guarantee you that it will give you a bigger scare than watching this idiotic movie. DO NOT SEE IT. "},{"Title":"They must have hoped the audience wouldn't ask questions.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It has been a long time since Horror movies have offered this type of movie. Over the past 5-6 years, we have been beaten over the head with the masked Killer.  I don't even consider movies like Scream, Valentine, I know what you did... and others of those kinds to be horror movies...Maybe suspense, but not horror.  It was refreshing to see Horror reverting back to the monster movie.With the hearing the disappointing news that Halloween 8 would not be coming out this year, I was delighted to see another Horror movie coming out Jeepers Creepers.  Kinda weird, spooky title.  The trailers looked really good.  A dark, mysterious creatures is stalking and killing people, for a reason we can only attribute to cannibalism.  Setting its sites on two teens coming home from college.Well, the movie starts rather slow.  Then picks up with the appearance of a strange, rusted, decaying truck, taunting the teens, trying to run them off the road...ok, so we see this happen twice withing the first 20 mins of the movie.  The kids going back to the old church were they saw somemone throwing something down the pipe...and the boy falling down the hole to discover the frightening truth.  After we are taken on a rather timid ride through this would-be horror movie.Though it had a decent set-up, Jeepers Creepers fall dead.  Letting itself become predictable, silly, and above all Not Scary.  The entrance of the Psychic was lame and seemed just tacked on.  I don't feel that character was in the first draft of the script.  The CGI was almost amateurish at some times, and really didn't seem needed.  The creature looked like one of the gargoyles from the made for tv movie (back in the 70's) called Gargoyles. I did, however like the costume.Unfortunatley, this movie really does fall on its face.  The ending is so obvious, if you don't catch on very early in the movie, you apparently just have been watching the same movie as the rest of us.  This also sets us up for a sleuth of sequels.  I mean, if this things can't be killed, or at least we are hinted towards that, then that means sequel, sequel, sequel...And the questions we can ask  Where did this things come from?  Why does it only hunt every 23 years for only 23 days?  What is up with the song? and why is it relevant to the ritualistic way the creature hungs?  Who the hell is the psychic, and why is she important?  Why did the creature gut the kids whole head, and not just take his peepers?  Well, there are too many to go on...This wasn't a bad horror movie, but it wasn't a good one either.  I don't feel I wasted by 5 bucks.  If there is a sequel, I hope some questions are answered.On the other hand, not knowing alot, did make the atmosphere and the suspense and scare factor a little higher, because we didn't know why this thing did what it does, or where or who or why or what.  This movie it want to be a real horror/monster movie, but just became another casualty in a long line of recent horror efforts.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"so bad it's fun","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After several years of increasingly lame Scream ripoffs and even worse supernatural trash (Blair Witch 1+2, The Haunting), this was a bit of a welcome break.Jeepers Creepers throws away any pretense of being a smart horror film and gleefully trots out every cliche in the catalog the more-guts-than-brains guy who just HAS to go investigating where he shouldn't; the girl who reluctantly goes along after trying unsuccessfully to talk him out of it; the creepy old boarded-up church; the small-town diner in the middle of nowhere; the cops who don't believe any of it and are powerless to do anything when they finally do believe; and best of all, the stupidest-looking creature and cheesiest special effects this side of Arcade.  Oh yeah, don't forget the crazy old lady who of course is the only person who knows where the monster comes from (and believe me, it's the worst explanation for a monster's existence in about 50 years).No, it's not scary.  But at least you'll laugh.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Creepy","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie after seeing only one preview. The preview made creature look really cool. Well all I have to say is that is a lie. The movie is truly unsettling through most of the movie but in the end when you see the actual creature's true appearance it starts getting dull. Because the creeper is very goofy looking. But the first hour is where the movie is. The truck and the guy with the hat on dumping the bodies is truly chilling. The part in the church basement was one of the best moments in the film. If you wanna go see a movie and be thoroughly frightened this is the ticket, but just remember it gets kinda bad after the first hour. "},{"Title":"Shaking -- Not with Fear but with Anger!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can only review about the first 40 minutes of this film because, by that time, I had learned that my date too wanted very much to leave.Those 40 minutes are an unrelenting insult to the intelligence of the audience.  The principal characters behave with perverse incompetence.  They stop or slow when they need to act immediately and rapidly.  They go right when the villain goes right, and left when he goes left.  They are silent when they must communicate, and loud when they must be silent.  They turn away from anything that might inform them, and stare agape at things from which they can learn nothing.Having heard no word-of-mouth about this film, at the start of the film I had been surprised to find the theater so sparsely populated.   That surprise, obviously, did not endure.  Not long into the film, several members of the audience (a large proportion, given the small attendance) began making disparaging remarks openly and loudly, as they either shared my outrage or found the utter worthlessness of this film a source of amusement.  When I got up to go demand my money back, I was cheered.  I presume that others followed not too much later. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  News Flash! Annoying teenage/college kids anger demon, get worked up, and one dies...and NOBODY cared!Why, oh, why, do filmmakers continue to pump out this drek? Why do we keep falling for the same old thing?Let's look at the plot/premise  Evil thing (never really explained) kills people and eats various body parts so it can continue its weird existence; 2 kids bumble into its dumping ground (courtesy of some over exaggerated Scooby-Doo like sense of adventure (always a bad sign)); and the creature comes after them (ho hum.)In the midst of this is a strange telephone call from a psychic who tells them to beware an old song...that's the key that you're in trouble...Add in some guy in a rubber suit (the monster), a vengeful sister, some cops who can't shoot straight, and whammo! Easy summer movie time pickings.Pathetic. I don't care WHO says this movie is good, or suspenseful, or shocking. They are LYING to you. I wasted good money on this, and that was the most scary part.Have you seen the lame ads on TV? Then you've seen this movie's best parts all summed up for you in 90 seconds or less.I wasn't entertained, I wasn't amused, I was however left wondering why we continue to patronize movie producers who clearly are out of their element or out of good ideas.  This one didn't even BOTHER to explain some things.Don't go. Stay home. Rent a good movie instead.  "},{"Title":"one of the worst horror movies to date","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie wasn't even fun to make fun of. it has that blair witch type dialog that makes me consider suicide, they show you the foe in the first half hour, and the brother/sister arguments are boring and stupid. do yourself a favor and NEVER SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Okay if you want to take a nap in air-conditioned comfort.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is dreadful crap, hardly worth wasting ink on.  Maybe if you never saw any of the cheap horror films of the '60's, '70's and '80's, you could find something in here to get interested in.  The first half hour is strident and irritating, but moderately atmospheric.  It's all downhill after that, and the more negative of the comments below are right on the money.Don't waste your cash on this.  Instead, go see THE OTHERS, which is a class act on all counts and genuinely frightening. "},{"Title":"Hey, a scary movie thats actually scary..and good too!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Writer/Director Victor Salva does an all around better then average job with this film. Far better then your homogenized spittle like Scream and What you did Last summer. This is actually well shot with good character development, not to mention actually scares you, even while including humorous dialogue. The only weak part would be the 'lady with dreams' character. I found her irritating and unbelievable. Yet this film is interesting and very entertaining from beginning to end with a story that keeps flowing, plenty of suprises as well as goosebumps. A great film to bring that lil sweety of yours too.  =o) As far as Mr. Salva, he did a film I thought was so underrated with such a beautiful touch, Powder. These two films may be worlds apart in content yet the talent of this man's writing and directing show clearly through both.As a side note...I'm so sick and tired of people harping on this mans background with the law. When Powder came out, some boycott the film due his crime. Hello?? What does film making have to do with his past history or personal life? The man did his time as prescribed by our laws, yet some still want to convict him. What happened to Justice for all? I believe this hurt 'Powder' as a film and the many that didnt see the touching work Mr. Salva created. I'm interested in the talent this man brings to the screen. I can separate his worth as a film maker and judge him solely on that because I'm going to see his movies which have no bearing on his past. If I were dealing with him in a personal sense, then possibly I would proceed with some caution in a specific area. Other then that, let him do what he does and does so well. And dont stifle someone for their past especially since they paid their dues. I look forward with anticipation to more of Victor Salva's work.  "},{"Title":"What did I miss...","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, it only comes out every 23 years, and then for only 23 days at a time, yet it somehow manages to go to the DMV to register a clever little vanity license plate? I can suspend disbelief well enough to accept the existence of the monster, but it is the inane details like this one that ruin a movie that had a chance to be genuinely scary.  "}{"Title":"Worthless piece of trash.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This was quite possibly the worst horror movie I've ever had the misfortune of seeing.  It's not a good sign when you hear nothing but jeers for a movie at the end...The start with, the plot is just plain awful. Two kids get run off the road TWICE by a truck, see the driver dumping what are obviously bodies down a drainage pipe, and then decide they should go and check it out - alone - because someone might be alive.  Sure, why not.The acting is pathetic - especially the male character.  I think everyone in that theater would have loved to have been able to reach through that screen and slap that clueless look off his face.And to top it all off, the only scary part of the movie is that someone actually decided it was worth creating this piece of garbage, and some of us were dumb enough to shell out the 9 bucks to go see it.Please, save your money - this isn't even worth a rental.  I'll give it .25 out of 10, just because they had the decency to kill off that little schmuck at the end.   "},{"Title":"Does Francis Ford Coppola know his name is on this movie?","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First I have to say I can't believe the majority of reviews from this German contigent were favorable. You people are easily duped. SPOILER ALERT This movie had a good start but as soon as the bad guy became a supernatural demon the movie went to hell. Pun intended. The film makers should have kept with the serial killer story line. As soon as the bad guy sprouts wings the movie is lost. The director chooses to steal from a 1/2 dozen other films and even dialogue is copied. Worst of all there is no end to the movie. It just stops. The big question will be did Zoetrope just sell out there name and Coppolas name for a few bucks or did they actually believe in this film. I could see attaching the Zoetrope name if they let Sofia Coppola direct it. Francis must be rolling over in his grave. And if he isnt dead then this will  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but fun","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While it's not perfect, 'Jeepers Creepers' is one of the best horror movies to come along in recent years. Even more importantly, it suggests a shift away from gratuitous use of computer-generated villains and special effects, making limited use of CGI and relying more heavily on good old-fashioned prosthetics and makeup.To give away the plot really would spoil most of the fun, so I will be as vague as possible. The story begins much like 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre', introducing a brother and sister traveling through a rural area in their car. While the opening of the film is bright and daylit, Victor Salva still creates an ominous atmosphere through his visualization of wide open spaces and the understated use of dialogue between Darius and Trish. Before too long, they meet with weirdness when a strange truck tries to run them off the road. It takes off down the highway in front of them at an alarming speed, but they come across the truck again moments later, pulled off the side of the road by an old rundown church. The driver is a tall, oddly-dressed man who seems to be dumping two sheeted bodies into a drainpipe near the church, and after another chase, Trish and Darius make the classic horror movie mistake and decide to go back to the drain pipe and investigate. Trish and Darius soon discover that they have made a very unwelcome enemy. I will say no more!First for the bad. After a promising beginning, Salva relies too heavily on the horror movie clichés that have been alternately mocked and overused since 'Scream' grossed millions of dollars at the box office. Cars that won't start when you need them to, characters who ignore the obvious inclination to run and keep on running, outside individuals who fail to acknowledge that something strange is going on until it is too late, those kinds of things. The movie suffers from a gratuitous lack of plotting, although this is not necessarily a bad thing at all times, and Salva does manage to build a strong atmosphere of dread. But in the total equation of 'Jeepers Creepers,' it adds up to a glaring Achilles Heel the unsatisfying conclusion. I found myself unaffected by the ending because I was not aware that it was happening. I felt for sure there was one final act where Trish and Darius would have to face the Creeper themselves, but instead the movie was just over. Finally, the grisly denouement seemed to suggest that Salva didn't think the audience was smart enough to figure out what the creature was after all along.OK, now for the things that lift this movie above its shortcomings. Salva makes the pacing work, and he also manages to build some real interest in what could have been two vapid college-age protagonists that were more idiotic than sympathetic. Despite their tendency to fall into the obvious traps of these kinds of fictional situations, Trish and Darius remain likable, much like Jamie Lee Curtis's character in 'Halloween.' In fact, this movie references a great deal of classic, visceral horror films 'The Hitcher,' 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre,' 'Duel,' 'The Birds,' 'Gargoyles,' and all four 'Alien' films, just to name a few.The cinematography is way above average. Even the scenes that are filmed at night and in pitch black locations are seething with tangible shadows and blue-black points of reference. I was spooked by the sight of the Creeper landing on the roof of a moving car, defying laws of physics; even though it's been done before, it looks damn good in this film.Finally, despite its reliance on the aforementioned tricks of the trade, the central idea of 'Jeepers Creepers' remains original and fresh. This same film would have been a tremendous bore if it had been about a typical Jason or Freddy villain, but Salva gives us something that we haven't quite seen before (even if its face does look a little like Krueger...). Furthermore, he is not afraid to give us clear views of his monster, but he cleverly disguises his fiend early on, beginning with a figure cloaked by a long coat, glasses and a cowboy hat, and gradually peeling these layers away scene by scene.The movie is good, even if it doesn't quite come off as an exhilarating experience upon leaving the theater. I have an admitted weakness for horror films with style over substance, and Salva's bizarre sets and odd plotting suggest the finer moments of Argento, Fulci, Craven, and many of the aforementioned films from which he draws inspiration. 'Jeepers Creepers' is frustrating in its faults, but ultimately its imagination wins out. "},{"Title":"This mess should have been an X-Files episode.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ------------SPOILERS---------------------------------- WARNING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS Jeepers Creepers could have been a great movie. It had all the ingredients early on. A cool scary song ala Mr. Sandman in Halloween, a psycho hillbilly vibe, a creepy scarecrow monster. Then they had to add in the psychic old woman, the special effects that were not all that special, and the worst gimmick in modern horror history. Get this. Whenever something bad is going to happen the song Jeepers Creepers plays beforehand. I dig the song but why not just put it in the background for atmosphere? Probably the worst part of Jeepers Creepers was that it was not believable, even by horror standards. At least in old horror films like Friday The 13th the kids were stuck out in the woods and stalked like animals. In this film the clueless teens nearly get killed by the movies monster early on, only to go back to his house to find out if it was really bodies he was throwing down that sewer? Hmmm, I wonder? Next one teen ends up falling into the sewer! He sends his sis for help, and darn it she gets chased by the killer too. They survive this and end up in town where no one will believe they're CrAzY story. Do they ever? They just know the killer is after them! Rather than driving away or calling the FBI these two decide two local cops should follow them out to the killers house AGAIN! Jeepers creepers! Two deaths, one via decapitation, later the teens are on the run again. Then they are with the cops again. Then they are attacked again. The monster in this film had so many chances to just pick these two off so many times it is hard to find him scary. Even the over-acting psychic couldn't save these two clueless morons. If either of these two had been in a GOOD horror film they both would have been dead by the time the concession stand closed down. How many times in this film did one of the wide-eyed teens look at the other and say LETS GET OUT OF HERE!? That was what I was thinking after about an hour of this film, which feels long at 90 minutes. For this to have been a scary movie it should have been the teens against the monster. Period. They didn't need the 45 extras or Madame Cleo's granny to explain all the plotholes. The monster should have been a crazy cannable hillbilly and not the lame mutant winged monkey he turned out to be. WHY DID HE HAVE WINGS??? Even the creepy twist ending was predictable. Let me give you a hint, the killer needs human body parts to survive and the song goes Jeepers Creepers Where'd you get those EYES!. If you are like me and hate gorey mess films like this stay away from Jeepers Creepers. Something tells me Jeepers Creepers in the hood isn't far off! "},{"Title":"Painfully Disappointing","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Going into this movie, I was excited about seeing an actual horror film in the theater again, from what I could tell from the previews anyway. As the lights dimmed and it began to play, I could already feel the ice flowing through my veins, in anticipation. I was quickly thrown into a state of utter boredom with a long, drawn-out opening sequence of the two main characters exchanging dialogue. From there, it quickly began a downward spiral of disappointment. The acting left something to be desired. But, this couldn't really be avoided given the horrible script. The story itself started out on a good premise, but seemed as the movie lingered on, that the writers ran out of steam, and just wanted to finish with something, no matter what it was. The special FX were terrible. I grant that it is a nice break from the computer-enhanced FX that we've all come to loathe and despise, but not by much. The main ingredients essential to all horror films, which are responsible for adding suspense, were amplified to an exponential degree in this film, producing many painfully annoying scenes of stupidity. There were some good moments in this film, in particular the end-scene just before closing credits, not so much the actuality of the scene as much as the twist; but it wasn't enough. I gave this movie two stars because though I thought it was terrible, when all is said and done, it is a horror film. But, if I come out of a film knowing that I could write a better script, come up with a better story, and accomplish better FX than what I just saw, then I am disappointed. "},{"Title":"AN OLD STYLE HORROR FILM","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie and I was really impressed. For the most part, the horror movies of today aren't even scary because they all rely too much on special effects. This movie was very original and it kept my interest the whole movie long. As with many horror movies, it left me with a need for a sequel. I hope there is a sequel and I hope it doesn't take 23 years before I get to see one(if you watch the movie you'll know why I'm saying this.) It was definetely worth the watch and even though the actors were unknown to me, they were quite good. Gina Philips is the beautiful and stunning actress who portrays Trish in the movie and Justin Long is great as her brother Darry. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it and I await the release of this movie to DVD. We need more of the old style SCARY movies as opposed to the more fluent special effects ridden horror films of today. This is a great film with lots of suspense. My local newspaper critic gave this movie half a star. However, coming from idiots that praise movies such as Titantic- I'll judge for myself. If they don't like it, then there's a great possibility that I will. We need more movies like this one because everyone needs a good scare!!! "},{"Title":"yup da movie","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Alright first off I'm not here to trash the movie I've seen much worse and much better. The movie its self was pretty good and an original story plot with pridictible horror movie quarks.  This made the movie a bit cheesey in some parts but gave you a little kick when you were about to drift off.The evil monster dude was pretty freaky chomping on people left and right(he was like a demon sort of freak).  The basic consept of the movie was he's a demon he wants to chomp two people and you get to see the hole thing(yeaaaa!) Though twisted and sick in most parts it left me quite well... sick(yea thats it)  I'm NOT going to tell you the ending although you probebly read it in some of the other spoilers or reviews but the ending leaves you quite unfofilled.  Yea you know the felling your like is that the end of the movie? (hesitating to get out of your chair)  Ok to sound like a like a stuck up movie critic I'll give this movie two stars.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, Boring & Not Scary","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I wanted to like this film.  I think Justin Long and Gina Philips have bright careers.  But, sadly, this film was very bland and not worth their time and talents.This film adhered to every gimic, stereotype, and cliche of a teen horror film.  And even though they tried to poke fun at themselves for doing it -- it failed miserably.There are too many things wrong with this film to list.  Wholes in the plot, some questionable acting.  Example a monster that's been on the prowl for decades, has killed over 600 people, and only now does everyone in the area find out about him?!  Why?!  Because if you don't, there's no movie.And, if you're going to make a horror film - the 50's are over - straight monster movies don't work.  You need to come up with some twists and surprises to shock the audience.Save your money, rent TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, or NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD if you want to be scared. "},{"Title":"Stupid and so Predictable  **ALL THE WAY SPOILERS-DON'T READ THIS IF YOU DON'T WANT TO BE SPOILED!**","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SPOILERS WARNING!_________________________________I'M WARNING YOU!-___________I just saw it! (I'M WARNING YOU!!)))))))_____SPOILERS!____For some reason I knew this was going to be a non-scary, typical, boring piece of soap right from the begining when the two friends are driving in the car. Jeepers Creepers---what a predictable and dumb movie! First of all it's not scary, and the whole movie is just melodramatic. Every second there's predictable trouble--like for one, they try to drive away from the monster who eats people------but then-------the car won't start! Oh my, god! How original! I'm so scared! (Sarcasm)   Can you spell YAWN? Second of all, what the hell was the Trish girl running in the car for? I mean, firstly, she sees that deadly brown truck that's always coming after them one night, so she jumps right into  the car! The stupid broad KNOWS that the car has trouble starting---so what the hell is she doing going in the car for? And the big, ugly, scary- monster- coming- after-people-eating-your-flesh--because-they-need-it-for-whatever is quite cliched. It goes back to Freddie Crougar, for god's sake!And why in holy Hell did that monster have wings?WHY?All I'm saying is, people, if you think a scary movie is going to be corny, it most likely is. ESPECIALLY a scary movie. Don't waste your money to see this. Especially if you have a feeling that this is gonna be cornbread. ESPECIALLY for those who are tired of that scary movie sterotype---don't see this garbage!a fifth of  a * out of four stars. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Atmosphere","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think the point of the movie was simply to give us classic horror-flick atmosphere for its own sake.We have a DUEL-like truck from hell, a sewer that's not a sewer, a glimpse into Frankenstein's lab, an abandoned church, ravens, cats, spooky old ladies, macabre visual jokes, and a tall man the likes of which we haven't seen since PHANTASM. It's a devil of a comic flick if you can figure it out.The theme seems to be the idea that evil can smell fear on a person -- and gobbles it up. Maybe the lesson is that you are what you eat. Or maybe it's a vegetarian statement. Or perhaps it's a commentary on our industrial-technological society's blindness to the supernatural in the universe. Heavy, huh?In any event, the film has no tidy resolution, thus making me believe that it exists simply for its own scary atmosphere or it is an amusing parable about something such as I suggested.Being a horror-movie fan, I liked it. It may not suit your taste, but then the movie-makers weren't cooking up something for everyone. "}{"Title":"good setup - bad follow through","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half hour of this movie was pretty damn spooky. The truck from hell, the dark figure throwing bodies down a pipe. Unfortunately, things really start going downhill afterward.Here is the prime example of why the script isn't so hot. There is a sort of surprise ending, that is vaguely alluded to earlier in the movie. The makers are trying to get a sensation similar to Blair Witch project, where everyone in the theatre goes, oh... he was standing in the corner... just like... or in Stir of Echoes, oh... feathers... now i get it. Both, BWP and SOE presented prophecies in a very subtle intelligent way - they bring them up quickly and assume that you will figure out everything at the end (it wasn't that hard to understand in either case, especially not in SOE). Jeepers Creepers kept pounding in the prophesized ending - the horribly scripted psychic says the same thing over and over. I was not surprised at all by the end, I saw it coming a mile away. I just get the feeling the writer has no respect for the audience when they throw in that sort of dialogue.Like i said, the movie really goes downhill in the second half. The monster becomes less spooky and more comical when instead of short, obscure shots from a distance, we start getting a clear view of it when it jumps on top of a police car and kills the driver with a giant axe.... same problem as i mentioned before really - a total lack of subtlety.. "},{"Title":"Sequel anyone?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I heard someone comment that this is the first horror flick in a long time that does it right...and in that, they are right. Suspense, macabre happenings, and more. Did I like it? More yes than no.I was glued to my seat for the duration of the movie, although it was more suspenseful before the identity of the person was revealed.The characters of Trish and 'Darry' were well cast and I thought the customers of the restaurant were a hoot. If you have ever stopped in a diner on a long road, seemingly misplaced in the middle of nowhere, those ARE the people you will see there. As for the ending, definitely a unique way to do it. Made me think that since Freddie Krueger is so well known now that even your grandmother would know him in a crowded room, and Michael is probably moved to get away from his sister, maybe the producers thought that maybe we needed a new sicko to spin a few dozen sequels about.  Seeing this movie is NOT a waste of money, but it could be better spent with all of the great movies released this summer.  "},{"Title":"Finally a REAL horror MOVIE!!!!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If any of you out there on IMDB read my reviews you notice that I despise most modern horror films. I hate the fact that every horror film currently has a focus on perfect looking rich teens who are getting slashed in bloodless fashion. The Scream/Last Summer films are all WORTHLESS as far as horror goes. I would call them teenage mysteries not HORROR. Horror is not supposed to focus that much on the character's lives but rather focus on suspense and scares. Be realistic is any sequence of Scream 1-3 scary or suspensfull? Maybe the opening sequence in the first movie but that is it! Tired of movies about the school newspaper and college film makers, I was about to never watch a new horror film ever again. Then came Jeepers Creepers and Session 9 ( see other review). This movie brought to me new faith in the genre. The film's focus is on the 2 characters and the horror they encounter. The story is basic and centers on horror. I have heard people complain the characters in this film do stupid things. Look at it this way, if they did not do stupid things they would never have encountered the creeper and there would be no movie. Every aspect of this film I loved. From the photography, soundtrak, acting and special effects. Finally a film without over done computer animation. Finally a horror film without an annoying heavy metal and pop soundtrack. It seems to me many modern horror films like Dracula2000 and Blair Witch 2 exist to sell the crappy soundtrack C.D. of rock music. Horror movies are supposed to have atmospheric creepy music. In my opinion horror film is not the source of media to be used to push the latest Tool song or whatever untalented noise band is out there. That only diminishes the film's credibility and shows the producers true motive, to use cinema as a cross sell for other product. I hate that, I'm a purist when it comes to this stuff! Jeepers Creepers reminded me of what was  good about the 70's-80's horror movies. Simple story lines about scary things!  Maybe today's tens are so jaded by incredible video games and MTV that they can't appreciate a real horror movie. Many kids have said already that this movie sucks. Well if you were looking for a teeny-bopper soap opera with Marilyn Manson music in the background, this might suck for you. To those who appreciate true to the gamne genre films, Jeepers Creepers is the answer to your Scream-blues!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing Isn't Even the Word for It.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie with an open mind and came out with an empty head. I was very disappointed with the films structure. Also, the Demon or creature that kept eating the people, he wasn't really introduced with a background or anything. He was just there and evil. That was pretty much his story. The end,also was a disappointment. It just suddenly ended in the worst and corniest possible way it could. I would really not recommend this film. It does have it's jumpy scary parts, but that is about it.  "},{"Title":"The feel good horror movie of the summer.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is easy to recognize this movie's predecessors - It, The Library Policeman, and Duel(1971, with Chester from Gunsmoke).  However, it takes the best elements of those stories and refashions them into one hell of a good story. I love it, especially, the ending. "},{"Title":"Intense, yet unrefined","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two teenagers set out from college on their way home and happen to come across something.  This average horror movie produces some genuine scares but otherwise leaves you with nothing to work with.  The two leads are so annoyingly stupid that you dislike them extremely.  The plot is so contrived that it drifts into a new element ever five minutes.  It seems as if the budget ran out and the last half-hour of the movie is spent wrapping up the beginning.However, the movie shares the same elements of classic 50's horror films. Although out-of-place with most of today's teenage slasher films, it still gives effort to remain scary.  Unfortunately these do not redeem the obviously cliched and ridiculous plot that tries to throw in everything including the kitchen sink. "},{"Title":"High level horror","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has all the seemingly standard horror movie cliches'. A young college age couple riding down an isolated stretch of highway.  The female is the shapely belly shirt wearing type. The male is handsome, wears a tight tee shirt and has rose belly tatoo firmly in place.Thankfully they aren't on road trip. Or eloping behind the backs of misunderstanding parents. Instead they are brother and sister heading home for college break. This spares us the all to common sex scene with a Dawsons creek type tune humming away in the background.As the two ride along we discover them to the classic brother and sister act. The older know it all sister. The disorganized pain in the butt little brother.Along their trip they encounter some seemingly grade B terror concerning what appears to be the sanguinary antics of a texas chainsaw type serial killer. But as with the young couple he's far more than appears on the surface. In fact, the creeper as he is called is down right out of this world.The makers of the jeepers creeper borrow liberally from other great horror minds. There's a definate Tobe Hooper influence over the first three quaters of the movie. The climax has John Carpenter written all over it. The ravens who dwell outside the creeper's lair is a nearly direct lift from Robert E. Howard's classic horror story 'Pigeon's from hell'.That said the film also has plenty original ideas going for it. The battle axe scene on the highway absolutely rules. The Psychic attempting to help the young would be victims is nice touch. And the scenes where the creepers true nature is revealed is down right eye opening!Jeepers Creepers does have its downside. It tends to be uneven and the ending rather predictable once we discover the creeper's true motivation. Still, the film stands out as one of the better horror films of last 10 years or so. It's certainly more engrossing than 'Scream', 'I know what you did last summer' and most of the other teenybopper horror that has smeared the big screen in recent years.       "},{"Title":"Definitely served its purpose!!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  During the first few minutes of this movie, I was in shock that this flat dialogue had actually made it onto the big screen.  Later on, however, I came to realize that this was obviously the point of the film.  I am sure that the average brother and sister use similar phrases and chiched insults, so in a way this made it more relateable.  Furthermore, since the main goal of the film was not to exchange witty quips but to scare the sh*t out of you, the camera angles and special effects were terrifying, to say the least.  The unique scenarios (i.e. the pipe) are a refreshing change from typical horror movies, and I cannot remember a time where I have actually clutched my knees during an entire film.   "},{"Title":"Dont Wait For The Ending","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie was enjoyable and sometimes funny up until the abrupt ending. The story leaves so many unanswered questions that you are left wondering why anything in this movie happened. Absolutely nothing about the plot is revealed in the movie, leaving it WAY open for some kind of sequel, probably to explain what was going on in the first movie. Its a good movie if you want to turn off your brain for an hour and a half, but don't try to make any sense of the plot, because there is no sense in it. "},{"Title":"What the heck?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just saw the movie, Jeepers Creepers about one hour ago.  What the heck?!  I went looking to get scared.  I am the biggest scary movie fan. And I left with a dumbfounded look on my face wondering why I came.  Thank god I used free movie passes.  I didn't like how that the beginning revolved around driving on the road for the first half hour, then going to the pipe. After that, you see/hear nothing about the pipe any more.  That made me mad. What happens to all the bodies?  What does the demon do after he had his dinner?  Small budget film. Lauren "}{"Title":"Clive Barker, I want my six bucks back (or at least three of them)","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  BEWARE, SPOILERS HEREIN!Not horrible but not good.  Jeepers Creepers is significantly better than the other Generation Y teen horror movies (I Know What You Did Last Summer and the like) but that doesn't make it good.  It was OK.  It basically was one of the lesser X-Files episodes stretched to an hour and a half instead of 45 minutes (that includes ads).  What I didn't like the use of the theme song.  There are much better uses of ironically upbeat oldies to induce fear and trembling.  (Little Red Riding Hood in Striking Distance...)  Especially when you find out that the underly-clever ending is tied in too closely with the song.  I thought the ending was pretty worthless and I don't think it's because I have to have happy endings.  By naming the movie after the disappointing last scene you sense that without the dumb ending there would've been no movie.  It was clearly written backwards. Okay, I want to do a movie where the last scene is this kid with his eyes ripped out and the song playing...  Kind of a slim premise.  Also, the psychic (very similar to the old black lady in The Stand) was pretty unnecessary.  Basically an even more annoying version of Tess from Touched by an Angel.  What I did like  the two main actors (especially the kid from Ed).  Though not incredible, they had a little depth and were chosen for more than just their pretty faces.  I also appreciated he lack of CGI.  I think that some of the special effects that looked fake looked that way because the corpses were supposed to have been petrified in some way.  The Karate-like flips that our antagonist manages when avoiding getting run over were cool.  Finally, the show-down in the police station was pretty intense.  (Especially the de-hearted police officer with light shining through him). All in all, until the lame end, Jeepers kept my interest but I will probably never see it again. "},{"Title":"Worst...Movie...Ever","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well unlike every other person on this planet me AND my friends all think this is one of the worst movies ever put to film. The dialogue ranges from Uh huh Uh UH! over and over to Oh my God! repeatedly. That's about the extent of it. You never find out what the creature is. You never learn what drives the monster, you learn NOTHING. Other than that as mentioned by the other reviewer the FX are pathetic. Bodies look a lot like plastic, and they try to blow this off by saying they are preserved. All in all a pretty sad and horrible movie. Too much comedy, not enough scares. If you like to jump (ala teenager) then go see it. If you want anything with a remote bit of quality avoid this like the black death. The ending, while slightly unexpected, wasn't anything to go screaming from the mountaintops. If you want to be surprised, see Seven. If you want a cheaply made movie that obviously tries hard to be a truly scary version of The Sixth Sense but never pulls it off in the slightest, see Jeepers Creepers. And YES the song is in there. It's sad...sad....sad. "},{"Title":"Thrills and Chills with Poor Plot and Bad Acting","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since the movie just came out I will try not to give out any of the plot or detrails.  Jeepers Creepers fullfills its mission as a horror movie since it is filled with many thrills and chills.  The demon and his actions are very original with a weird twist. The two college kids look like they are trying too hard too look scared most of the time.  They commit many stupid horror like actions, give me a break on the lets see whats going on there bull.  The characters have many chances to just run away but instead they watch the demon wasting long minutes of time.  I think that that is way too over done in the horror movies.  The demon does some really discusting things so if you're not into blood shed skip this one and save your $9. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not great","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was overall, a pretty pleasant surprise. It's just vague enough to be good and scary at times. Gina Phillips and Justin Long are surprisingly entertaining. Long is just different enough from his character on Ed to be appealing. The scares are there, but it would be nice to see a horror movie that isn't sequel ready. The ending is supposed to be shocking, but it just irritated me and I'm a big fan of shocker endings. Despite a few situations that no one with half a brain would get themselves into, Jeepers Creepers is decent fun. "},{"Title":"This movie is mostly for the K-9th Grade crowd","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When we have all grown up seeing Halloween, Friday 13th, Scream, etc. it is time that Horror movies understand that the audience knows what to do in Horror type situations.  This movie, as one reviewer already put it, has the sister and her brother, do things that most of us would never do. Even in the annuls of horror moviedom we know what they should not do but yet they do it. This movie was too stupid in that sense. You want to care about someone so that the anxiety of them stayin alive provides tension while watching the movie. In this movie the two p**s you off so much, by doing the obviously stupid things, that you want them to die.  This is not a movie that will stay with you longer than your drive back home. It had potential but the two main characters make you want them to get done. Big screen does not help. You can wait for it to come to video "},{"Title":"I don't get it...","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why is it that on the IMDB page for Jeepers Creepers, Rain Man is recommended for viewing? Is it because Tom Cruise looks like the Creeper? )I just saw it tonight. Let me summarize it as this As I walked out of the theatre at 1130 pm, I was checking the shadows of the parking lot, and I turned on all the lights in my apartment when I got home...<spoiler>And thankfully, the lead character gets his due in this film!</spoiler>All in all, good for a scare. "},{"Title":"YEAAAH!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Been a while since I wrote a review, but this is the one to bring me back to the keyboard....Genuinely creepy, this is the perfect antidote for the I Know../Valentine/Urban Legend virus infecting our movie screens. (I fear the upcoming Soul Survivors) This one doesn't fool around, the Creeper is truly frightening and the whole middle of nowhere setting works wonders. You don't see too much blood, but what you have are two likeable characters running for their lives from one of the most vile, scary villains I've ever seen.  The pace is relentless, kicking in about 10 minutes into the film, and we get some really disturbing imagery (the underground chamber is fantastic). Great weirdo supporting characters, too, with some pretty black humor. Horror fans rejoice, Victor Salva has given us one of the finest since the 80's heyday.  I loved it....If I have one complaint, though, it's the psychic character.  Existing only for exposition, I think it would have been scarier knowing even less of the Creeper.  Otherwise the two leads do a great job, the beast is really cool, and it's the most heartpounding thing in a long, long time.  I'll be avoiding the back roads for awhile....It was funny though to note the reaction of the teeny-bopper filled audience I saw this with.  Throughout the movie there were screams galore, and during one of the best scenes (you'll know it when you see it) EVERYONE was screaming GOOO!!  Seemed everyone was diggin' it. But afterwards all the little Scream-ies  were complaining about the ending.  So---GOD BLESS VICTOR SALVA!!!! "},{"Title":"Maybe There's Hope For The Horror Genre After All...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just got back from seeing a late show of Jeepers Creepers, and I must say that I was pleasantly surprised.   Here's a film that isn't packed to the gills with obnoxious college kids that you're just BEGGING for the killer/monster to catch up with, as well as having an antagonist that manages to display tons of character & personality without even saying a SINGLE word (although he is a little musically inclined...*chuckle*) There are lots of great scenes (the showdown between the killer and the two heroes on the highway, being one) and the killer's origins (although obviously supernatural in nature,) aren't explained to death by having one of the film's characters giving us a detailed family history of who he (it?) is and why he does what he does. I'm expecting that some will find the ending not to their liking, and that's perfectly understandable, being that this film manages to make an actual effort to play AGAINST the norms that we've come to anticipate out of the fright films of the past decade.  "},{"Title":"please help me","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just saw Jeepers Creepers this evening.  Could somebody answer these questions?  (***SPOILERS O MANIA***)How did the Creeper grow those huge wings ?  Guess he ate some large bats?Why (or how) did the corpses' flesh stay 'alive' ?Why did the Creeper cause trouble whenever that song was played?How did the psychic get her powers and what the heck good did it do?How could the two main characters be hip to scary movie conventions yetdo so many stupid things?Thanks for any answers  "},{"Title":"Jeepers almost Creepers","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A movie with much potential, good acting, a horrific villain, but ruined by a mediocre script and some unnecessary--and missing--plot elements.The first 30 minutes of the movie bordered on outstanding, but after that it started a descent and never made a full recovery. The old rusty truck barreling down the road, the slide down the sewer, the discovery of what was there, those irritating squawking crows--good build-up. But after that, it was as if the script writers didn't quite know how to do the rest, didn't quite know how to integrate the story. By inserting a handful of unnecessary elements into the plot, the script undermined the intensity it had built. The psychic lady, for example, was the first such unneeded element. She added nothing that couldn't have been introduced by some other plot device. The viewer just wants to stuff one of the teens' smelly socks into her big fat yapper. She was worthless.The villain was scary, but one never learns much about him, other than what the psychic lady sputtered, about 23 years for 23 days Oh, the horror of the number 23! Whatever. The 23-year thing was one of those unneeded plot elements that was left dangling.The creature's penchant for using a particular sense perception in order to determine what to grab from his next victim, was dumb, as was the reason WHY. The writers could have dreamed up something better than THAT. Yeah, I know--that's how they made the 'where'd you get those peepers' line significant, but come on; they could have done better.   By the time the character makes his full-fledged appearance, it's anti-climactic. He's just another horror villain able to show up anywhere and engage in disgusting acts. Yawn. But what wasn't a yawner was when the 2 teens have the opportunity to run him over. The car-walking scene, his daring them by pacing in the middle of the road, was superb. What WAS that thing? Why did it do what it did? Are there more like it? Where did it come from? Why every 23 years for 23 days--why not a nice round number like, say, 25? Why not every 10? The viewer never learns.The rest of the movie, from the police station scene forward, was a hasty patchwork that attempted to tie everything together, but failed. Too bad. The movie had such potential. Jeepers almost Creepers. "}{"Title":"Ummm .... where have we seen this before ....","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Every year there is a lull between the blockbuster season of summer, and the Oscar season of late fall. That's when movies like this get thrown out. In an obvious attempt to create a low budget horror franchise along the line of Nightmare on Elm Street, Jeepers Creepers Part 1 puts two teens up as bait for the evil incarnate in black trench coat and fedora. Naturally he's impervious to bullets and has skin that matches his truck's paint job. The film runs 99 minutes then ends abruptly. "},{"Title":"Decent horror film but the ending could have better.***","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And I will not give away the ending even though it's nothing to become all excited about.Jeepers Creepers is not a spectacular horror movie but more like a B film in the tradition of let's make a stupid decision and get ourselves hacked up films.I admit these films turn me on because I know that the filmmakers don't take these horror films seriously.Jeepers Creepers is alot to look at and it's basicly a fun horror film and I enjoyed it.But I felt cheated by it's ending(again,I will not say what it is)because the ending fell flat and I was expecting more or better.I think the filmmakers could take lessons onto how to make a real good horror film although they did a decent job.It just wasn't decent enough for me. "},{"Title":"Good horror that could have been great","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Going into this, I figured it would be another weak modern day effort, like I Know What You Did Last Summer and countless others. It turned out to be really good, with some really good scary moments. The creature was good. The truck scenes were great. The truck was a character in itself.The ending was very good. I like downbeat ambigous endings. I'm surprised a test audience didn't screw this up. But what keeps this movie from being great is that it's not treated seriously the whole way through. The teens are playing it straight, but then later, they're casually making jokes. Once horrific things kick in, it should be all serious.  "},{"Title":"...isn't quite a sleeper...(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having followed the work of writer/director Victor Salva from his early debut, CLOWNHOUSE, to the more 'E.T.-ish' POWDER, I know that he has an eye for how great shots are put together, an ear for natural-sounding dialogue and at least some concern about character development. That said, JEEPERS CREEPERS aims to be what most horror movies fail to become...classic examples of the genre that truly deliver the goods. Unfortunately, it falls far off the mark for a variety of reasons.First of all, Justin Long and Gina Phillips make attractive, believable and likeable leads as bickering brother and sister Darry and Trish, driving across country during school break to see their parents. The opening set-up is great, and though the first surprise is a direct lift from both Spielberg's DUEL and THE HITCHER, (which still stands as one of the scariest 'road thrillers' ever made), what brings the movie down its first notch are some of the obviously STUPID things that the pair do.  Of course, if they had done what common sense demanded, this movie would've been a whole lot shorter than ninety minutes.Then, there's our bad guy. Salva is delving into Wes Craven territory here, and the Creeper, as he's billed, makes for one appropriately butt-ugly, nightmarish character. But Salva doesn't give us much background on his mythology what motivates him other than a hunger for things he likes. So, unlike Freddy Krueger, whose legend so firmly established in the first NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET literally gets under your skin and into your dreams, this guy leaves you more puzzled than frightened by his appearance and what drives him. I will give Salva this much where Michael Myers and Jason Voorhees have been given the lamest excuses for their seeming immortality, when you find out the Creeper's source of Energizer-bunny adaptability, it is a doozy, and truly a classic moment for modern screen horror. No one has given us a shock THAT original in a while.Okay, and though I won't give it away, there's that ending. Anyone who has read vintage Clive Barker and Stephen King knows that the most chilling and surprising endings are the unresolved and unrequited ones; where the killer does NOT get his comeuppance, and boy and girl do not walk off happily into the sunset. I don't mind unconventional endings, even ones with a final image that is this grisly. But the biggest shock may be when you discover that the payoff you've been set up for during the last ninety minutes is not something like in N.O.E.S., that will send you running for the comfort of daylight, but for a clever-cutesy punchline that has to do with a vintage 1930's crooner standard to which the title pays homage.I won't say anymore than that, except that the only successfully ironic use of saccharine-sweet songs to punctuate twisted scenes of absolute atrocity has been achieved maybe in three instances by David Lynch in BLUE VELVET, when he began the trend, Quentin Tarantino in RESORVOIR DOGS, and director Kim Manners, in the infamous Home episode on THE X-FILES (back when it was still good).With those cons, and one more the absolute waste of the wonderful Eileen Brennan in a cameo that couldn't have taken longer than a day to shoot, JEEPERS still has a lot going for it the scene in the police station with its echoes of ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13, SQUIRM and even THE BLOB remake; the staging of the action scenes, (though characters still continue throughout to do the stupid things you always hope they won't), and Long and Phillips (who brings to mind Laura San Giacomo in her sex, lies and videotape days), who still manage to grant the film a very important favor lending their abilities to make you care about these characters.  They may not have used the most intelligent strategies in the world for dealing with a supernatural entity, but you still do care about them even to the gruesome end. And that's no easy feat.If you save this for video, you won't be missing anything. But for die-hard horror fans who will realize that Salva has done everything that Don Coscarelli did with PHANTASM thirty years ago, but with a much bigger budget, this is still worth a look. "},{"Title":"A good scare.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you go to a scary movie to be scared you'll definitely want to check out Jeepers Creepers. I was afraid this was going to be another teeny bopper, slice and dice, horror movie. Fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised by an original idea. The ending may leave you asking questions, but it is a better ending than most brainless horror flicks of recent years. Definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"A good start that fizzles out.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to see Jeepers Creepers because I like the genre and it received generally good reviews. The first half to two-thirds of the movie is very good. It paints the picture of a seriously deranged killer seemingly bent on murder for no reason other than the kill.  The Brother-Sister chemistry is well done and the tension builds nicely. There are a few cliches early but I could live with them. But once they get to the roadside cafe the movie fell apart for me. It went from something that felt like it could happen, (albeit very very very unlikely)to tired cliches and a killer I was longer afraid of because of his powers for lack of a better word. He went from someone who could be real aka Henry Diary of a serial killer, to just another horror movie killer that could never exist. I didn't find the ending much of a surprise either, while not completely predictable it really wasn't suprising either. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had potential.  I certainly had high hopes, after seeing the previews and reading some surprisingly favorable reviews.  I will say that there is three-quarters of a great horror flick here.  Writer/director Victor Salva creates an impressive mood and atmosphere of foreboding,  beginning his  story beautifully, building and sustaining suspense before deteriorating into a standard-issue monster movie in the last 20 minutes, with an ending that I found very unsatisfying and leaving things unexplained that might have fleshed out the happenings up until then.  Some found the ending to be daring and surprising, but it left things feeling incomplete to me.  I have nothing against unconventional, even unhappy endings.  It just didn't work in this case for me.    "},{"Title":"A one-and-a-half hour joke with a 5 second punch line (SPOILERS)","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   (SPOILERS WHERE NOTED)  Well, this movie certainly didn't live up even to the moderate amount of praise it has received.  Featherweight characters, no genuine scares . . . very little to recommend it.  There's so much more they could have done with it.  The only positive things I can say about it are that the overall monster concept is fairly creative and (SPOILERS BELOW) I do have to give them credit for having the guts (as well as some other body parts) to kill off one of the main characters at the end.  But, like I said, the entire movie is just a buildup to a five second sight gag at the end. "},{"Title":"The first step towards the right direction...kind of...","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers (working title Swamp Thing Eats or Creature From The Black Lagoon of Organ Eating Rubber Masked Monsters) was at best, a step in the right direction.  The spirit was there, for atleast the first fourty five minutes, but past that, it started to go down hill.  One thing can be said for sure about this movie, and that is, that it was a horror movie. This is most definately not a teen slasher flick.  Unfortunately it wasn't scary.  I don't know really, I'm probably too up in the air about it right now to be writing a review.  In the spirit of Mothers Day or Texas Chainsaw Masacre II, it maintained a good level of comic fright.  But it never delved in to the deep fright that keeps you up at night...instead it went for a couple jumps and startles, but that's about it.  I suppose that's do to the fact that Swamp Thing just isn't scary.  Ok, I guess that's about all I have to say.  It's worth seeing most definately.  But it's not Hellbound Hellraiser II by any means. "},{"Title":"So bad","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was expecting a return to a film like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and instead got a movie that plays like one of those bad creature episodes of The X-Files. Everything in the movie is telegraphed miles ahead - there is nothing original or scary here. The gore is terrible - the effects are sub par at best (and yes I do know the difference between low budget and bad effects). There isn't even enough here to make it laughable. Please, I lost my money to this piece of junk - don't make the same mistake. "}{"Title":"WHAT?!?!?!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ummm, ok, after reading some of these comments, only one thing came to mind...did they see the same movie that I did?!?!  The first third of the movie was actually doing just fine, riding a 6.5 or 7 out of 10.  Then things went downhill from there, and in quite a hurry.  The Creeper was not that frightening in his true form.  If anything, his human form was more ominous.  I also started noticing the implausibility of everything that was going on, and I am not one to dwell on these things during any movie, usually suspending disbelief when I stroll into a theater.  I thought that the creeper must have taken the BRAINS from these two at the very beginning of the movie because they keep on doing stupid things after stupid things. I found myself thinking, Why are they doing that? ABOUT EVERY 5 MINUTES!Here are more ramblings before I forget-It seems like that there was nothing going on during the movie.  Ever watch a movie asking yourself at the end, Boy, nothing really got accomplished..  This is a prime example.  We don't get to see enough of the Creeper...Half of the time I was rooting for the kids to die for their stupidity...The old lady psychic in the movie was pointless, with the exception of having the title make a little sense...AND THE ENDING WAS DISEASED!  I can tell that the people in the theater (about 25-30) kept sitting there, hoping and praying for more; then the credits started rolling, and out came the collective groan from the audience.  There was not really a point that I was afraid of the Creeper, which, of course, is not good for a horror movie...And what was up with the day after the creeper did his thing?  The police station was back to normal, with everyone acting like nothing ever happened!  Where was the SWAT team?  Where was the Army?Well, all in all, I gave it a 4/10.  Like I said, it was riding high at the beginning, but the ending left a bad taste in my mouth.  You want to be scared?  Go rent the Exorcist, Stir of Echoes, Alien, or Event Horizon.  Maybe shell out a few bucks and check out The Others in the theater, probably the most under-rated scary movie that I have seen.  Was JC Worth the 6 bucks I paid for it?  Probably not.  Either go see an early showing or wait to rent it.  Good Premise, poor execution.  A better ending (which I guess is mostly opinion) would have bumped this to above a 5 (6.5?), but when the dust settles, we are still left with a very average horror flick.  "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers...were did you get that Script?!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a stinkfest.I actually thought this would be a step above our recent boredom of typical slasher movies but this actually ended up being a step below.  This deserved to be no more than a made for tv movie on the sci fi channel.  I think the movie might have been a little better if the kids weren't brother and sister and instead lovers--at least then there would have been a possibility of a sex scene (thats just my own twisted view--back to the actual movie).Complete lack of developement on any character and you simply leave not caring, not scared, not entertained, and most certainly very frustrated. There were way to many scenes where that characters committ to the obsurd action-reaction to any of the rediculous situations that makes you want to slap the characters in the face.Don't waste your money, rent Critters (a far more brilliant film) instead and stay at home! "},{"Title":"RETURN TO FORM FOR THE TEENS IN TROUBLE HORROR!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This horror film takes time to do something rather unusual for this kind of movie.Characterize!Yes,these teenagers actually have a little more personality and act out their parts with some authenticity. The film unfolds with a brother & sister travelling home to MOM during high school break.We learn a little about them before the fun starts-and what fun!The first hour is spot on, a sense of terror is suddenly thrown at the audience when a dark,battered but robust van begins a road rage campaign reminisant of Spielbergs Duel.The lucky kids get away,but see the van & its mysterious driver appear to dump a couple of bodies into a pipe in the ground. Guess what?They fulfil the age-old Horror genre error of(reluctantly)going to investigate.Bad goes to worse-the brother falls in the Pipe-Pit to discover the grisly truth! After a few jumps the Madman is on their tale again and....Well go see it Stupid! The only problem is that the film attempts to explain,via a convenient placed Psychic,the awful truth.Its a little lazy and not very convincing at this point.Why explain the mystery at all?It destroys the terror of the film and moves it into bog standard Demon territory.A little more work on the third act & a bigger budget would have made this an absolute corker! Still,well worth seeing over Scream 6 or Valentine anyday of the week. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly mundane","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Several people told me this was the most original movie of the year, so I was surprised to discover it's just an ordinary, everyday, derivative, predictable teen horror.The biggest problem for me is that I really couldn't care less about the two kids getting killed the boy was stupid from start to finish, and the girl lost all sympathy when she came up with that awful line about 'this is the point where in a scary movie someone would do something stupid' (ah, self-reflective post-modern humor she couldn't die fast enough for me after that). Otherwise it just was a collection of standard horror cliches with the odd little twist here and there.And what was that subplot with the psychic (Mrs Exposition, I presume) all about? What did that add to the movie, other than providing an excuse for the phone call, and a sadder excuse for the title?Seriously, maybe I'm missing something here, but what was so great about this movie? What was in there that I hadn't already seen done better in Duel, Alien, Hellraiser, and numerous other past horror movies? I don't get it.  "},{"Title":"Eye-Popping Horror!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSEver want to see the world through someone else's eyes? That's something we say everyday, like walking a mile in another man's moccasins. Jeepers Creepers takes things a step further. Ever wonder what it's like to breathe through someone's else lungs, or talk with another guy's tongue? The Creeper doesn't have to wonder. He knows. He is what he eats.Jeepers Creepers is the story of Trish (Gina Phillips) and her brother Darry (Justin Long), who are driving home from college along the scenic route. Before long, their leisurely drive is disrupted when they are threatened by an aggressively-driven old truck with a freaky paint job, blacked-out windows and a license plate reading BEATNGU (be eating you -- get it?). The truck veers to the other lane and shoots down the road, leaving them alone.Soon after, they spot the truck parked outside an old, deserted church. They become eyewitnesses to what could be a horrible crime The driver is dropping what looks like sheet-clad corpses down into a large drain pipe sticking out of the ground. The siblings move on, but curiosity gets the better of Darry, who insists they turn back to investigate. This is an excellent scene, as most movies would offer no explanation as to why they'd do such a dumb thing. When Darry says to Trish, What if someone is still alive in there? What if it were you?, you can honestly relate to that, and think maybe -- just maybe -- you'd do the same. When they return to the scene, the Creeper's truck is nowhere to be seen in the vicinity of the abandoned church. So Trish and Darry proceed with little caution, leaving their car right out in the driveway, in plain sight of the road. When Darry peers down the drainpipe, he -- surprise! -- falls headfirst into the inky darkness. Here is where the story really kicks into high gear and keeps the tension on full-bore.Jeepers Creepers might be called derivative by some, but I saw it as a real homage to the what has gone before in the horror genre. The chase scenes are remeniscent of Duel; the bloody scene set in backwoods police station may remind you of Assault On Precinct 13; and the killer himself is a Frankenstein of everything from Leatherface to the creatures in Gargoyles. Rather than trying to come up with something new under the sun, the writer/director, Victor Salva, takes our favorite, most beloved terrors and gives them to us just the way we want them. He doesn't just whet our appetite, he feeds our gruesome hunger. The action quickly takes you right into the eye of the storm, revealing the true nature of the beast little by little, and not shying away when it comes time to see him. That's not to say Salvo doesn't lead us into a game of blindman's bluff now and again -- but his fakeouts really work.I don't know if the Creeper will take his place among such horror icons as Leatherface, Michael Myers or Jason, but I think he has all the goods. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and in the world of horror movies, this freak is one hell of a looker. Kudos to the makeup effects guy, Brian Penikas, who gives us an eyeful without falling back on a lot of obvious, high-tech CGI. While both of the leads have little on their resumes, they do a fantastic job on not only looking scared, but making you believe they are scared. One thing I liked about the characters is that they are modern-day young adults who have obviously seen a lot of horror movies (as one of them says, You know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it? Well, this is it!), they don't come off as smarmy or wink-at-the-audience self-aware. I liked the fact that their dynamic is as brother and sister, not boyfriend and girlfriend. Also, there isn't the cliché T&A, and the obligatory couple-having-sex-gets-killed scene. The director brings a fresh approach to the genre (ala Clive Barker, who writes and directs some of the scariest, most twisted horror ever produced). I thought the cinematographer, Don FauntLeRoy, did a great job in working with the darkness, shadows and light, balancing it all. He also presented some interesting bird's eyes views and did a particularly nice job on the one of the major scenes in the film, the hit and hit and hit and run sequence? let's just say that somebody gets run over, big time. No glancing blow here -- the driver of the car is really out for blood. Not much is left to old mind's eye, either? you get to see everything in all its glory. (There's another horror movie out now, The Others -- which I think is a far superior film, overall -- that shows you nothing? but I can appreciate both styles, as can most true fans of this deliciously diverse genre. It's nice to devour two such treats, a juicy fast food burger and an elegantly prepared filet mignon, in the same month.)The song Jeepers Creepers is played to great effect (though most of the general population probably doesn't remember the 1930's hit), I would have liked to have seen Salva have more fun with the musical score. Perhaps the budget didn't allow for it, but it would've been cool to feature The Stones' The Girl With the Faraway Eyes, The Who's Eyesight to the Blind, or the Frank Sinatra (aka, Old Blue Eyes) version of I Only Have Eyes for You. And, while not exactly campy, there is some measure of humor in the story? though your chuckle will probably be more that of a tension releasing sort than a truly amused one. We haven't had a horror movie like this for a long time. If you'd give your eye-teeth for an old-fashioned, balls-out, creature spooker, Jeepers Creepers is the one for you; a sight for sore eyes, you might even say. (Well, you probably wouldn't, but I have no shame.)  "},{"Title":"A very promising start with good ideas later wasted","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to see Jeepers Creepers at the Fantasy Filmfest in Cologne, Germany. Although Jeepers Creepers has a good start and promising ideas, the movie can´t fulfill all it could have been. You will never get bored watching this movie, especially the first third is really good, but then it turns out to be just another monster movie.How much more terrifying would this movie have been, if the story was halfway imaginable? The silence of the lambs or Se7en are so frightening, because you can imagine that something like that could actually happen. In Jeepers Creepers this is obviously not possible. The plot is far too unreal.If you want to see this movie, rent it on DVD (later this year) and enjoy some (admittedly) good laughs and moments together with friends. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There haven´t been many scary horror-movies in the past years and since Scream, they weren´t original, either. But Jeepers Creepers will change it all. A crossover between monster-movie and true-crime-cinema, the great thing about this one is, that it comes off with what I would call a short-story-plot. It starts with no exposition and puts the viewer right in the middle of some gruesome goings-on. And when the movie end after 90 minutes with one of the most bitter, scary and unusual endings I´ve ever seen, you are surprised that the movie is already over. There are no boring dialogues, useless explanations of things that should be left unexplained, or hip, post-screamesque in-jokes. And, hey, no stupid teenies at all! The direction by Salva is tight, fast and really inspired. The opening minutes use techniques and motives that resemble Night of the living dead, Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Steven Spielbergs Duel. A great movie with nearly no flaws. -If you wanna see something different, this is it. "},{"Title":"Get to hate the good guy","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As it said in the preview This would the moment in a scary movie where you do something really stupid and everyone hates you for it.....This happens all the time in this movie, the scary parts are really predictable, however they are so good, that you still jump in your seat screaming!Although I personally found the identity of the bad guy really disappointing, I think it is a real must see, it's funny, it's entertaining and you really get to hate the good guy =;o) "},{"Title":"Not your average scary movie!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went watching Jeepers Creepers at the Munich Fantasy Filmfest and it turned out to be a total surprise. Darryl and Trish - brother and sister - both on their way home on a highway. Suddenly they get chased by an old truck. After some time the truck passes until they see it again later on standing on some street aside from the highway along with it's driver dumping something into a hole as they pass by. A bit later on Darryl gets the idea to check out what the man actually dumped and Trish replies You know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it? - Well this is it...! This film got it all Scary and a tense atmosphere from the beginning till the end, some of the best shockers I've seen, even a few laughs and a totally unconventional ending for a movie of this genre. "},{"Title":"Had a number of good parts, but its flaws are in the most essential areas of necessity","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Every horror franchise has its issues, whether it be a lack of attention to detail or clichéd writing there's usually something a horror fan will expect to happen at least once during the running time. Unfortunately like a lot of other genres, these tropes end up making these films too generic in most respects resulting them in either being a one-time watch or possibly not even finished. For director Victor Salva, although this is not his most critically acclaimed piece, it is probably the one that sticks with him the most. For what is given, it's actually not a bad film at all. Regrettably though, it has writing issues that if addressed, could have made it more entertaining than it already is. The story is about a brother and sister heading home from spring vacation through a rural community when they witness a man dropping what appears to be a body down a giant shoot. Curiosity gets the better of them and soon enough, what they go looking for ends up following them.What distinguishes this cautionary tale of minding your own business from other horror films is that its writing contains very little, if none at all of the usual horror tropes. As stated before the main characters are brother and sister. That already is a big difference from other films. Most plots rely either on a group of people (as fodder for the killer) or focus on only one person. Also the people who are killed are not the same either. Even the jump scares aren't as obligatorily noticeable. This is a game changer because a lot of generic horror films are still produced this way and these kinds of antics get old really fast. Now if only Salva was able to fix the rest of his script, then this would've been some horror film. For one thing, the brother, Darry (Justin Long) and Trish (Gina Philips) are not exactly what you would call the most likable of protagonists. It's not that the audience would despise them but they don't exactly cooperate well nor do they have the best of attitudes. I mean yeah, siblings bicker sure, but there's no scene that shows their softer side so it's hard for its audience to fall behind the main characters. And personally, Justin Long has the doofiest shock face.The other parts of the writing Salva forgets to elaborate on is the exposition to the antagonist and clearing up other reasons. Along their travels, the brother sister duo meet a psychic named Jezelle (Patricia Belcher) who has the ability to see visions into the future. Mind you she's been having these trances for several years and she has no clue why she has them. Ummm,...okay. As for the antagonist known as the creeper (Jonathan Breck), which kind of honestly he is, the reasons why he kills is explained but why he doesn't, goes unexplained. Plus, he has a grotesque side hobby that involves something along the lines of preservation. What exactly is it for? No idea. Since Jezelle is the only one who even knows about the creeper (and for so long) how come she knows so little? She's literally the creeper's creeper. Writer/director Salva could've went into more detail on this but didn't so this doesn't exactly help with fleshing out the villain's backstory.Aside from this however, the rest of the film will manage to keep its audience's attention. The most effective part to this film's credit is in fact, its creep factor. The idea of knowing that someone is always following you and wants something from you (and you don't know what it is) is beyond unnerving. Plus after seeing what he does with his victims, who would want to stick around? As for the gore aspect of this horror feature, it exists but it's not abundant like one would expect it to be. The good thing is that Victor Salva ensures that certain in scenes when the creeper attacks is not what a viewer would normally predict. The director of photography belonged to Don E. FauntLeRoy who handled each scene nicely by giving it a grainy feel like that of Daniel Pearls' work from Tobe Hooper's The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974). I am curious as to why it's always in the middle of nowhere that crazy people exist. Why is that? Why is it always the rural communities? Can people really go mad out there that easily?Bennett Salvay brought the film score forth. Although much his tracks are anonymous sounding with no real signature, there are a couple that demonstrate Salvay is a competent composer. This mostly belongs to the themes surrounding the brother sister duo or other family related subplots. However, his other tracks are just drudging brass instruments, which emphasize the dread headed their way. But even with this, the tracks do help elevate the tension to an intense level because as said before, director Salva doesn't have a script with your everyday horror clichés. There is also one more piece of music that is creepy and that is the actual jeepers creepers song from the early 1900s. This is used as a motif for the creeper himself. Because the song sounds so jolly, the fact that its being played with a dark character is, well,....creepy.Sadly, most of its writing doesn't explain much about its antagonist and the main two protagonists aren't exactly the most enjoyable. However, everything else from its special effects, violence, creep factor, music and cinematography work well together. Its screenplay even contains a number of original ideas that don't follow your regular horror films. "}{"Title":"Insufferable","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" How exactly did this even spawn a sequel, much less an attempt at a franchise? There are some creepy moments, but overall it's not creepy, scary, suspenseful, or least of all amusing or entertaining. None of the characters are likable, the story is incoherent and incomplete, and there's no sense of fulfillment -- in any way -- by the ending. The sister character is completely insufferable and obnoxious, more than any other character in the whole film. Why exactly was she set up as if she were some sort of heroine? Oh, it's because these by-the-numbers 'horror' films always have to have a 'final girl', even if they serve no other purpose and do nothing to further the plot; there always has to be some bit of totty to reach the end of the film, for some reason.The whole thing is really regrettable, and above all it fails because, most inexcusably, it's stupid. It's not clever, stylish, witty, or any other such quality that a slasher (or more accurately a monster movie) should be. It's disappointingly asinine and, without any characters to evoke sympathy, there's not the slightest concern for their welfare which would cause tension and fright. In fact, the only real emotion cultivated is that of disappointment, both by the idiotic ending and the hideous journey to reach it.This is a disappointment, not just as a horror film, but as a film period. "},{"Title":"well done horror","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bickering brother and sister, Darry (Justin Long) and sister Patricia Jenner (Gina Philips), are driving home cross country from college. Suddenly they are harassed by a rusty ugly truck. Later on they see the truck at an old church where the driver seems to be dumping bodies into a drainage pipe. The truck races out and runs them off the road. The truck continues on, and Darry convinces Patricia to go back to investigate the pipe. What they find there sets off a series of horrors and killings.This is a well done horror movie. Victor Salva has created a new evil in the movie universe. The first part is mostly just brother and sister interaction. Long and Philips have great sibling chemistry. They just feel like people who have known each other for all their lives.The major problem I have is the motivation behind going to look for bodies. It's way too crazy to go back to the house of horrors if you don't have to. The sister was completely right. They are better to try to find some cops. They got run off by the truck, so the cops would have to go to the church to investigate. There could have been others at the church. It's more than the usual 'Don't go down there!' complaint.I'm glad that they finally got the cops. Usually the cops never get call in these kinds of horror. It does lead to a well made series of kills by the monster. I wish the monster could look better, but it's pretty good for a B-movie horror. Both parts of the movie work on their own terms. The first is much more atmospheric. The second is more traditional run and hunt. If only they could set up better why the siblings went to investigate the church in the first place. "},{"Title":"Great horror tale with lots of scares","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One for the genre heads ... this is pure horror with a beast of unknown origins and a provenance explained during the movie. Leave your plausibility hat at home - it'll only ruin the escapist pleasures of it. I particularly liked the repetitive use of the Jeepers Creepers theme tune ... gets scarier every time you hear it. Dialogue is sharp and simple lampooning of rural cops/people is avoided - creating a real world you can believe in while fearing the monster in the dark. Why it's chasing the brother and sister hero combo we're never quite sure? Somewhere between the urban legends of the vanishing hitchhiker and missing boyfriend. Loved it "},{"Title":"worth a rental but not much else","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" okay so this movie started off looking like it was going to be better then most of the trash that calls itself horror, and it is pretty captivating or the first part, especially the scenes down in the pipe, and contrary to popular complaint the villain/monster doesn't really look all that bad, definitely a step in the right direction compared to most of the syfy drivel. Sadly the captivation dies rather quickly and descends into stupidity. like most of the other negative reviews state, there are a lot of things that are never quite explained, such as a certain psychic woman who appears out of nowhere and doesn't really have any point in being there other then to explain a few pointless things. By far the worse part of this flick is the ending, you have to see it to believe it, just don't get attached to the characters and it wont bother you as much. all in all this movie starts off great but ends up being below average. worth a rental if your in the mood to rip on something. "},{"Title":"Good classic horror with quite a few jumps and scares","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now, this is very good horror movie for the opening to 00's it is filled with a lot of scares and jumpy moments , to give your heart a pounding but not scaring the hell out of you. The story line is good and the jeepers creepers song was a good creepy song put into the movie. IF your from the age of maybe 8-11 and watch this then it would probably give you nightmares for weeks but any older then you'll probably get a little scared but not massively. The monster i really liked , being able to grow what it has eaten made this monster extremely fascinating, however was not the most scary looking of things. Good acting through out the whole movie but effects on the monster could be improved worth taking a look at , a moderate horror film good for a teenage sleepover or adults who want a quick adrenalin rush but not really for kids!6/10 good horror film. "},{"Title":"great beginning, cheezy middle, scary ending.","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember when i first watched this movie i was about 8 years old and i was absolutely terrified. The beginning of the movie starts off very good. It is a very intense thriller that has you at the edge of your seat. Though as the movie progresses it gets sillier and sillier.This movie is about a brother and sister who are travelling the back country way home. While driving they are harassed by a old van honking and trying to ram them. The van passes but later down the road they see the van dumping what looks like bodies down and old pipe to a church. They race off with the van quickly approaching them.This movie i thought was very good in the beginning. It had you guessing and had your heart racing but as it went on it got cheezy. In my opinion a movie is scarier when you don't see the monster in full detail that way it doesn't look cheezy and stupid. In the beginning this movie was sooo creepy because you could not see fully what the thing was.Overall i thought this movie was a decent horror movie. It had a wonderful start and if you make it through the cheeziness then you will be in for a treat with one of the creepiest endings ever to be put into a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Brings in a new player to the game of slashers","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Besides being full of depressing, heartbreaking, and possibly life changing events, the year 2001 was a great year for films. Mostly horror films. Donnie Darko, Joy Ride, and Jeepers Creepers all surfaced and held a cult following years later. All three are incomplete trilogies with one sequel branching off of them. And all are full of life and scares the first time around. With repeated viewings the scare factor gradually decreases, but the enjoyment and the memories are still there.Jeepers Creepers was a film that I remember from my childhood very well. The first and the second films etched themselves inside my head and brought years of haunting memories. Watching them years later, they aren't as scary, but they still have a tiny nostalgic twinkle when I catch them on TV.Focusing on a brother and sister (Long and Phillips) returning home for spring break, Jeepers Creepers introduces an inhumane figure into the world of horror. He comes equipped with bat wings, a Freddy Krueger like face, razor sharp teeth, and a cloak and hat to top it all off. They call him The Creeper (Breck). The mysterious figure tries to run the two off the road on their journey home blaring its horn and swerving intensely.Later, they see him dump a body down a pipeline and, with the help of a dream haunted old woman, they begin to piece together the creature's habit and purpose on the planet. I won't spoil it because it's something that is uncovered towards the end of the film.The first half an hour is very intense, leaving so much to be accomplished. It comes off very uneasy and has a setting that can leave someone truly helpless. They are driving through the countryside. We all have. There isn't a damn thing for miles. Cell phones, in 2001, weren't as powerful as they were now leaving the characters in more of a quandary. So much happens in the eventful beginning. We get a big scare, and character development. Two things horror movies in present day lack.Compared to recent films like remakes and some mildly entertaining new pieces of modern day horror, all we get are pointless names of a character. What good is a name if nothing else is provided. Usually all we know is that the group of idiot, lame-brain teens who love to go out in the woods in the dead of night to smoke, drink, and have sex. Whatever. We don't care about them, and sometimes, in a wonderfully sadistic way, we'd like to see them die just because we are sick of them. Jeepers Creepers at least gives us a reason to be concerned for its leads.By the end of the film, it went a little downhill with the goofy backstory on The Creeper and it became more of somebody else's movie. It takes the cleverness and charm that made the two leads likable and makes them a little less heroic and daring. But because the beginning, the music, the characters and the villain are all so greatly constructed, it's a tad bit acceptable that the ending isn't on par with the beginning. Regardless, for a little horror film, it goes a long way with some events and scares.Starring Justin Long, Gina Phillips, and Johnathan Breck. Directed by Victor Salva. "},{"Title":"Tense Road Trip Gone Awry Slasher Romp","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed Jeepers Creepers, a film that made its mark at the box office during a time when there seemed to be a lot of road trips gone wrong features churning out from studios. Where normally a group of teens would be stalked by a suitably scary psycho in an isolated country setting, writer/director Victor Salva decides to deceive his audience and go down a much darker, disturbing road.Jumping right into the action, Salva pits a brother (Justin Long) and sassy sister (Gina Phillips) against a maniacal trucker who runs them off the road about five minutes into the film. Just when you've caught your breath, the siblings happen to pass the psycho again, this time spotting him throwing a body down an old pipe next to a decrepit church. It's at this point that (a.) the film is scariest and (b.) the screenplay is smartest. Like Wes Craven's classic Scream, the characters directly reference themselves as being in a horror movie, in an intriguing exchange where they debate whether or not to check out that nasty old church and see if someone's alive, or take a queue from scary movies and just get out of there.Seeing as this IS a scary movie, we all know what they end up doing, and this sets in motion a horrifying chain of events as they become targeted by a monster that's best left to your discovery, viewer, rather than giving away all the fun in this review. What I will let you know is that Salva keeps the film brimming with tension and shocks, right up until the rather clumsy and offbeat ending sequence. Jeepers Creepers is one of the best examples of that sub genre of road trips gone awry that seems to have been started by the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Salva infuses energetic visual style and imagination into this violent monster movie, even at its most unbelievable moments. "},{"Title":"Just OK.","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really wasn't too impressed by this horror movie, though it was still likable enough, for not taking any of the obvious directions with its story.It all begins as a normal horror movie, with teenagers in the main lead. It really doesn't have much originality to it and the movie 'borrows' its elements heavily from other genre movies. Yet the movie manages to not become the standard average horror movie that we've seen so often this modern day and time. The movie is less exploitation like than normal horror flicks and it doesn't feed on its scare or gory moments. The approach works rather original but of course it also makes the movie less exciting and takes away lot of the tension of it all. So its strongest point also becomes a weak point for this movie.Guess that most horror fans will still be disappointed with this movie overall. The movie just doesn't handle its horror elements very well and the movie made me think about how director Victor Salva just doesn't seem suitable enough for the genre. It had a rather good and potential scary premise and it does have a good killer in it but it just doesn't know how to handle it right. The killer, or monster as you will, gets featured quite a lot and is shown fully on screen, which just makes him less scary after a while. Also its story doesn't help much to make him a real good scary horror character. It's pretty silly how he lets the two main characters live throughout the movie, despite his obvious superior physical skills. He could had killed them at basically every given moment throughout the movie, without them ever knowing what hit them.It's atmosphere is also constantly too dark, at least during its second halve. I'm sure I would had liked the movie much better if it was more like its first halve, that was still mostly mysterious and you didn't knew what was going on or who was the person behind all of this and why. Besides the movie was light as well back then, so I could see better what was going on all as well.Can't really say that I can recommend it to the lovers of the genre but it's still being original and likable enough in parts to still consider this a watchable movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Brain-Dead Garbage","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The only thing more appalling than this movie itself is the knowledge that anyone actually enjoyed it. I can only assume the people who rate it highly were drunk, or stoned out of their minds, and they thought it was a comedy. Perhaps if I'd been intoxicated enough, I too might have been able to laugh at it -- but it would have taken a LOT of intoxication to overcome such an insultingly stupid movie.It was 90 minutes of relentlessly bad acting (both over- and under-), glaringly showcased by trite and unimaginative direction, and even further spoiled (to whatever extent that it was possible) by pathetically low-budget special effects. And all in service to a plot so incoherent and devoid of purpose that even the characters themselves don't appear to have any good reason to go on living -- and I couldn't even feel appropriately apathetic about their meaningless lives, because my loathing for the movie grew more and more intense with every passing minute until (about halfway through the grueling torture) I ardently wanted every single character in the movie to DIE.And not in the GOOD way, either. Not in the way that one casually despises the horny teenagers in a standard slasher flick, and secretly delights in watching Jason/Freddie/Michael/Whoever carve them up.In THIS steaming turd of a film, the allegedly-scary Bad Guy -- the Creeper -- is cursorily explained away (far too late in the movie for me to have cared anymore) as some kind of ancient demon who comes back (from where?) every 23 years. Or something. Anyway, this ancient demon thing drives an antique truck around the countryside (where does he purchase fuel?), collecting the corpses of a seemingly unlimited supply of victims (whose disappearances apparently go unreported and unnoticed by any authorities), and he uses those corpses to rebuild his own body.Why he NEEDS to do this is beyond me, since it is repeatedly demonstrated that nothing can kill him, but that's only ONE of the many things the movie never bothers to explain.Oh, and evidently he hunts by scent, and likes the smell of fear. Which is why he spends a great deal of the movie skulking around, sniffing things -- such as the insipid male protagonist's underwear, for example.Nope. Not kidding. He tracks the protagonist to a truck-stop/diner/irrelevant location full of irrelevant extras, for the sole purpose of breaking into the car and rooting through luggage to find the protagonist's underwear. This is presumably to get the scent, yes? So the Creeper can hunt him.But, uhhh... if the Creeper was able to track the insipid male protagonist to the truck-stop, then why did he NEED the scent? And even if we ignore that... once he HAD the scent, surely he knew the kid was right inside, yes? He certainly managed to use that scent to track the kid everywhere ELSE in the movie. So why didn't he just march on into that truck-stop and kill the punk -- and everyone else in the place, too? Was he afraid of all the beer-bellied truckers? If so, WHY? He later attacks an entire station full of heavily-armed policemen to get the very same kid -- killing some prisoners and quite a few of the police in the process, and shrugging off automatic weapons fire without a care in the world -- so why did he NOT simply kill the kid at the truck stop? What was stopping him? The moronic script, that's what. The talentless hack writer/director still had about half of his obligatory 90 minutes to fill -- so the otherwise implacable, unstoppable Creeper runs away from the truck-stop, just because a waitress screamed at the sight of him sniffing underwear in the parking lot.The whole miserable movie is FULL of inexplicable, time-filling idiocy like that.Why does the Creeper try to run the insipid male protagonist and his sister off the road in the beginning, yet FAIL to kill them right then and there? Because if he did, they wouldn't have 85 more minutes of crappy movie to feed you.After they've witnessed him dumping bodies at his Evil Creeper Lair, and he tries to run them off the road a second time, why does he FAIL -- yet AGAIN? Because there were still 80 minutes of crappy movie to fill up with MORE pointless stupidity.Why do the insipid male protagonist and his sister go BACK to the site of the body dumping instead of heading straight for the police? Well, because that's what people in stupid horror movies DO, yes? And when the insipid male protagonist has stupidly fallen down the body-dumping chute into the Evil Creeper Lair's basement, and is admiring the collection of corpses, why is his sister just lounging around up top looking not the least bit concerned about her brother's predicament? Indeed, why does she look bored and disinterested? (Well, okay, THAT one is easy to answer.) But why is she standing way over at the far left side of the screen, with all that empty, unfocused background on the right? Well, because the talentless hack writer/director thinks he's clever, and he's about to... CUE THE TRUCK! 90 minutes of that rubbish. Appallingly stupid, incoherent, PREDICTABLE rubbish.The only movie I've ever seen (in color) that was WORSE was Battlefield Earth. "}{"Title":"Good monster movie","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a good monster horror movie.It boasts a new monster, and we learn virtually nothing about its origins or habits. But this doesn't matter - it is implacable and unstoppable. It's nasty to look at and it kills people horribly. It's a good monster (in terms of monsters in horror films, that is!).It is pursuing a young brother and sister up and down a remote stretch of highway (and mind the perils of sticking your nose in where it's not welcome!). Given the relatively limited sphere of activity, suspense is maintained very well.The cast all performs up to standard, and Justin Long handles the lead well. "},{"Title":"forget this one,check out the superior sequel instead","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i actually commented on the sequel to this movie,thinking i would never bother to write a comment on this one.the sequel is actually not bad,but the original is not so good.i found it boring and mean spirited even for a so called horror movie.it doesn't really make a lot of sense either.and i found it depressing as anything.plus,the ending was just ridiculous.i know the sequel didn't necessarily make a lot of sense.but it had other positives going for it,like excitement,and a really nifty looking creature.anyway,i pretty much hated the original,and although it's not the worst movie i have seen,it is pretty bad.my advice,skip this movie and check out the sequel instead.for me,Jeepers Creepers is a 3/10 "},{"Title":"Good, tense film","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a great fast paced horror movie, which, unlike a lot of films, does not give you the time to relax back into your seat! It is not slow going at all, and you do not feel the characters are safe in whatever scene they are, which means that the audience is constantly on edge.My only complaints would be that the Creeper is (looks wise) a little bit corny and has been seen before in other films- I think that he could have been done a lot better, and could have been made to fit in with the story more.Also, in the first half an hour I am constantly shouting at them not to go there or do that, and just get the hell out of there! However, it is a great film, and I have and would watch it again (though maybe not on my own!). "},{"Title":"Pretty Much a Standard Teen Slice & Dice Movie","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We only know that The Creeper comes out every 23rd Spring for 23 days...nothing more. We don't learn what it is or why it is or why every 23 years. There is simply no development of the story of this ghoul. In this movie we see it kill, apparently for some body parts, but we're not told why. We see that it likes to sew bodies up and together, but again we aren't told why. We learn that the creature takes a liking to certain people and hunts them down to take them...but again, we never learn why it selects them. Sometimes the creature seems invincible, like when people are shooting guns at it at point blank range, but yet it was at least temporarily injured when struck by a car...seems somewhat inconsistent to me. This movie creates a lot of questions in the viewer's mind and never satisfies them with an answer. It is not particularly gory, its just unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Starts out great, falls apart at the end","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one scary road film, I'll say that. In it, a brother and sister (well-played by Justin Long and Gina Phillips) are driving home from college to visit the folks for the summer. The brother spots what he thinks is a serial killer, but it turns out to be something even worse. Then the killer discovers them and they must run for their lives, while trying to find someone who believes them. At times, it's like a cross between Alien and Duel. The film created a truly terrifying villain with frightening killing methods, and the small-town southern locations are very well-used, creating the ideal atmosphere. Then the story sputters and stalls. The killer turns out to have super-human strength and might be some kind of animal or alien, but its nature is never explained. And the story, as a result, becomes less and less believable. The final act is truly a disappointment, with a surprise ending that's downbeat without being all that scary. Still, horror/sci-fi fans will like it. "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is supposed to be your average monster-movie but turns out to be a very scary and above all a very entertaining film, whose script is cleverly written and which has some sharp and enjoyable dialogs. The cast is also stunning, especially Gina Philips and Justin Long in the leading roles of Trish and Darryl. Jeepers Creepers provides some terrific pictures you will not forget. Definitely Salva's finest work up-to-date, leaving his poor debut feature Powder far behind. The less you know about this one the more fun it brings, even if there are also some disappointing facts the special-fx-work does sometimes look cheap, but in times of CGI-effects in nearly every two fantasy-movies, i prefer the 'organic' look of old-fashioned-effects, even if one can say that they look cheap. So - see it! It's definitely worth the money. And prepare for an unconventional and surprising end... "},{"Title":"Where did you get the eyes?","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A brother and sister are driving home but they don't take the freeway or the interstate. They take some out of the way back road and you know it's a horror movie. Then the scariest part happens when they drive by that guy on that farm tossing bodies wrapped in sheets down a pipe. That part really gave me the chills. I kept thinking about what I would do if I saw a guy toss bodies into a pipe. Creepy. The brother and sister are stalked by that guy but is he a guy? What is he? With this movie, I was on the edge of my seat because I didn't know when he was going to appear. Then there is that psychic at the police station who tries to help. I know she did. I would have liked to see this movie end much sooner than it did. Should have ended with birds, that would have been nice. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers, one hell of a movie","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Flash back to the old horror movies for a second; blood, guts everywhere, and stuff that would make you wanna grab your popcorn container and puke in it. Now look at Jeepers Creepers, you've got a ugly looking creature, a freaky church, a very creepy truck, and 2 collage students in the countryside, what more do you need? Please tell me.Patricia 'Trish' Jenner and her younger brother, Darius 'Darry' Jenner are on their way home from collage for Spring Break. When all of a sudden a creepy truck with the license plate BEATINGU tries to ram them of the road. Creeped out, they have no idea what the hell the guy was trying to do. While driving again, they drive past an old Church and see a man in a trench coat and hat, the one who almost ran them off the road, dumping stuff down a pipe. To them it looks like bodies so Darry convinces Trish to go back and check it out. After Trish accidentally drops Darry down the pipe, he inspects the lair, only to find hundreds and hundreds of bodies everywhere, on the ground, most of them covering the walls. Scared, he doesn't talk for some time. So they head down to a diner to use a phone. When all of a sudden they get a phone call from psychic. I am not spoiling to rest.This would have to be the best horror I have seen in about forever. It is more of a psychological thriller than a horror. It is a great action too. It won't have you scared out of your seat, but you will be creeped out by the creeper, the truck, the church, and everything else. The suspense was there and so was everything. With two good looking actors leading the film, where can you go wrong?! "},{"Title":"It's good enough for a few scares","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A road-trip turns into a journey from hell for college students Trish (Gina Phillips) and Darry (Justin Long) when they are caught up in a pursuit on a deserted highway. When they discover what the pursuer may have in store for them, the real horror comes to life.Jeepers Creepers is a teen horror flick that takes itself more seriously than most in its genre; it does have a creepy atmosphere and some pretty fine scares, but after the huge hype surrounding its release, it is a little disappointing, but it's certainly watchable.The direction is sufficient, the cast is well chosen, the script is pretty well written and the special effects are effective without ever being great.6/10 "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is about brother and sister Darry and Trish Jenner played by Justin Long and Gina Phillips. Like I said, they play brother and sister who are coming home from college for Spring Break. Like all brothers and sisters do they fight nonstop. That is until they get themselves into trouble and must do everything they can think of to save themselves.This movies is wonderful! The plot is good and the acting is awesome! Everyone should see this film. It may not make you stay up late at night scared to death about what's to come but you will get spooked and your stomach will turn! "}{"Title":"Eye, There's the Rub!","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While I will wholeheartedly agree that this movie doesn't make any real sense out of anything. It has one major thing going for it it has a disturbing, creepy, eerie quality that held me on the edge of my seat through the first third of the movie. The second two-thirds definitely falter in terms of losing the tension of the first part and having to try and explain some of the proceedings in less than convincing fashion - but overall this film rises above(slightly) the other films of its ilk with a bit more something. Part of it is the better-than-usual teen leads. I thought Gina Phillips and Justin Long were both decent actors. There was a genuine bond between the two that transcended to the screen. The other actors were all adequate with Patricia Belcher giving a weird performance of a woman hearing the song Jeepers Creepers in her home and trying to help the two young protagonists. Watch for Eileen Brennan as the cat lady in a small but memorable role. The story is - to be real honest - ridiculous. It has to do with some creature that feeds on fear and uses...well, can't go into too much detail without giving away some major information about the end. The creature is real creepy, especially in the early scenes as he pushes his truck, for apparently no reason, into the back end of the car of the two young kids. Later, the kids see him throwing what looks like bodies in body bags down a drain pipe in an old country churchyard. They see him leave and do what nobody in his/her right mind would do - investigate. What they find is a cavernous room filled with bloodied bodies adorning the walls and floor like some chapel of evil. Things then get dicey when the creepy man comes back. This part of the film is the major strength of this film. It has style, a meteoric pace of tension and surprise and is ever so chilling. Little explanation is needed. As the film builds and explanation IS needed, the film falters and begins to tumult to a lack of credibility. But it does manage to retain some of the style and pace earlier exhibited. This is a teen horror film to be sure, but it is a little different than the others out there - a cut(knoth) above the rest so to speak. "},{"Title":"Love the Creeper!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. The Creeper is awesomely done. This is one of the best done in a long time. The acting was really good, Justin Long did a superb job as Darry he was sincere and very believable. They all did a great job, one of my favorite parts of the movie was when they see the Creeper in the road getting a good look at him. He was creepy, and he was truly fascinating he look eerie and demonic. He has no sympathy for anyone and he's just plain evil. He's funny and has a bad temper. As for the ending it was sad to see darry die, and when it went off you left hoping to see the Creeper again and we do ) "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi-Horror at its finest","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS MOVIE! The Creeper totally gave me chills! Especially since I saw the movie in spring! I noticed some mistakes though. At the Crazy Cat Lady's house the shotgun went off more times than it could go without reloading and it made explosions instead of gunshots. Also I gave it a 9 because I hated the ending. How could they just kill Darry, the best character? They should have killed off Jezelle and/or Trish. They were both annoying and Trish was a bad driver. So...if any of you feel that Darry dying was a crappy ending, please check out my fanfic at Quizilla.com. It's on user xBittersweetSymphonyx. But don't quit on IMDb! This site rocks! "},{"Title":"The best monster movie of all time","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers, directed by Victor Salva.Jeepers Creepers is my favorite monster movie. The story's great and it's very impressive. What can I say about this movie? Huh, nothing. It's just great. Victor Salva have to keep going on this way because he's a really great writer/director. Best monster movie of all time. Best monster of all time. Best monster movie's characters of all time. Best monster movie' story of all time. THIS IS THE BEST MONSTER MOVIE OF ALL TIME. ROMAN SONI. I want to become a great filmmaker like Spielberg, Shyamalan, Hitchcock and Salva. "},{"Title":"the best horror in years","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" maybe some of you will take me for a lunatic if i say that this is one of the best horror movies i've seen in years.let me explainfirst of all we don't have one horror film but threefirst being an obvious tribute to Spielberg's duel,the second is a slasher movie in the good old fashion of such movies as Halloween,Friday the third,and so forth;and the third part is a pure monster movie.and what was the last horror movie without a happy ending you've seen?and of course there's the great cinematography and fabulous use of the background,the way Spielberg did it in duel.another plus will be the screenplay that makes you care about the characters.if you don't find that's enough go enjoy house of wax or some other dull American remakes of Japanese classic horrors "},{"Title":"A real standout!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Impessed with the style and aversion to cliché. First of all, the killer is a good old-fashioned monster, not just some random escaped mental patient. Mysterious, unearthly, parasitic, but a very plausible legendary creature.Also appreciated that the main characters - instead of the usual boyfriend-girlfriend combo - are brother and sister. You really feel that relationship, she even calls him Brat. It's very relatable. They pick on each other and mock, but you can tell they're close anyway. Great sibling relationship between the actors. The creepy Fla. backdrop with its Spanish Moss really lends itself to the dark desolate atmosphere as well.I actually liked the characters - this hardly ever happens to me during a horror flick!Suspense, wacky touches and a great supporting cast add personality.When you know one of them is going to die with that song playing, you really don't want either one of them to suffer that fate, because they come off like real people, not extraneous anonymous teenage victims you want to have killed off.And, to counter a bad cliché, when the sister offers herself up to save her brother, the creature DOESN'T EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE IT! That martyr stuff usually works in this kind of movie! Gives it an emotional, heroic edge... but, not in Jeepers Creepers!This one defies convention, and does it with style! The sequel's really a generic and unnecessary slaughter-fest - don't bother- but the original was truly an original. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, so the movie did scare the crap out of me...For a while. I had 3 main problems with the movie 1. OK, the brother and sister must have been retarded. You don't drive past some freaky looking thing dumping dead bodies in a drainpipe and go back to see if there's someone alive! That is a big no-no...Ah well, typical horror film character for ya...2. Niiice special effects. Yeah freaking right. What, were those dead bodies mannecins(sp?) from Old Navy? sure looked liked it...3. Soo, where did the Creeper get his custom liscense plate? And hat? And clothes? He's a total fashionisto there...The custom liscense plate, what did he do, get massive amounts of temporary(cough) plastic suregery and go get in line? Anyway, the movie sucked. "},{"Title":"A Decent Little Horror Package","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a very tight little shocker that knows how to pull a ton of scare out of most of its scenes. It never goes over the top and the dialog is quite natural. Except for some scenes where the main female character seemed to act on a 2 note level, the entire cast seemed genuinely into what they were doing and fleshed-out their roles well. Even, Eileen Brennan's cameo was never too long to seem out of sync. She was simply a character along the way that gets offed and her scenes are quite scary and effective. Even the photography is top-notch. There was always a sense that something ugly was just off camera. The budget was used well and there weren't too many ideas crammed into the story. Obviously, this was made without too many opinions by committee. Oddly, this film contains the hunkiest police force this side of Central Casting. A lot of fun packed into a little story. "},{"Title":"Where'd you get those peepers? Really scary","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ONE of the best openings in horror and general film history sets up the thrill ride that is Jeepers Creepers. With excellent performances from Gina Phillips and Justin Long as a bickering couple of siblings on their way home for Spring break, terror settles in barely five minutes into the movie.After being run off the road by a scary, beat up old truck, Trish and Darry investigate an abandoned church in the middle of an isolated farmland to discover a deep underground terror. Making a run for it, they find themselves relentlessly pursued by a cloaked madman who may not even be a man at all... but something from your worst nightmares.Unpredictable and masterfully paced, Jeepers Creepers has a very rich, dark atmosphere and lots of frightful twists and turns. With barely any comic relief to be seen, the tension is endless and director Victor Salva keeps The Creeper hidden well until the perfect moment arises to get a good scary look at him. Truly something out of hell, the Creeper is a nightmarish creature that will stay with you long after this creepy little low budget flick ends.With a gory and sad conclusion, the film falters off slightly, but it's so much above usual crappy horror fare that you'll love every twisted minute of it. Beautifully photographed and truly entertaining and frightening, you're in for one tense ride. Jeepers Creepers, where'd you get those peepers? The Creeper is coming after your organs next! ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Horrible with a capital H.....","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was not a good movie. In the beginning I was thinking this is going to be good and I was excited about the rest of the movie. But when the monster stared to make out with the dead male police officer I didn't know what to think. The plot was simply to fantasy for me and I though it was just weird.Another strange part was when the monster had the two siblings together and he started smelling the brother. I mean were they trying to make him gay or something it just did not make any sense to me.Now I have not seen the sequel but I hear that the brother (who somehow strangely in the sequel considering that his eyes were cut off at the end of the movie)is in the sequel. This is just ridiculous. I am giving this move a 2 out of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Pros and cons...","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From the very start of Jeepers Creepers there are non-stop thrills, some subtle and some obvious, whether it be the Duel like chases or the macabre 'Sistine Chapel' discovery. In my opinion, J.C. is a very original horror film and seems to be timeless because as far as I know we never really find out what year it is taking place in it could be the present or it could be anywhere in the range from the '60s to the '80s. The two leads of the film(siblings Trish and Darry)are somewhat likable, giving the viewer compassion enough to come to like and root for them instead of just rooting for the killer, like in most other horror films. The ending of this film is sort of shocking because there is an unexpected death. And the build up towards this death turns in a great climax to a deliberately paced ninety minutes. Much to my disappointment, though, this movie doesn't rely on a high body count which is the polar opposite of what I look for in a horror movie, as do most like myself. In retrospect, the low amount of gore isn't so bad, and it's a nice change of pace from the horror movies that dominated the seventies and eighties. Ultimately, what helped Jeepers Creepers work the most was its pacing. Not too much action at times, but when there was some it was enough. In the end it has some good qualities, and some bad ones. Overall a good balance of both.7/10 is my vote. Forgettable, but fun while it was on. "},{"Title":"Creepy!","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another horror film made by the one who brought Clownhouse. This is very shocking and surprising, because you can't predict what the creature will do, especially when he was driving his truck. I believe this was an original concept, but am I the only one who thinks the creeper is the Bogey Man? I mean the song at the end, was kind of a hint. The scenes that were very disturbing was the scene when Darry checks out the old church to discover bodies and bodies of people who fell victim to the creeper. And another is the one with the phone call when the woman warns them about what's gonna happen to them. And the song she's trying to show them to warn them about it. There were a lot of disturbing scenes and gruesome murders here, stuff that will freak you out. This ain't no slasher flick or Texas Cahinsaw rip, and that's what's good about it. Especially the concept of the monster in the movie, it gets to eat after 23 years and for 23 days. But I wonder how they plan to make another sequel, if it's to take place in the future, if they do, I hope it won't be another 'space theme' crap like they did with Jason X. Anyways I recommend this to all horror fans, this is creepy and strange, and it makes you wander who or what that creature was. And the songs here were kind of like ambiance to the movie to make it creepier. A must see. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Frightneing, Yet Enjoyable","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is an exciting film. A thriller with amazing characters. I loved this film. It is absolutely an original film. Basically, what it is about is a couple of college students going home for spring break when they encounter a new face of evil. After seeing the creature drop a body into a pipe, they go back to try to save them. When they go back, they find hundreds of dead bodies, including the couple who died on that same highway many years before. After the creature spots the two, they can never escape. The creeper takes Darry and is never defeated. Perfect for the sequel. I give this film a 9 out of 10! You Will have to check it out! "},{"Title":"Needed a better ending","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I liked this movie more than the 2nd one. Justin Long is so adorable! The movie had good acting with very little flaws and mistakes. I don't think they should have shown the Creepers face until later in the movie. That would have made it more suspenseful. Why did they show the creeper getting Dairy's eyes and skin if he didn't even use them in anything. The ending could have been better and that is why it only got a 9 from me. It really got my heart pounding. Too bad she ruined a perfectly good car. She should have made an appearance in the second one though.Overall, I thought the movie was great and kept me on the edge of my seat. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Entertainment","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Is there really no such thing as a truly entertaining horror flick? It's a hard case to make, but Jeepers Creepers (both of them) are the kind I like to watch over and over again. I hate the splattering of blood, the lack of character development. In these films, even the Creeper is a character.You are, after all, what you eat. The rural area, the two lane road going nowhere and the fact that you're not safe, regardless of which direction you go makes this an entertaining horror film. And most aren't, really.This is no Sound of Music, but I'd rather watch it any day than the Sound of Music, so I guess that makes it a great film. "},{"Title":"Some creepy film","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie did exactly what it was meant to do - redefine the rules of horror movies by being so unpredictable it almost gets predictable by doing so. Sounds weird huh), basically it just means that you take nothing in the movie for granted, everything is a surprise and I enjoyed it immensely. I sadly can't say the same for my friends/flat mates because they said it was one of the worst movies they ever saw and have been kind of teasing me about it ever since (approximately for one month now) I have nothing but praise to say about the lead actor and the attractive actress. They give immense believability to everything because they act incredibly convincing, the only right way to go in a good scary movie. And please, take note, there is a difference between a scary movie and a horror movie. The first one's occasionally scare you but are mostly the entertaining type, the second ones are the ones that give you the willies.This one is entertainment at its best, every minute the movie has a new thing to offer the hungry viewer. I guess I just got it and have to say I will definitely check out the sequel. For my friends all I can say is - look beyond the world of bad scary movies that have plagued Hollywood and try to see Jeepers Creepers for what it is, salvation from all this. A pioneer movie almost I just thought the ending was kind of rushed and unexplained, still can't wait for the second partRecommend - to people who are able to look beyond what they see and are able to think and get the subtle messages and hints.8/10 "},{"Title":"Another lame attempt... Very 2000's.","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What's going on with the genre in the new millennium? Many movies like Jeepers Creepers come out every month but doesn't seem to find their own style. I mean, decide if you're making a slasher movie or a horror movie backed on a decent plot. Things haven't got any better after, in fact, most of today's horror movies have the style of this movie. The creepy opening sequence is notably inspired by the opening sequence of Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2. This scene promised and made me think that the movie had potential. Sadly, after it the movie goes downhill and gets boring and repetitive.The whole Creeper plot and situations weren't explained correctly and that's why the movie turns out to be a mess. There isn't a good connection of events. Logic is not always present in horror movies and it seems that this movie forgot about it completely. Jeepers Creepers doesn't makes the audience think or generate horror on their minds (as in Texas Chainsaw Massacre, which obviously served as an inspiration to some scenes). The Creeper character is beyond ridiculous. Believe me, it won't be remembered by fans of the genre for anything! It's very cartoonish in my opinion.The movie is sometimes labeled as a monster movie but I think that the director's intention was to create a slasher flick with supernatural tones. The result is just a rubbish teen horror flick with no head or feet.The best thing is the acting by the lead female character. The girl is beautiful and can act. The scare factor is non-existent and the creepiest thing about the movie is the feeling of loneliness in the town. 3/10.The Jeepers Creepers song added creepiness to the movie and in my opinion, it was best used in the final scene. "},{"Title":"THIS is how teen horror should be!  (Minor plot spoilers)","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Siblings Darryl (Justin Long) and Trish (Gina Phillips) are on their way home from their freshman year at college. But the trip starts turning dangerous as they see a man in a trench coat and a hat that covers his face dumping something down a pipe. They recognize him as the man who tried to run them off the road earlier and go see what he dumped after he leaves, but what they discover is too terrifying for them. They get help from a crazy woman who has too many cats (Eileen Brennan) and a psychic (Patricia Belcher) before they realize what's been chasing them is an ancient demon known as the Creeper (Jonathan Breck) who eats people to regenerate his parts and he sees something in one of them that he wants for his snack. Victor Salva's Jeepers Creepers is a excellent horror film that features just what horror fans want--Excellent suspense,a slick look,a great surprise ending,a scary monster,great performances from unknown actors...This was 90 tense, scary minutes well-spent! Highly recommended! 8/10. "},{"Title":"Where is the intelligence behind this film?","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Too many generic beers and a bad batch of moonshine chasers might have been all the help required for Victor Salva to write this script, enough courage to prove that is was worth making.Interesting that a demon requiring 'food' every 20 years is something folks don't know about. Dahhhhhhhhhhhhh dahhh dahh dah DAHHHHHHHHHHHHH....DUMB.Victor Salva's writing skills are best witnessed in the movie POWDER.It shocks me he had to stoop very low to scrape this screen-play from the bottom of the barrel - literally.The dialogue does not equal that of any kid I ever hung around with EVER!!!By the way - the creature DOES look like FREDDY. Are y'all BLIND? Guess so. Anyway, the only reason I watched this is because of the relief of commercials.This is teen fodder, lame brain fodder. Guess films are made to test the audiences' sophistication. I would definitely toss this script in the fire after my intelligence has been insulted after the first 5 pages. Thank goodness it had been burned. "},{"Title":"(Spoilers)Refreshing to a true horror fan...","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film spawned a lame sequel (Which had an amazingly eerie opening scene in the cornfield! yikes!). but then went downhill from that once the bus load of moronic and extremely juvenile teenagers was introduced. Anyway, this first installment introduced us to the Creeper, who Just Is..I love that! No long drawn out history of a madman, that sort of thing. He's just here, he's hungry and you better watch your butts! Suspenseful in all the right places, a little slow in the middle, but seriously what movie isn't? And of course the climactic ending where the showdown takes place. I was soooooo glad to have the hero lose in the end...it's about freakin' time! That made it way more believable. In real life (suspend rational thought here), you and I would not stand half a chance, seriously. I'm so glad these average joes didn't either. It makes it easier for us to relate to the characters, thus making us really affected by the movie and what happens. I am so tired of the Hollywood endings. This movie was awesome. On a sequel note.....the Creeper is said to have always existed. Well as I stated earlier, I think they went the wrong direction with the lame sequel. They need to do some pre-quel sequels, ya know? Give us some more unknowing small town folks or go back farther in time and let's see how less informed people would deal with the Creeper. I dunno.....I am a fan of anything original, and frankly I was getting tired of the cookie cutter villains and the blueprint story lines, only the naked chicks and bad-guys masks have been changed, ya see what I'm saying? peace. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to disagree with the review I read about this film stating that it was bad and poorly written. I actually enjoyed this movie all the way through to the end and obviously others thought the same, because they made a part 2, which I never seen and plan not to. This movie, I feel, should have never had a sequel, sequels ruin the original films! Everything about this movie held my interest.The actors/actresses all worked well together and the dialog was not that bad. They used scare tactics exactly where they were needed. I had no problems with the script and felt the writers and film makers did a great job! I definitely recommend this movie and have recommended it to a lot of friends, they enjoyed it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Better than the 5 star average that it gets on this site","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know what people were thinking when they voted on this. This film didn't present much else than a new type of horror beast for the audience, but it still got 7/10 stars from me for this reason it wasn't presented like every other horror film.For some, the best thing about horror films is the evident laughter that one has for most b-movie horrors. This wasn't a b-movie horror (nor an overly serious one) and it did a great job at giving the horror fans a new monster in their world. The Creeper has got the goods to survive in many memories. Some say that this film is a bit slow after the halfway point, but it isn't.If anything it reveals more as it goes. The problem with most horror movies, too, is the filler scenes which are usually thrown-in scenes with nudity and pointless crap to fill the void while the monster does damage. This movie has filler, but it was more suspenseful and you feel that the Creeper is close-by always in the film.Everything but the remake of Siouxsie's Peekaboo and the everlasting bumper on the back of these siblings' car (from the beginning, when they get hit a million times, but in the next shots the bumper is fine) get props from me. I loved the whole thing and I thought it was refreshing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Despite everyone's negative comments - I found this extremely entertaining!","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am totally surprised to find all these negative reviews!! I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.. and I am not easily entertained! There are plenty of movies (Halloween, Friday 13th.. ) all the classics that I never enjoyed as much as this!!! Of course it's unrealistic!! Of course giant monsters don't drive around highways looking for people that smell good!!! But I would think when you sit down to watch a horror movie you kinda have an open mind!! You expect to be surprised with something crazy!!I'm just SOOO sick of the cheesy horrors that are around now!!! Movies like I know what you did last summer have just never had an effect on me!! Although I've never actually been SCARED in a horror.. you can get scared enough to be entertained and glued to your seat - and this movie was one that made me like that!!I found it more entertaining than the Exercist! & that's saying a lot!!In all honesty.. the movie could have been perceived as slightly cheesy by some... but I personally found it well worth watching!!! I would recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind! I mean after all, I sat down thinking this was just another cheesy horror flick.. now I reckon it's one of the best horrors I've ever seen!!  "},{"Title":"There is a jeep and a creep, the rest is subjective","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't what I'd call a good horror film or a great thriller. Maybe that is because I like my horror films to be a bit more realistic (as in NO monsters) like Scream and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974). The main reasons for me not liking this too much though, is that there isn't much of a story there and the fact that the film is at times somewhat ridiculous. Come on Mr.Salva, how about a decent background for the Creeper. Where is he from, how did he get this way, why does he come every 23 years for 23 days? Nothing is explained here (guess I'll have to watch part 2! HELL NO!!!!). However there is some gore, some originality, some thrills and one big old freak. Do not except a reality based slasher a-la Scream, but rather something demonic that first appears to be a geriatric hippie and turns out to be Darth Maul's ugly step-brother (after his mother had an affair with the Wishmaster and Dracula). All in all this is not a bad film, it just isn't good either. If you turn off your brain like I did and just take it as it comes you might still 'like' it as much as I did.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Could have been great.....","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When this film was first seen advertised at the cinema, I have never heard so many people commenting on it. The trailer makes out that this is the latest slasher film to scare and excite and to be honest, i fell for it to.I decided to see the film after hearing raving reports that this was the scariest film ever!. So, me being all brave rushed to the cinema. Well, what followed was not the feeling of tension, but the feeling of disappointment. I sat there willing the film to reach a high point, but no such luck!Don't get me wrong, the beginning of this film is a great opening. The director really shows the characters emotions and the background music creates unbelievable tension. This film had such potential but it failed dismally! As soon as the creature was revealed, that was it! I lost complete interest and it appeared that the film had turned into a comedy rather than a horror!The actors try to entertain, but by the middle of the film i couldn't care less! it would have been brilliant if the creature had never been revealed, coz lets face it, thats what horror and suspense is all about! We know there is something there but we don't know what! It makes us feel part of the film and when that happens, thats when you know its gonna be a box office hit!No offence to the actors or director, because the film could have been great, but if you're looking to be scared, watch the trailer but forget the film! Its even more annoying that it started well but ended terribly!  "},{"Title":"A truly awful film","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI couldn't believe how terrible this film was.  It started off well, I liked the lonely road, bodies wrapped in sheets and creepy trenchcoated guy in the distance scenario, but then the whole thing went pear shaped! What could have been a good suspense/horror film, turned into a naff monster movie.  I suggest the writers go and watch a few Hitchcocks followed by a dose of Hellraiser, Shining and Texas Chainsaw Massacre before embarking on their next attempt.I give this film 4/10 (and the 4 is mainly only for the nice countryside at the beginning!) "},{"Title":"Not really original","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I wasn't really impressed by this movie. It seemed to run the gamut from too curious kids who never seemed to run when they were scared to horrible rural stereotypes. I thought the only mildly spooky scene was the last one, which I won't describe as not to spoil the ending. I will say that it was somewhat unexpected, but not that big of a twist either. Critical words aside, I didn't intensely dislike the movie either. It was just a typical horror movie like I saw as a kid. Good to watch with a fraidy-cat who will cuddle up to you to hide her eyes during the scary parts. This movie does not require a lot of brain power to watch, so don't expect a deep experience. "},{"Title":"How did this movie get good reviews?","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I feel cheated. I've saved this movie to watch as a treat because I thought it might be special. I had sensed from some of the reviews and the Coppola connection that this was something a bit special, something genre-defining. Like others have said, it starts off with promise - but very soon it descends into total drivel.I found myself constantly predicting exciting plot twists, only to be disappointed by the silly direction the plot kept going in. When strange things happened, like the phonecall at the diner, or the incident with the cat woman, I was excited because I was relishing some final ingenious denouement where these disparate and seemingly disjointed themes would come together. But it never came! I really am at a loss when it comes to understanding those intelligent reviewers who really raved about this film - I am really disappointed. Yes it began well, yes it referenced some horror greats, and yes the central actors gave good performances. If the film had been totally panned, and if it had been rubbish from start to finish, I could have understood. But to start so promisingly, and then to descend into such a mess, and yet still get some respectful reviews... It doesn't make any sense!  "},{"Title":"B Movies Are Back ???","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie because, let's face it, I'm a horror nut.Little did I know it was going to be a B movie in every way. It seemed like Victor Salva was only testing the waters with this one just to see where he could go with it.The demon, later to be know as The Bat Out Of Hell, was probably the best character in the whole movie. Albeit  he only gets to come alive every 23 years to feed for 23 days. (What the heck was up with the number 23 anyway ?)  The rest of the characters were flakey and cheesey, to say the least.The movie had promise, but, let' face it, it fizzled in the end. It was almost like a re-hash of the Freddy Krueger movies.I had no idea there would be a sequel, until the sequel was released.There is no way this first movie can be compared to the second one, though. Once you've seen this movie, don't give up, okay ? See the second one. You won't be disappointed. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Complete Garbage","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Thankfully, a friend paid for my admission when this movie first came out. I couldn't be paid to rent this. There wasn't anything to catch my interest. Considering that I jump at my own shadow, this is saying a lot.There wasn't any chemistry between the characters. The movie seemed dependent on fright value. Since I was near falling asleep, I don't think there was any of that. The storyline wasn't anything original, either. Monster, comes out every x number of years, hunts. While this may be a standard formula, at least some works make the watching interesting. Jeepers Creepers, not so much. Ultimately, I couldn't even feel glad that it ended. I didn't realize it had. I could almost believe that the person changing the film reels just forgot to switch out.Overall, a very, very, VERY bad movie. "}{"Title":"At least it's short","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A girl, her bother, their car and a killer demon. How could they go wrong? Like this. A couple of post modern moments - Trying to stop her brother crawling down a hole, Trish (Gina Philips) tells him You know the part in horror movies when somebody does something really stupid, and everybody hates him for it? This is it.. It's a nice line but it doesn't stop it from being true - he does something stupid and you hate him for it. Trish gets all the best lines (All three of them), and is generally plucky and likeable. Her brother, Darry(?) (Justin Long) is just irritating, with a range of facial expressions that recall the young Keanu Reeves after too many botox injections. The demon, once you get a half-decent view of it, looks like a day-player that wandered off the set of 'Buffy'. There's a deux ex machina who supposedly turns up to explain all about The Creeper, but whose explanations don't make a lot of sense. Throw in the final scene which is pretty much a plea for the subsequent sequel and you've got an hour and a half that would be better spend doing something else. "},{"Title":"FOR ME, THIS IS THE STUFF OF WHICH NIGHTMARES ARE MADE!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I spend time every day in a movies chat room where horror films are the mostpopular genre, and where, at least hourly, some kid posts What is everyone's favorite horror movie? My answer never varies. My favorite horror film of the early 21st Century is definitely Jeepers Creepers. I like the premise of an ageless and obviously powerful predatory monster. The creeper is an ugly guy, and he scares me. There are plenty of those horror movie Don't go there! cliches, but most of what happens is a reasonable as one can expect. What makes this film for me, however, is the acting of Justin Long as the young intended vixtim Darry. I've loved horror fim since my first exposure in 1953, and I have never seen a more realistic portrayal of absolute terror than that of the totally terrified Darry. Long's expressive face conveys very clearly the horror of his character's situation. I've enjoyed Jeepers Creepers a dozen times, and I'm far from satiated. "},{"Title":"Pathetic Little Film","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There was a reason why I avoided watching this film for 2 years. The critics panned it, and now I know why.  This film starts off well, especially with the looks of Gina Philips.  I swear, this woman sounds and looks like Laura San Giacomo.  Except in the sweater area, but I fell in love with the girl.  Horrible ending, predictable to say the least and terrible special effects.  The plot didn't make sense, and why don't the cops know about this phenomenon?  Every 23 years, for 23 days?  What keeps it in it's bottle for 23 years?  Is it some sort of vampire?  You have to see the flick, to find out what I'm talking about, but don't pay for it.  I sure didn't, mom bought it for my sister and I was bored tonight.  I hear the sequel is worst, and it must be if Gina is not in it!  Powder was a better film.   "},{"Title":"and the award for worst horror flick of 2001 goes too...","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  you guessed it, this turkey!*** WARNING  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS! ***Jeepers Creepers, what horrible characters!  The actors delivered the best performance they could, but they had nothing with which to work. The two lead characters take turns doing and saying the most asinine things throughout the movie.  You will grow quite weary of them walking up on obviously dangerous situations saying Hello?.  If I see a guy who just almost ran over me on a deserted road throw a body into a sewer pipe, I am not going to convince my sister to go back there with me.  If a psychic accurately confirms incredible things I have witnessed, I am not going to waste time arguing with her.  These two had a number of chances to -- just as they often said -- get out of here but continued to hang around and let the creature find them.  The writer/director never developed the characters enough for us to sympathize with either of them.  No significant bonding happened between the sister and brother in spite of all they experienced together.  Likewise, the Poho County police didn't lift a finger to help when they were needed most.  They didn't even help when one of their own was in the creeper's clutches. IT'S JUST PLAIN SAD. ...and the so-called great and daring ending in my humble opinion only served as icing on the cake for my conclusion that my $3.69 and 90 minutes of my life had been utterly wasted.My 16 year old daughter laughed throughout this movie.  See it, so that you can laugh, too. "},{"Title":"Why Oh WHY","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What the hell was this film supposed to be like?   Throughout the movie the annoying sister kept on saying remember what happens during the scary movies where the stupid teenager goes to search for something that they shouldn't and they pay the price for it or some kind of crap.  At first the film did interest me as it did start kind of slow which is unusual for a film of this type, the brother and sister were talking amongst themselves whilst driving and nothing much happens apart from the audience trying to get to know the characters, but eventually we do come to the opening scene and it was I thought quite frightening.   But the moment they decide to be heroes and go back to see if they can help anyone was where the film began to sour.   It eventually makes the killer a comical one at times which is just something a director and writer should never do in a film, because you have to keep the audience afraid of the villain, because if you don't then you don't really care who win's and who dies and that was something they got wrong.   I am not a big fan of horror films, If I was to say my favourite off the top of my head then it would be either John Carpenter's The Thing or Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre which scared the hell out of me.   I do believe that horror films were meant for the 70's and 80's; nothing at all blew my mind in the 90's and the same so far in 2003 "},{"Title":"One Sentence Review","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I suspect that, if he was being totally honest with himself, director Victor Salva would love to keep the first half of this film and remake the last 40 minutes as then he would have a chance to create a decent, suspenseful movie. "},{"Title":"Very stylish!","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like Clive Barker said This is one of the most stylish horror movies I´ve seen for years. He is right. In fact is quite similar to a Cliver Barker Book of Blood story. Those wonderfully cynic masterpieces of prose writing. This movie is dark, intelligent, surprising, carthartic - on the level of Japanese horror like The Ring and Audition, although in a different way. I guess the movie´s real strength is the eerie, Texas Chainsaw-like surrounding´s. The scene where the monster throws stuff down a pipe is just incredible matching the excitement of a movie like Se7en.  "},{"Title":"Scary, stylish throwback to old school horror.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  JEEPERS CREEPERS (2001)THE GOOD--The ending to this film, as in the final shot, is classic. It's very clever and goddamn scary, and you'll be kicking yourself for not realising what was going on earlier.--I liked the chemistry between Justin Long and Gina Philips, their performances were both good and I really bought that they were brother and sister.--One of the best things about Jeepers Creepers is it changes the horror formula completely. Instead of going with that tired teen slasher whodunit story, this movie is a throwback to the classics like A Nightmare on Elm Street, where the monster is the villain. The monster itself is really cool and very scary.--Jeepers Creepers has the right amount of jump-out-of-your-seat boo frights and also intense chase/suspense sequences (the first few minutes featured major intensity).THE BAD--After a great first half, the movie does start to loose it's footing during the later part of the film. It's still entertaining, but doesn't have the suspense and originality that the first half did.--The supporting characters didn't have much purpose in the film and were only there to make the body count higher. For instance the cat woman, or the psychic (I had lukewarm feelings towards both).RATING8/10 - Kudos to Victor Salva for going against the formula and giving the horror market of this generation something more original.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDHannibal (8/10) I Know What You Did Last Summer (7/10) Jeepers Creepers 2 (7/10) A Nightmare on Elm Street (9/10) Ravenous (8/10) "},{"Title":"Jeepers Weepers More Like It","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Since a sequel was made to this film, I believed that the first must have been a good movie, I was wrong! There is a creeper, but what he is or who he is are kept secret. All we know is that something comes out every 23 years and that he sucks up parts of people for use in his own body. Eyes, tongues, feet or whatever part is needed. Why he needs this, I don't know. Does he want to look human? Maybe, it would be an improvement. There is one scene as the Jenner siblings continue to run over the body of the creeper. Parts of his body turn to dust. The best line or really the only good part of dialog occurs with this scene as the brother Darius tells his sister Patricia to stop running over the body because he is dead, her reply they always get up. I guess that is why there is a sequel, bad things tend to get up and made again. The creeper likes to smell his prey which is different way of choosing victims but the whole idea pretty much smells in the execution. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Goofy doofy, what a stupid movie","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***SPOILERS FOR A ROTTEN MOVIE***Classic example of how to ruin a good idea with bad filmmaking.I wound up watching most of this movie with the same baffled incredulity I had for Jurassic Park II. Did they really expect me to buy any of this?I know this is a monster movie. I'm willing to overlook the obvious suspension of disbelief issues. The filmmakers even get points for a good-looking monster and breaking from the traditional 'kids tell the cops but cops don't believe them' monster movie cliche.They lose it all with the characters and a few inexplicable gaffes. They completely failed to make Jezelle Hartman the creepy, somehow-knowing seer who gives vague warnings to the protagonists. She comes across as a bug-eyed caricature who hardly knows what day it is. Patricia Jenner is completely stereotypical as the post-Buffy horror heroine who starts out shocked and then decides to go kick butt. Darius Jenner is a good character, though, and I give the Creeper credit for taste Justin Long has beautiful eyes. Why couldn't he have killed Patricia and let the cute boy go?The biggest mistake this movie makes is in how it handles the Creeper himself. All suspense is lost, early on, due to the over-use of the monster in full view. Horror movies shouldn't let the audience get used to seeing the monster. Once its appearance ceases to be a shock or surprise, you lose the real terror, and that's when most low-grade horror flicks fall back on gore, which is exactly what Jeepers Creepers does. If it wasn't for the blood and the torturous killings, the film would be laughable, instead of just insipid.My biggest pet peeve how does a horrific supernatural creature manage to keep his vehicle registration up-to-date, let alone acquire a freaking VANITY LICENSE PLATE? The first time I saw that 'BEATNGU' tag, I lost any and all respect for the film. "}{"Title":"What was the creeper?","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie is incredibly stupid and pointless.  the characters really stunk and the actors were horrible. the only cool thing at all the very end and that landed 2 1/2 minutes. i cant believe a sequel was made, and the only reason that was made was a sad attempt to scare pre-teens into going and seeing that because the rest of society (I think) would  rather be at home watching reruns of the facts of life!!!  (F F-) "},{"Title":"One of the MOST effective first 45 minutes ever, but....","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ....the remaining minutes of this flick devolves into the standard teen horror flick.SPOILERS>>>Can you imagine driving down a rural highway, you look out to your left and you see someone dumping what seems to be a body into a drainage pipe.  Hell, all I got to say is that I would be outta there.  Anyways, with this the start of Jeepers Creepers and the forthcoming road rage from the Creeper creates a taut suspense.  Unfortunately, the rest of this flick is garbage (as with the horrible ending).  Good start saves this movie from a 2/10, so the BOTTOM LINE is 4/10! "},{"Title":"utter crap","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i have to say i cant usually spot mistakes when i watch films, but i  spotted loads in this, it was quite good up until we saw the monster, then it became worse. the actors were terrible from the start. it is just a corny, cheesy piece of hollywood dished out on the bandwagon of teen movies to make a few quid. i say leave the horror and comedy films to middle age people or atleast no later then mid 30's. and tell the actors to try and not be TOO american. it grates after the first five minutes "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has a lot going for it. It starts off very strong with some good acting, direction, and writing. Fifteen minutes into it I thought I was going to see a great new take on the classic boogeyman movie. Too bad the whole thing meanders downhill for the next 75 minutes. There are some really brilliant moments in here, and I suppose the movie is worth seeing if you like the genre, but WHAT A TOTAL LET DOWN. Dallas Morning News says one of the gutsiest endings to a film this year. I couldn't have said it better unless I changed the word gutsiest to lamest. Who am I kidding this movie doesn't even have an ending, just some credits that start rolling at the end of the second act. That's right, this movie has NO THIRD ACT. This is the new gutsy direction Hollywood is going now, if you have not noticed. Even big name directors like Tim Burton are doing it with charity projects like Planet Of The Apes. Wake up you Hollywood screenwriting nimrods! I know most Hollywood producers don't understand the first thing about drama, but the audience tends to notice when 33% of the picture is MISSING! All style and no substance; I rate this film INCOMPLETE "},{"Title":"Not What It Appears To Be","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Trust me, don't listen to all the people rambling on about how the film has deeper psychological meanings and breaks all these horror cliches.  It doesn't.  Most people are probably fooled by this because they've been jaded by a horror climate made up of mostly cheap teen stalker films.  Jeepers Creepers is a throw back to the old 80's horror films.  A little fresh in these times, but FAR from original.  Fact is, the film sets up a good film and fails to deliver.  The first half is a slower, more Hitchcockian thriller.  We don't see the Creeper, we don't see people needlessly killed.  It works the Duel angle greatly for awhile.  Then it goes down hill.  The creeper is introduced in a more frontal matter, and we begin to realize he isn't all that scary or threatening.  This is conveyed by a bunch of by the books sequences where the main characters fight back and win all too easily.  Then of course there is the psychic lady.  She seems to have absolutely no place in the story.  Salva just threw her in to try and give the film a mystical element, which a). doesn't work, and b). makes every scene with this character painful to watch.  Then of course comes the Creepers big attack scene at the jail, which is cheap in the aspect that it isn't exciting in this least, and shies away from any blood/gore shots, which at the very least would have spiced this dull movie up a bit.   The two main characters are flat.  A bickering brother and sister team that are always at each other's throat until something bad happens, then they couldn't love each other more.  And of course the girl is this typical modern horror star (not blonde with big tits, likes to point fun at horror films, i.e., an exact rip off of the girl from Scream).  The actors possessed some chemistry together, but it never works due to bad writing.The film is solid for the first part, and then slowly slides into the darkness of bland horror conventions.  On the outside it would appear as a nice love letter to the old monster films, but it is really just another late 90's teen horror film.  3.5/10* ½  / * * * *  "},{"Title":"I want my money back","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Saw this movie in the theater.  When it was over the entire audience could be heard muttering, I want my money back. or That's two hours of my life I'll never get back.  Honestly, I love cheesy horror, but this was beyond bad.  All the way through were moments that made you go what??  My favorite was almost at the end when the brother and sister are at the police station after repeatedly being attacked.  The sister is on the phone talking to her parents.  They offer to come to her and she turns them down. Hello? Am I the only one who thinks that's ridiculous?  And that's not the worst of them.  I cannot BELIEVE they're making a sequel.  Lord.... "},{"Title":"Very DISAPPOINTED","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A lot of my friends had been telling me that this was the creepiest movie EVER and that I HAD to see it, because it would scare the PANTS off of me. I love a good scary movie, and so I finally decided to rent this and see what all the hype was about.  I must say that I was expecting something extrodinary and what I got was a big let down.  The beginning was a little suspensful but after that I didn't find myself scared at all.  All the situations seemed entirely predictable as far as who was going to get caught and at what moment.  I must admit that the ending was a little surprising but in no way scary or very suspensful.  The biggest problem I had was that the movie ended WAY too quickly and left too many loose ends. My friends claim that you are not supposed to know all the details and that it's supposed to be mysterious, but I found that so many questions were left unanswered that the movie ended up making little sense.  Luckily I got this on a free rental so I didn't have to be too mad about wasted money.  IMO Wrong Turn is MUCH more suspensful and scarrier, although several of my friends still claim Jeepers Creepers is better. "},{"Title":"Very scary movie!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As a fan of horror movies, I am not easily frightened by most horror movies. Generally horror movies like The Sixth Sense, The Ring and The Others are the only ones that scare me pretty bad. However, this movie is unlike any of those. It's unique up front in that its main characters are brother and sister and not boyfriend and girlfriend. Its creepiness comes in the form of a psychic old black woman who knows hows all going to end and hopes she can change the outcome. I DEFINITELY recommend this to a fan of scary movies!!! "},{"Title":"Need a laugh?","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  I love horror flicks from classic horror to suspense to modern gore...this movie was ridiculous.  It was a first date with my now husband & both of us walked out of the theatre amazed that we had wasted $14 on such a hunk o' junk.  If you want to watch a cheezy, not scary horror flick, rent it.  The movie was alright until they showed the monster thing...my imagination was scaring me until he appeared.  I could go on & on...but then I'd be like the movie & not end soon enough. "},{"Title":"BEWARE!!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is none of these things A good horror movie. A sorta good horror movie. A mediocre horror movie. A cheesy horror movie. A bad yet fun horror movie that one rents on a Saturday night when one cannot decide on any other horror movie.Jeepers Creepers is, in fact, one of the most horrendously awful movies I have ever seen in my life.  To this day I still cannot believe I wasted 3 dollars and 75 minutes of my life in renting this movie.  It is trash of the upmost level.  The woman singing Jeepers Creepers the whole time was easily laughable.  Now, I can go for a cheesy/bad horror flick almost any day, heck, I found Leprauchan in the Hood oddly enjoyable, but this was just pain pain pain from beginning to end.  Stay away from this movie and its sequel if at all possible. "}{"Title":"Jeppers Sleepers","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this flim, and then I watched it and now I wished I had spent the 2 hours I had wasted on this drivle doing something more worth while....like watching paint dry.I can not put this film down enough, scary no, shocking, don't make me laugh, original, welll lets put it this way the Knock Knock jokes are more originalk than this, two dumb ass kids a man/bat/squirrel thing and a few dead people.....oooohhhh please I am so scared..zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.I was that infuriated that I demanded my money back from the video shop!! "},{"Title":"I wanted to know more about the house of pain","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (SPOILERS BEWARE)The first part of this movie was very scary.  First, this old creepy truck comes up out of no where on the bumper of the kids' car.  After giving them a scare, it finally passes them. Then a little ways down the road, they see someone dumping, what looks like a body down this pipe.  Then, the truck chases them again, which was very scary and finally runs them off the road. Throughout this, we get some laughs as the brother and sister exchange insults.  Darry gets the bright idea of looking down the pipe.  And what he finds down there is sick.  Later, we learn it is called the house of pain. One complaint is I would have liked this basement to have been more explained. As a matter of fact, it would have been nice to have been told a little bit more about the history of the Creeper.  And just because the church was burned, one would think the police still would have found the bodies and bones of the people in the basement.So, the two kids make it to a diner, where they get a phone call from a psychic, with a mysterious warning.  The next great scary scene is when they are driving back to the church with the police car behind them. Darry and Trish are talking while we see the Creeper on top of the police car in the background.It is still suspencful as they encounter the cat lady, and she confronts the Creeper.  After that it starts to get stupid and turns into the same old same old B horror movie with the killer chasing the stupid kids.  Basically from this point, the Creeper gets run over and follows the kids to a police station.  The psychic lady should have explained how the creature suddenly develops wings and maybe given other spooky stories about it.  In the finally scene, we see what the Creeper wanted, but that can be figured out by the song.FINAL VERDICT  The movie could have used a little more blood and gore. The first half was terrific and scary.  The second half is a cliche of a B horror movie.  The director and writer must have gotten lazy at that point.  Overall, I recommend this just because the first part is so good and the latter part isn't really bad, it is just predictable and unoriginal. "},{"Title":"When your mind begins to Wander","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Jeepers Creepers about a year and a half ago, but decided to add my comments to the lot.  This was one of those movies I had wondered about before I saw.  Will it just be another cheesy movie.  You know the type that uses well edited trailers with great soundtracks to draw you in.  Of course then you see it and then wonder why you were fooled.  This was one of those movies for me.  I thought it wasn't going to be scary.  I just wanted to see it and get it over with.  Throughout the movie I realized it wasn't a terrifying movie.  Not something that just scared you senseless, but there was something.  There was something there.  There was just something about it that creeps you out.  It was a little oddly scary.  Certain scenes like being pursued on the open road in the middle of nowhere by a maniac, well that's scary.  Just the idea, that it could happen.  As the movie goes on.  You realize (for certain reasons) this would never happen.  Although, the main idea, of a stalker tormenting you is scary.  I wouldn't want to see this movie and be on a long country road at night.  Just the same way as I wouldn't want to swim after Jaws or go camping after Friday the 13th.  Just alone I don't think these movies are particularly scary.  Its when you take the element of what parts could happen in reality thats when it becomes creepy.  You can totally put yourself in allot of these situations.  That is what will freak you out and that is what makes this a decent horror flick.  Its not the greatest, but I think it did its job well.  I hear the making of the second one is coming out. I am sure it will just be another blood bath.  It won't pass the first one because the unknown is no longer unknown.  Only time will tell if it can still bring a creepy quality to the table.  In closing I would recommend seeing this movie at least once.  Get a few friends together on a dark night and pop it in.  I'm sure you will have some scares.  Enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Steer Clear of this at all costs","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lame, Stupid, Plot. Boring, Uninteresting, Uninspired Characters. At the end of the movie you will find the plot so stupid you will want to p***. Yes, this movie is really THAT bad. STAY AWAY. Do not let this movie rob you of your hour and a half. The plot is never even resolved fully at the end of the movie and will leave you hanging..for another TERRIBLE sequel coming in 20031/10 "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!!!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this movie even made it to the theater.  Just as worst as the Blair Witch project.  Don't bother wasting your time.  If you think this movie was scary, you should go watch The Ring.  The Ring is so much better compared to this. "},{"Title":"This is a well done version of a slasher movie, but it is still a slasher movie!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After reading the reviews, I thought this might be a good bet. We are a bi-lingual family, and we watch a lot of action and horror. The filming is great, the special effects are pretty good, and the creature is well defined and, should I be of a youngr age, I would count this as a great one up there with Return of the Living Dead. "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've watched this movie over and over and over. I absolutely love the darkness of it, the characters are entertaining, and the monster is AWESOMELY scary and has starred in many of my own nightmares.  It's got to be the most underrated horror movie ever. "},{"Title":"Poor effort at a horror","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As the film credits were rolling up the screen, I thought to myself 'What the hell was that!!!!'. It was or has been described as a horror, full of suspense, well worth a watch.  Well there was that much suspense and horror in this movie that I almost fell asleep half way through.  The initial idea of the movie was pretty good but it wasn't scary and certainly didn't sustain any suspense. In short, I've seen scarier episodes of Tom and jerry! "},{"Title":"a little cliche', the ending was decent at best ... *spoilers*","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i have to agree that this movie is more than a bit unreasonable, unrealistic, and followed a long line of horror movie cliche's. i completely despise the fact that in every horror movie now the characters say phrases like this is like the part of a horror movie where someone does something really stupid. i mean do people really say that too often when in scary situations? it's become so overused to play with irony and make fun of horror movies while you're starring in one. there were two main things that disrupted the chemistry in this movie for me one ... the chemistry between the two main characters did not seem family-oriented to me, before the script told me they were brother and sister i thought they were boyfriend and girlfriend. the chemistry on that level just wasn't there, and two ... all the suspenseful moments were predictable, we knew who was going to die, and when (in exception to the psychic lady and the main character). something else too ... the first time darry talked to psychic woman (who was only in the movie because of an idiot plot), anyway, she told him about the song jeepers creepers. why? because she saw the end of the movie, she saw his fate. but then, by coincidence, it comes on the radio right before we see the killer the first time. this isn't even the situation she was talking about! alot of things in this movie, like what i just mentioned, were too far from believable to be considered scary. "},{"Title":"a little cliche', the ending was decent at best ... *spoilers*","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i have to agree that this movie is more than a bit unreasonable, unrealistic, and followed a long line of horror movie cliche's. i completely despise the fact that in every horror movie now the characters say phrases like this is like the part of a horror movie where someone does something really stupid. i mean do people really say that too often when in scary situations? it's become so overused to play with irony and make fun of horror movies while you're starring in one. there were two main things that disrupted the chemistry in this movie for me one ... the chemistry between the two main characters did not seem family-oriented to me, before the script told me they were brother and sister i thought they were boyfriend and girlfriend. the chemistry on that level just wasn't there, and two ... all the suspenseful moments were predictable, we knew who was going to die, and when (in exception to the psychic lady and the main character). something else too ... the first time darry talked to psychic woman (who was only in the movie because of an idiot plot), anyway, she told him about the song jeepers creepers. why? because she saw the end of the movie, she saw his fate. but then, by coincidence, it comes on the radio right before we see the killer the first time. this isn't even the situation she was talking about! alot of things in this movie, like what i just mentioned, were too far from believable to be considered scary. "}{"Title":"Garbagers creeppers","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The worst horror movie I ever saw. Don't go and don't rent that. It is so slow that appears slow even watching it by fast forward. It is as stupid as boring. That's it. "},{"Title":"Avoid!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film had potential -- When you subject yourself to the overhyped yawnfest that it is, you realize just HOW MUCH potential it had -- and that it's ALL wasted.  Scare films these days are so concerned with political correctness (the sworn enemy of true creative vision) and swinging the sexist pendulum WAY the other way (which is every inch as sexist as that which it decries), all that's left is unpalatable fodder.  This unremarkable, plodding, unsuspenseful garbage wouldn't even have made it as a TV movie.  Typically, there's a sequel in the works. "},{"Title":"Can a movie SUCK more ?","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At first I had no regrets renting this movie, but then the trailers ended, and 1 and a half hour with nothing but stupid F****** characters doing the stupidest stunts ever, was simply too much. It was unbearable, the only cool thing was the time where The Creeper stood on the police car, and chopped the cops head off. But that was ruined later when u find out what the creeper really is capable of ! Bottomline this movie is worse than I know what u did last summer, part deus ! "},{"Title":"Lobotomize the script writer","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a classic Hollywood piece of crap!Teenagers, Old crappy car, no logical thinking (lets put my head in that dark hole instead of getting the hell out of here, kind of stuff), mix this with a superdemon from hell and a nutty black psychic woman who cannot answer any questions and you got a given success... NOT!The most crappy movie ever!! And they are making a sequel!! what a surprise... "},{"Title":"Is this Horror ? well a shame to them!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Come on this ain horror!,this movie is so unreal !,I felt almost at sleep come on what was the director thinking ? or the script writer ? ...maybe it was on a Monday morning ?....I hope so for them cause if not well a shame to them! 2003 part 2 well let's wait maybe it get's better or maybe it get even more worse...,the had enough money so that was not the point to bad they could have make a good one instead of this . "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What I liked about Jeepers Creepers was how it was a drama in a horror movie. You feel like you know Trish and Darry and that's why the film is so good. Also Jeepers Creepers uses alot of old horror tricks to shock you but also adds new ideas. The ending is rather strange but at least it didn't ruin it like I've seen in so many other movies. The beggining of the movie is chilling and the second half is an all out out horror which make it very watchable. Overall Jeepers Creepers is probably my favorite film.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of CRAP!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was the crappiest horror movie i've ever seen!! Those who thought that this film was scary must be real wimps cuz there was nothing scary about it!  When my friend and I rented Jeepers, we thought that we'd be in for a big scare, but boy were we wrong!  The plot was okay but when they actually incorporated the song into it...that was just sooo cheesy! We were even laughing at some parts cuz the characters were being so stupid by just standing there when they could've ran for their lives! I am just so glad that i didn't pay 10 bucks to see it in the theater! "},{"Title":"An American Masterpiece","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I heard many good things about this film. But after three attempts at renting it from different outfits on DVD, I had to accept the sad fact hat this MGM disc is, for some mysterious, unfathomable reason, incompatible with my Toshiba SD-2109 DVD player. It wasn't until I upgraded my DVD player that I finally got to appreciate what a fine piece of work this is great believable characters, great actors, supremely masterful cinematography that captures every moment of the end of a dying day in Florida and the coming of night without any of that bluish taint that infects all contemporary movies. Suspense in the middle of the daytime and in the middle of the night. A truly great filmscore that the director actually supervised. Truly great editing and sound. All in all, the production values of this film which could otherwise be mistaken for a teenage summer slasher flick are absolutely staggering and on a par with the finest of modern Japanese cinema. This director is, on the strength of this film alone, one of the finest story-tellers in America. I am not a fan of this genre at all but I will always be willing to make an exception for this brilliant director. "},{"Title":"sucked","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into Jeepers Creepers thinking it would be packed full of scary characters, hot ladies and fright scenes.  What I got was horridly 'blah' characters, one hottie and the most insanely predictable movie I have ever scene. (including Fat Ethel 2 which was way more original).I am writing this about a year after watching the movie, which definitely hasn't been long enough to get this awfully pop, garb of a movie's bad taste out of my mouth.  If this is what is meant by horror movie, then this film deserves an oscar.  cheers "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever!!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I LOVED THIS FILM! I thought Jeepers Creepers was brilliant it had a great story line, fantastic actors and a surprise ending. I love the way the song (Jeepers Creepers) ties in with the film, you start of thinking it's lighthearted until you get to the end and you find out that the song is actually dark and creepy! I read a lot of the reviews for Jeepers Creepers on here and most of them are negative which surprised me. I would advise anyone to watch it and I give it 10 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"A sure fire way to get rid of unwanted guests!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film really is the pits! It is confused as to whether it wants to be a teen horror or real horror, there is no sexual tension in it, a key factor in all teen horrors and it is so boring, you find yourself not caring what happens, and wanting to turn it off a third into it! The ending is very unsatisfying and I was in agony by the time they reached it. If you want to get rid of unwanted guests at your place put on this film - a sure fire way to empty any room! "},{"Title":"Jeepers! Creepers.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What went wrong?  The opening could hardly have been more promising.  Bright sunlight, brother and sister driving along miles from anywhere, chatting about this and that (intelligent dialogue lays the groundwork for all sorts of relationship stuff, which will be completely forgotten as soon as the monster appears - which is a GOOD thing) ... it's well photographed (far more so than is usual for a horror film) and the first thrills of fear are expertly handled.  For maybe as much as half an hour it even seemed possible that I was watching a masterpiece.The first hint that I wasn't came when Darryl prepared to climb down the drain pipe.  (The reason offered for their returning to the drain pipe in the first place wasn't convincing, but that didn't seem to matter at the time.)  Trish grabs him and says angrily You know the bit in horror movies where someone does something really stupid, and everyone hates him for it?  This is it.  The LAST thing a story like this needs is self-awareness.  Until now Salva had been making a real movie; now, suddenly, his characters know they're in a horror movie, and it's a Scream sequel.Sure, it's a momentary lapse.  (There's only one other moment of self-awareness, and it comes much later, when Darryl looks at what appears to be the monster's corpse and asks, Is it dead? and Trish responds, They never are; but by this point the film has taken so many wrong turnings that one more makes no difference.)  But not TOO long afterwards, Salva, who started by avoiding all the usual, routine mistakes, lets us know he was merely saving them up.  It's NOT a mistake, as some critics have said, to make the murderer Darryl and Trish see turn out to be a true monster (i.e., a supernatural being).  In fact it would be a mistake not to.  Nor is it necessarily a mistake to SHOW us the monster.  The mistake was to show us the monster, AND make him look so cheesy, like a guy in a rubber mask on Halloween.  Similarly, it wasn't a mistake to explain his nature and his powers; the mistake lay in offering an explanation AND making it so ordinary and silly.  (Either way, it was a mistake to offer the explanation through the mouth The Character Who Knows Stuff - and has no other reason for appearing in the movie.)  After a certain point, almost everything is a mistake.The beginning is so good - so fresh - that I'm actually willing to forgive the stale, unexciting, obvious way it progresses and ends.  If it had simply ended at the moment before it nosedives (when Darryl and Trish make it to the roadside diner), it would be a first-rate short film, and its conclusion would be if anything less abrupt and pointless.P.S. and spoiler (sort of)  We're told the monster comes out every 23 years.  Why 23?  I presume we're meant to think of insect species which swarm every 13, 17, or some highish prime number of years - but the reason they do this is so that their life cycle will be out of sync with that of any predator.  What's the monster's excuse?  He doesn't swarm (there's just one of him) and he can't be preyed upon. "},{"Title":"A stylish horror film with CLASSIC written all over it.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is a stylish horror film with classic written all over it. In the fashion of the old black and white horror movies, Jeepers Creepers is meant to haunt you not necessarily make you jump out of your skin (although some scenes do). Its a simple story done in an old fashioned yet brilliant style. The story follows Darry and Trish, siblings on their way home from college to visit their parents. While driving they are nearly run off the road by a creepy old car, which they then find parked by a church. It is there that they see a man wearing a trench coat dumping bodies into a sewer duct. This of course leads to a hideous chase as the Creeper targets the two as his new additions.What I loved about this movie is that it wasnt REALLY trying to impress anybody with big Hollywood visual effects and fascinating sets. Its all placed in the quiet, yet haunting, backroads and fields of the plains. With most of its action being seen in an old abandoned church, a hick diner, an old ladies darkened house, and the county's police station. It reminded me of those old monster movies where a small town was being plagued by an evil creature (ex. Swamp Monster). And I enjoyed seeing this on the big screen again.In terms of the monster, The Creeper is right down to it BAD. He's the definition of a villain. No change of character whatsoever is seen by the Creeper. His one goal is to get what he wants, and nothing that may come in his way will change his sights, no pleading, no bargaining, he wont let up. This I liked, it really gave you the sense that he was out there to get them, and unless Darry and Trish found an incredibly smart way to shake him, or a method of killing him, they would have to run from him forever.Sure the ending may have been a little dark and dreary, but it ended in the way it should have ended. I personally found the ending to be EXTREMELY fitting for the film, anything else would have been a sad attempt at trying to make all the viewers happy. What was so great about it was it set up the idea that there may be a sequel, without just forcing it in last minute like a lot of movie's have before ('I Know What You Did Last Summer', the killer is alive and all of a sudden attacks Jennifer Love Hewitt at the last possible moment... too forced).The acting of a brother/sister relationship is really well done by Justin Long and Gina Philips, the Creeper does a great job at being a hated character, and overall payoff seemed well worth the time. I urge you to at least give this movie a try. It truly is a creepy and disturbing film that all horror fans should take a look at. "},{"Title":"Finally A Good Horror Movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was very pleased with this movie, it was actually scary. The scenes with The Creeper just standing there reminded me of Michael in Halloween, it's about time someone made an actual horror movie. I could have done without the creeper flying and all that, but hey it was still a great movie. Gave it a 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Horrid horror that manages to surprise (a little)","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, it starts like your run of the mill thriller, you expect stupidity beyond belief and you are not disappointed. You expect unrealism and there you are not disappointed once more.While the film is cheesy as nachos (or my analogies) it manages to spook you a few times, and I'm not easily spooked by films.The film is a tremendous letdown because toward the end they lose the fear factor by showing too much of the mystery. It was much better when they kept you guessing at how they'd put the stars in danger yet once more.The leading characters get away so many times that you end up watching the film to the end to figure out how they are gonna get tossed back into the fray.But any and all creativity the writers had ran out 3/4 of the way through the film. If you skip the last 20 minutes you'll enjoy it more since guessing at where the meandering minds of the writers went is the only thing that makes the film remotely interesting. "},{"Title":"A fair comment on a fairly bad movie","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To be truthful there was not much I enjoyed about this movie.  Actually I think there was only one real thing I enjoyed about it and that was the license plate.  BEATINGU.  Took me about a minute and a half to figure out it said B EATING U.  I admit I was slow on the uptake but it kept me interested for that minute and a half.It was very hard to keep focused on the film itself.  I found the plot boring.  The fiend as scary as the demon of the week on Buffy The Vampire Slayer.  The tune was as old as the dinosaurs.  I just really couldn't get into the film.  No offense to the people who enjoyed it though.  But I would rather listen to VH1 classic than watch it again. "},{"Title":"A lot of possibilities, too bad they didn't go after any of them.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story, other than getting away from the monster, wasn't very good. There were many chances to go deeper into the story, but it never went past the surface.  Ever.  Who was the monster? We know absolutely nothing about him. We were teased a little with the background of the two main characters, but did it ever go into it more than that?  Nope.  It may be leaving openings for sequels, but they could've done a little better.  I guess if you don't want to think, just sit there and absorb a simple story then it's okay. Most people want more than that.  At least I hope.  "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are expecting a horror movie, don't see this movie. If anything, this horrible movie is a comedy with it's rubbery looking corpses and closeups of the contact lenses in the monster's eyes. The only good thing about the movie is the trailer. MAYJORLY SUCKS!!! "},{"Title":"stylishly freaky","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  * Spoilers * Spoilers *This is probably one of the freakiest, oddest movie I have ever seen.  The movie follows Gina Phillips and Justin Long, brother and sister, on their way home.  On the road, they start being terrorized by somebody who is driving in an old, beatup truck with the license plate BeatNgU (It is not what Gina Phillips says it is.)  After they get terrorized,  brave little Justin Long decides to go down a shaft from which they saw somebody throw an old sheet down it.  When he gets down their he finds the most horrifying thing down there.  Now it is up to them to get the heck out of there alive.Overall this movie is stylishly freaky and was going good until the ending which threw it all away and stomped on it.  The ending leaves it open to a sequel which is coming out in 2003.  Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"7/10 - Above average horror movie","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Basically, Jeepers Creepers is your average horror movie in that it features nice-looking lead actors, a bit of gore, and a crazy psychic whom no-one believes (the crazy psychic bit doesn't just apply to horror films). It becomes a good film because of the creation of suspense and some nasty surprises that literally pop up from time to time. When the film ended, I felt that there were a few holes in the plot and it seemed to finish without actually clearing up any of the loose ends. How much did the psychic know? What was she trying to tell them? What the hell WAS that thing? etc etc. Also, the thing (whatever it was) - not scary once you can see it, quite funny actually! Looked a bit like a Sunnydale demon, kept expecting Buffy to jump in and slay the thing. Otherwise, a good film. Gave it a 7. "}{"Title":"Since Carpenter's Halloween that i wasn't so involved and at the same time entertained with a movie.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here is the proof that a good plot, a nice pair of actors and an excelent score can make a film work. Carpenter's legacy is continued. The girl is the hero and with a fine tune in humour we get a bad vilan, but also a cool vilan. Jeepers is by far much better thans 'slashes' Scream and I Still Know..., because it reaches the main purpose of them all, the 4 great Sto scare,  surprise,  seduce and  to smile.and we get out of the theatre with that  a big great smile of satisfaction!;)RIC "},{"Title":"Monster from the Midwest! 9/10","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Daring pure blooded monster flick that's just plain creepy.  Jeepers Creepers was one of the big surprises of 2001.  One of the few horror films I have seen that actually disturbed me.  Victor Salva shows that he has all the talent to be a true fright-master! "},{"Title":"fair comments of a bad movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm sorry to say but this film was very disappointing. The build up to this movie was enormous; it was classed as 'the scariest film ever' and 'brilliant'. Personally I don't think that those comments could be farther from the truth. I think Jeepers Creepers was a very poor film. It had a very very predictable plot line, the story just wasn't thought out. And the villain, well, very poor attempt at scary I have to say. For a horror it was a total let down and I would not recommend it to anyone who wants a good scary horror with a clever plot line and generally exciting thriller qualities, because it was none of these things.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Frightening, and Well Produced!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a surprising treat for horror fans. It has just the right amount of decent dialog, gimmicks, and gore. The cast Gina Philips, Justin Long, and Jonathan Breck as the creature couldn't have been picked better. And, the writer/director Victor Salva has an impressive list of credits and experience which really shows through on this film.The show starts with a brother and sister on their way home during college break when they witness what could be an attempted murder/serial killing in a rural setting. Things spiral out of control from there as the couple encounter demons, psychics, and a host of other horror movie related situations (I don't want to give too much away!)It is done with just the right amount of suspension-of-disbelief, which means that although the story takes a supernatural turn the cast and dialog make it somewhat believable if not at least palatable. This is rare in todays 8-year old Hollywood mentality where all bad guys/monsters have to have childish retorts, comebacks, and digs. Thank God the monster doesn't even talk in this movie. I'm so tired of seeing Freddy Krueger reborn in different guises elsewhere!The special effects are pretty good if not a tad bit gory, but that is a big plus to this genre movie. You can't have a good horror movie unless you are made to cringe once or twice, right? I like that little of the FX ,if any, is computer generated. So, the picture has a nice look and feel that most newer horror movies lack.Suspense is key to this movie. Just when you think things couldn't get worse they do. It keeps you on the edge of your seat as you watch to see how our protagonists will survive the next scene. Although this movie has a harder edge due to it's genre it is almost Hitchcockian in its use of suspense. This alone is worth the price of admission folks.The dialog strains a bit here and there but the great cast seems to make it work anyway. This movie at least tries to have natural dialog. Most Hollywood flicks have become so plastic with their stereotyped characters and dialog it is refreshing to see a genre film, which by its very nature is stereotyped, that tries to break that mold. I'm not saying they pulled it off completely, just that it is a valiant try by the writers and cast to portray real people in extreme situations. Kudos!Horror buffs will love this film! But make no mistake. This movie is an R rated horror genre film. Non-horror fans will probably not care for it. This movie is fun, frightening, and well produced. I highly recommend Jeepers Creepers! "},{"Title":"This is the worst film in the world - Possible Spoilers (If possible to spoil it further))","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Horror film protagonists have never come this stupid and that as you know really is saying something. This brother and sister coupling make a decision at the start of the film that completely ruined it for me. Basically the bit when instead of going to the nearest police station and reporting what may or may not at that time have been someone chucking a body down a chute they decide to go to the aforementioned chute and climb down it. This, I add, knowing that it is the haunt of a particulary psycho individual...... Ok there would have been no film if I imposed my end on it. But why?? would anybody else have gone back??? No (except possibly old Syd a la Scream) And then this killer turns out to be some kind of quirky goblin. Terrifying? Not at all. Sophisticated cinema audiences demand a killer who doesn't gobble along to third rate jazz music and who isn't necessarily some kind of supernatural joke. Some weird people found this frightening, so I suggest they go and watch something like Bambi because thats the only film I can think of that is less frightening. Like I said - the worst film in the world "},{"Title":"Another dumb monster movie.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Quite honestly, it's funnier than it is frightening.  (Perhaps it's frighteningly funny?)  In any case, kudos are deserved for the costuming; there were some very well-done bits there.  Everything else, from the acting to the writing to the directing, only smacks of incompetence, be it genuine or intentional.Hasn't Wes Craven brought us enough poorly-made horror movies to last us several lifetimes?  Do we need to be subjected to a rash of others from other equally maundering and hackneyed writer-directors as well?  Frankly, that thought in itself frightens me far more than this movie ever did.If you want a scary movie, watch Hitchcock.  If you're looking for something laugh-out-loud stupid, then this is right up your alley. "},{"Title":"My 2 year old mute brother could write a better screenplay.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There were so many things wrong with this movie i dont know where to begin. First off, you would think that with all the commercials and the time that Hollywood came out with this film they would have spent a bit more money on it. Everything including the dead bodies looked extremely fake even worse than like Friday the 13 number 1. Next, the two main characters..gina and whoever the hell else.....they sucked. My dogs could do better acting than them. It looked like they went to acting school for s***** and giggles because some of the expressions they had on their faces were just priceless...i mean come on be at least realistic a bit. Another thing...people are scared more eaily if the villain is human and at least has a chance at getting killed...this monster thing isnt scary because it is not reality-based...the ending of this movie was absoloutly horrible..note this..never start a movie if you dont know how to end it because that just sucked...the whole plot of stupid as welll!!! i cant belive i wasted my life on that!!! i would give FREDDY GOT FINGERED ***** compared to that piece of s***!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Piece of Crap","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented Jeepers Creepers based upon reviews from critics and individuals on the net.  This movie is the most predictable, over-acted, unscary piece of crap movie of the year.  I can not believe anyone gave this movie a good review.  Give me a cocktail napkin and a couple of seconds and I will write the sequel.  I just hope this does not start a franchise horror movie like Freddy and Jason.Die creeper die. "},{"Title":"Best horror/suspense/thriller in a long time","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is going to be a clasic.  It begins in true horror fashion, two teenagers all alone on a long stretch of highway in the middle of nowhere. It is clear that Salva is a fan of the old horror movies.  The landscape, the characters, the story. . . all beautifully chosen and crafted . . .a masterpiece.  Like the old Night of the Living Dead, another classic, it begins slow.  The viewers are kept in the dark about the identity of the creeper through most of the movie, preserving the mystique of the character until the final scenes.  We are able to form an attachment to the characters of Trish and Darry, two average teenagers who are about to meet a horrific destiny.  Salva creates such lifelike entities in them, we feel like we know them.  We care for this hapless pair, clueless as they are to the fate which awaits them.  We know it is coming and we dread what awaits them.  The ending as well is exciting.  Salva shocks us when the creature chooses Darry and makes away with him in the night.  We pray the movie isnt over and that Trish will find a way to save her doomed brother.  Finally a horror movie outside the pattern. . .crafted in a fashion unlike other modern day horror films.  Gina and Justin bring to life the brother and sister characters they play.  I can only hope that Salva's next work is as masterful as Jeepers Creepers.  What else can I say but . . .PERFECT! "},{"Title":"Turkey","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst Horror Movies i have ever sat through.The Brother And Sister in this movie have to be the most Stupid in Screen history.The fact that they were unlikable didnt help.Its not scary,takes too long to get going and where is the Ending?Pointless. "}{"Title":"just plain aweful","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers could very well be one of the worst movies i have ever seen.  If I would have turned off the movie half way through, I would have thought the movie was spectacular, but the second half was terrible.  The creature sucked, the song was stupid, and the idea was dumb.  When the movie ended I was so upset that I had to take a walk to calm down, in the mean time complaining to my friends who also thought the movie was terrible.  I do not recommend this movie to anybody, but if by chance you find yourself watching it, turn it off half way through to spare yourself the same disappointment I went through.   "},{"Title":"Duel meets Alien and it stinks","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this because like a lot of other people, I had seen some good reviews.  Well, this is one of the stupidest horror movies I have ever wasted my time on.  There is at least one image referred to as a Sistine Chapel depiction which was indeed disturbing.  Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, the writing and the story itself were both deplorably stupid. Too bad they couldn't think of how to end it either (my wife and I both just kind of looked at each other when the credits rolled, like what?!?!.  I read another review saying this was much better than Powder which was directed by the same director.  Whoever has that opinion should attend some film making classes or grow up, one of the two.  Powder was a very good film, this one stinks.  "},{"Title":"So Much Wasted Potential...","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  	I had read many reviews of Jeepers Creepers, calling it a modern horror masterpiece and a tragically overlooked film.  This, and the fact that the TV trailers left such a big secret as to what the monster was, left very high expectations for this film.  It's too bad that the film lives up to none of them, especially after it has such a promising beginning.	There are several things about the film's first half hour that makes it so interesting.  The first is the relationship between our hero and heroine; instead of being lovers or even best friends, Trish and Darry are brother and sister.  The two constantly bicker, with Trish in particular being extremely critical of her brother's actions in the situation (there are even a few sly things you shouldn't to in a horror movie comments), but when terror strikes, all is instantly forgiven as safety becomes the prime concern.  This development of realistic characters is always appreciated in a horror movie, since the audience can safely empathize with them without feeling cheated, sarcastic, or stupid.  The other great accomplishment of the first half of the film is the pace, slow and dark until a sudden attack by a phantom truck, an appearance by the eerie phantom figure or the infamous revelation at the other end of the tube.  This, along with the score (commercially unavailable, its quite excellent, and perhaps the only part of the film that is actually underrated), creates a little bit of genuine suspense.	What happened to such potential? The second half of the movie comes and takes it all to hell.  The eerie phantom figure is revealed as The Creeper, a laughable Buffy or Special Unit 2 reject (the only way he could have been even sillier, as a thankfully-deleted scene on the DVD showed, was if he had lines).  The Creeper's background, related by useless and annoying psychic/crazy old lady Jazz, is just as frustratingly laughable (in the kind consideration of those who actually want to see the film, I won't spoil it here - but try and keep a straight face when the details get more and more absurd, I couldn't!) and rife with plot holes.  The most annoying aspect of all is that the mystery about the title is never cleared up beyond the probable case that writer/director Victor Salva had a bet with someone that he could make a film with an old swing song for a gimmick that would not only get green-lighted by the studio, but actually turn a profit.  The careful pace is chucked away, as the creature goes on a rampage, with killings of random characters that are neither suspenseful, scary, or even really gory.  The ending is hardly unexpected, but can still be perceived as shocking thanks to the earlier character development, mentioned earlier as one of the few things the film did right.	Jeepers Creepers started out as a great film that I really wanted to like, but degrades so bad its almost like two different movies by two different teams.  The second half is really more boring than anything else - though it has the potential to become a campy midnight favorite.  As a serious horror film, however, I haven't seen something this overrated that failed to deliver since The Blair Witch Project. "},{"Title":"Thats not my scarecrow?!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Most films like The Exorcist, Friday the 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street, and Halloween rocked the 70's and 80's. I believe that Jeepers Creepers is going to rock the 2000's!(?)This movie is sharp and surprising and it delivers. I reccomend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Better than what I expected.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really didn't have high hopes for this movie, it seemed stupid, but I heard it had some scary moments, so I decided to rent it.  I am glad I did, it was good from the start.  The actors were really good in there parts, I like the crazy cat lady.  But the creeper was so weird looking, also it made the movie seem more scary with the creeper driving that old truck and trying to run people off the road.  This was truly a great movie.My score  5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"This movie was horrible","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The only redeeming points this movie has to offer is good timing that can make you jump.  Most of the special effects were horrible, the plot or lack of it was horrendous, and factual and technical shortfallings were ludicrous.  The only way I'd suggest seeing this movie is if MST3K is revived and they're sitting in front of it. "},{"Title":"Get a grip, people","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The way some citizen reviewers are taking on over Jeepers Creepers, you'd think its makers had set out to supplant Citizen Kane.  Get a grip, people.  This was a modest little fright film - a very good one.  It turned most of the conventions on their heads - specifically, resisting the urge to tack on a happy ending, a fault common to many of these genre films, even when doing so necessitates twisting the screenplay into a pretzel; also noteworthy making the guy the vulnerable character, hoping his SISTER would rescue him, instead of the usual, breast-heaving, libidinous female bimbo, beloved of horror movies, waiting for the big, strong man to rescue her. More to the point, I assumed, several times during this film, that I knew what would happen; the authors of the screenplay anticipated my reaction, and pulled the rug out from under me.  For that, I applaud them.  Novelty is in short supply in SequelWorld.  Jeepers Creepers took risks; and I salute them for it.  "},{"Title":"Simply awful - 1 of 10","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am very surprised that this movie has a rating of 5.5.  It isn't that good.  The movie sets up fairly well, although I was rolling my eyes within 10 minutes.  But then, it sinks into a very low-budget type B movie.  Utter garbage.  Don't waste your time, unless C-Span is really boring you. "},{"Title":"What a waste of film!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie made me want to cry out of boredom and pity for Justin Long, who I thought had quite a talent. What a waste of time and film! It was as though every bad decision made during any horror movie was made by the two main characters as they try desperately to escape the evil clutches of.... Batman? Well, that's all I can say for the make-up. The acting was atrocious, (so, how many people have you seen run into a crowded diner, scream for someone to call the police, and have everyone in there look at them like they're disturbing their meal?) The plot was so poorly written that the viewer feels totally confused by the half-way point. And it don't get much better from there. In fact, it manages to leave the story with holes big enough to shove your fist through. And the ending?.... Well, I'm not going to spoil it for those of you that still feel like wasting $5, but it left something to be desired.... awww shucks.... I'll just come out and say it.... This ending must be the WORST ending to any movie I've ever seen. It's not like you didn't see it coming, though. Bottom Line This movie hit rock bottom and someone threw it a shovel. "},{"Title":"Wot a waste of time that was!!!!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeez, i've never seen such poor acting and such a stupid plot! The film had potential to be really good and started off pretty scary but then, jeez, then it turned into a cheap 70's looking horror flick - abysmal! "}{"Title":"An unexpected gem","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  We checked this out with the usual low expectation of a low-budget unknown (always liked the song - hehe).  We were surprised by the natural banter between the siblings, the chilling development of the creeper (from that awesome horn to the full blown effect of the visual).  There was nothing silly or typical about the product, the actors were up to the performance, the writing was much better than the usual pedestrian affair and we were riveted by the whole production.  Not surprising that Coppola was one of the producers here.  Bravo!  "},{"Title":"absolutely the worst","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The beginning was interesting and did keep you on the edge of the seat, but as soon as he turned into a devil with wings, it was probably one of the worst movies Ii have ever seen. I can't believe they are thinking about making a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Terrible. Disgrace, This is just a stupid movie.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this DVD from Rogers Video and it wasnt working, so I brought it back and exchanged it for another copy. When I got the other one, I started to watch the movie, and it was EXCELLENT (for the first 30 mins.), It was great until then, but the rest was just stupid, didnt make sense, not very scary, (not to mention the terrible graphics, dead people are visibly dolls, plus the DVD was skipping and freezing all over). So in 4 simple words, THIS MOVIE SUCKS ****! "},{"Title":"A consise summing up of a poor, poor film","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With the exception of maybe Four Weddings and a Funeral this has to be the worst film ever made.  EVER Come on people, anyone who thought this trash was in the slightest bit inventive, scary or surprising must have been watching a different film. From the very start the two characters were annoying, bad actors, and had a script that George Lucas would have disguarded in disgust. The killer was rubbish, the plot tame, the killings boring and lacking in scaryness or invention.  Overall, this film stunk so bad that I wasn't the only one who left the cinema at the end wanting my money back. Total rubbish. Neil  "},{"Title":"Hated it!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably the worst movie I have ever seen.They could not decide how menacing to make the bad guy so they threw a little bit of everything in - what a mess!The least irritating character was the crazy clairvoyant.Only see this movie if you really want to get angry. "},{"Title":"Where'd they get this stinker? CONTAINS SPOILER","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half of this movie actually caught my attention and pulled me in. I felt some of the terror as I watched.  It was getting to me as a scary movie should.  But then.... HERE COMES A SPOILER the villain metamorphosizes into some kind of fantasy devil with sharp teeth and bat-like wings--how predictably Hollywood!  As the demonic threatening image in long cloak and wide-brimmed hat with disheveled hair, the monster is truly scary.  He is menacing, threatening, and downright scarey.  After the change, however, the movie quickly careens downhill and becomes laughable. During the first part, all is suggestion that which makes the slasher/horror films like Friday, the 13th and Halloween great.  The villain is also in the dark or silhouetted, a danger ready to pounce. That's how The Creeper is in the first part of the movie. Human-like, he is a real threat; devil-like he is an animatronic joke.  Please, oh please, do NOT make a Jeepers Creepers II!  "},{"Title":"One of the all-time worst movies!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rarely has there been a movie that started out with such promise but deteriorated into such garbage. The first half of the movie focuses on two teenagers who see something but are not completely sure about what they have witnessed.  After some investigation (involving a course of action which no one would ever undertake in real life but without which we couldn't have scary movies), the teen's worst fears are confirmed.  Making matters worse, it is now after them!  The movie does a good job of building up the suspense and keeping you on the edge of your seat UNTIL the scene in which it is finally revealed.  At this point, the movie crashes and burns. The remainder of the movie is an absolutely idiotic collection of events that make no sense.  Nothing of any use is revealed to the viewer to help make sense of the steadily unraveling plot.  A psychic woman shows up to supposedly explain what is happening, but she turns out to be completely WRONG!  No explanation for this discrepancy is provided.  The end of the movie is a (bad) joke, but by this point the viewer is just glad to see it come to an end.  Although the acting is good and the set-up superb, the total disintegration of the story puts this movie in the category of the worst movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"A different perspective on Jeepers Creepers","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, if you go into Jeepers Creepers expecting it to scare you or to be a horror film, then forget about it, you'll probably be disappointed.  I found myself in the movie theater hating the way the main characters were acting, but once I looked at the film as almost a spoof on horror movies, I got a whole new respect for what was going on.  Part of the way through the movie I even started to route FOR Jeepers Creepers, and let me tell you, doing so made the film all that much more enjoyable.  If you look at it from my perspective, you'll most likely find yourself laughing at what's going on and enjoying the film quite a bit more.  If you don't view it as a spoof or just try to watch it just like another horror film, you're going to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"At least it was better than Steel...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ... and that's the only good thing I can say about this film.  Are you really supposed to root for the monster in a scary movie?  I was desperately hoping he'd put those two idiot teenagers out of my misery sooner than he did, I'm very disappointed in the Creeper. See, when I see something happening, like, say, a monster that is immortal hunting me down or walking towards me or eating a decapitated cop, I like to run for my life.  The wonder-twins here like to stare at the impending horror with their mouths and eyes agape and then proceed to argue about stupid brother-sister things, instead. I wish these teens in horror movies would stop buying their cars from Gear Shifts Don't Work 'R Us or Car Won't Start 'R Us, it may be a little more pricey from other dealers but I guarantee it'll help in the long run. Look, this movie stank.  That's all that really needs to be said.  If you think this movie was innovative, clever, or surprising, then you REALLY need to get out of the house more or watch some other movies or open your eyes and expose yourself to the world around you.  The ending wasn't clever or surprising, the monster wasn't scary, and every time there was a level of silence I wasn't jumping out of my chair when something/someone unexpectedly jumped onto the scene. Oh, and I love the fact that after the horror is complete at the end the police station the whole fiasco took place in was back up and running like nothing happened even though every cop there saw another cop get his heart torn out by the big bad monster.  Way to go, America's Finest! "},{"Title":"Unimpressive 'by-the-numbers' horror flick that totally misses its mark.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I really wanted to like JEEPERS CREEPERS, but there was not one single moment in the film that made me jump. A lot of reviewers applauded the film during its theatrical run, mainly on the guise that this movie was truly terrifying and that it was a welcome entry into the genre that most film-makers these days simply have no idea about. On that premise alone, I thought this movie would be something different... that it would have things that movies like I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, URBAN LEGEND, SCREAM and yes, even WISHMASTER, didn't have. Strangely enough, I could not find a scrap of difference that JEEPERS CREEPERS had to offer that would supposedly make it different from the hundreds of other horror films out there that get released 'straight-to-video'.The problem with this film is that the two lead characters, brother and sister (played by Gina Phillips and Justin Long) are so darn annoying that you will find yourself rooting for the 'monster' half the time because their endless squabbling and inexcusable stupidity starts to dig into your nerves.The two are on a road trip returning home from College to see their mother in an unknown State. The landscape consists of mostly farmland and cornfields and it won't be two minutes into the film until you're already thinking of CHILDREN OF THE CORN and TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE. Of course this spells trouble for the two as they become victims of a mysterious 'road rager' who rams their car from behind in some sort of 'Munsters'-like contraption that is pieced together by rusted metal and juiced up with some cool acceleration fluid that allows the said vehicle to speed around them at an unexplainable speed.Fortunately at this point, the terrorizing vehicle is about the ONLY thing in this movie that seems 'creepy'. Further trouble is spelled out for the siblings as they pass an old boarded-up church and recognize the same vehicle that rammed their car earlier, parked out the front. A man clad in a leather slicker (yep, start thinking I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER) is dumping a body wrapped in a white sheet down a corrugated-iron pipe and before you know it, the two meddling siblings are playing detective and investigating the situation after the stranger drives off in his vehicle.Naturally, in a film like JEEPERS CREEPERS, you can't for a second take anything that happens in this movie seriously. So when the brother ends up inside the tunnel to discover a horrific finding that involves a corpse with his bodily organs recently extracted and countless petrified bodies glued to the walls and ceiling in some sort of underground cavern, it will only be a natural reaction that you will find yourself shaking your head in disgust at how cliche'd this is turning out to be.With the siblings now on the run to report this monstrosity to the local 'hick' authorities, they have the 'monster' closely on their pursuit and naturally put everyone else in danger who they happen to come into contact with. That would also include Eileen Brennan who makes an inexcusable cameo in this movie as a half-crazy shotgun-wielding cat lover who makes the most of her four minutes on screen battling the 'monster' inside her house before suffering a very nasty demise.Another major problem with JEEPERS CREEPERS is that the 'monster' featured in this movie is not exactly scary or creepy. He looks like a regular character that could be featured on an episode of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and the things he does aren't exactly 'horrific'. The body count is very low for a horror movie. Most horror buffs won't find much pleasure here seeking out a high gore count as most of the killings usually involve a quick death by way of organ extraction or decapitation.Understanding that this movie was made on a relatively small budget, you can excuse the bad make-up effects where the corpses resemble department store mannequins. The monster itself has very weak motives. His reasons for killing are not explained very well. A psychic advises the sister that he kills his victims and removes a certain body part so it will become a part of him in its place (think of THE MUMMY and the bodies it consumed to make it a 'whole' being). The bad news for the siblings is that it is after one of them in particular because he or she has something that it wants (most likely a body part or two).Some ridiculous scenes would include a police station and the obligatory 'bumbling' cops who, even in a pack of 10, could not manage to hold a monster at bay with their whole firearms arsenal. With that being said, the ending is about the only satisfying thing that I felt that I got out of this movie. What happens, I cannot say. But let's just say that the 'monster' got what he wanted.The only bad thing about the ending is that it leaves the door open for an eventual and probable sequel that no one was really asking for. JEEPERS CREEPERS wants to be a good horror film, but in a week from now, I'll have already forgotten it.My Rating 3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"worst movie I've ever seen (SPOILER)","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie in a sneak preview yesterday... I had almost decided to walk out on the movie (and as far as I remember I have never done that before), but decided to stay and see if it improved.This movie is downright awful. The beginning is slightly promising, but the lines of the main characters are cheesy and really irritating and their actions are too dumb to even understand. And when the bad 'thing' is revealed even that tiny bit of promise is gone.I'm not going to name all the stupid things of this movie, read the other comments they say it all... BTW the ending, although rather original (head with the eyes ripped, bad 'thing' looking through), really gave me the *SEQUEL*-alert I was not surprised there is already a sequel in the making...Closing I give a comment of a friend who watched the first half of the movie as well I never walked out on a movie before, because I always have hope that the second half will be better (I even endured Music from the heart with Merryl Streep), but this movie really forced me to go away.Although I don't agree with the 'Music from the heart'-part (a movie I rather enjoyed), his comment says it all.Mark  "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have not seen a movie this poor (in my opinion)in quality since the meatballs with the alien(in my opinion).  I felt that this movie was so poor that I needed to register on this site just to voice my comments.  The script was extremely ridiculous and as a viewer, with other viewers in the room, I found myself constantly screaming, oh come on!.  Make no mistake this movie was POOR.  The characters had absolutely no common sense, the special effects were second rate, and on top of this a poor attempt was made to make the movie scary by hacking Fallen with Denzel Washington by playing a catchy jingle every time there was about to be trouble.  There are two things scary about this movie.  THE TRUCK was scary, I will give the producers that.  The other thing that is scary is that people forked over hard earned dollars to watch this blither blather.  $7.50 a ticket for that? I would give double that just to have the last two hours of my life back. I rate this as not only a not rent but even a not stop while flipping through the channels. "},{"Title":"a movie nobody needs at all.....","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  the movie is extrem violent, uses shocking effects and the night after you couldn't sleep very well.furthermore the story is kind of strange and not really convincing, neither logical. "},{"Title":"This is a REAL horror movie!!!!!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"                                 Minor SpoilersWe just rented Jeepers Creepers the day it came out on video and we just couldn`t wait to see it.The movies` begining is really scary and it I think it was one heck of a beginning.Its was very scary.I was really impressed by the terror and the shock that this movie gives you! It`ll keep you going on for a long while.The creature/monster/killer what ever he was was sure awesome.I like how he drove that old truck and put on his long black coat and hat and he sure knows how to use an axe aswell.The ending will shock you and I hope there will be a sequel to Jeepers Creepers real soon because I can`t wait to see him back in action.By the way,be on the look out for a Creeper action figure by McFarlane Toys in a future Movie Maniacs series. "},{"Title":"Simple but scary )","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film has it all, it's simple with good actors and scares the hell out of you, exactly how a good movie should be! I hope Part 2 will be this good too!!I simply say...buy and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great horror movie, creepy special effects","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the few horror movies to come out that I actually enjoyed watching from start to finish. I have no problems recommending this movie to anyone that likes the horror genre. Go see movies to do what I do, be entertained.Don't listen to those R.E. types that have no idea what they're talking about, and only like letterboxed foreign films about gay cowboys dieing of AIDS.Escape, go see this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of this genre in recent memory","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into to see this movie with great expectations... and I have to tell you, I was not let down but I was *very* surprised. You see, it was not what I was expecting but what I got was more than satisfied. Im afraid this is one of those 'Blair Witch' films... you are either going to love it or hate it; there is no go between.I myself absolutely love horrors and my top horror flicks include films like Blair Witch Project, The Exorcist and What Lies Beneath. The first relying completely on your own imagination wreaking havoc on you, the Exorcist is a masterpiece from the late 70s bringing you the most disturbing horror straight in your face and most recently, What Lies Beneath, which is a beautiful piece of silent and sudden shocks through out. As far as I can see, each is horror pure and simple but working in very different ways. And Jeepers Creepers belongs right there with them but introducing a new way of looking at it.Another viewer made a perfect comment here talking about audience reactions.. you see, it seems audiences are reacting the same everywhere. They are jumping out of their seats in certain scenes, other times they are screaming at the pair on the screen for being so stupid and curious for their own good (the ultimate horror cliche.. will they ever learn.. that those kids!), gasping in sheer disgust at certain scenes etc etc.Hold on.. isnt that what you get from horror films? And out of the three mentioned before, while each did its own thing, none achieved all of these together. But Jeepers Creepers manages to raise tension, has no problems laughing at itself and paying homage to everything horror films has brought before and introduces a horror 'villian' that will be hard to forget for some time. And the ending... well Ill leave that for you but I was certainly very pleased with it.Simply put, if you honestly love horrors, you will love this - it pays tribute to all the best ones and seems to have the best of everything. Don't be put off by all the negative criticisms here... the critics loved it and they never love anything ), and it seems to have broken box office records too. Loved it!Plus I can't get that song out of my head either.. argh!'Jeepers, Creepers, where'd you get those peeeepers' 'Jeepers, Creepers, where'd you get those eyes?!' "},{"Title":"huh, what?","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, first of all...what the crap was with the killer?  I'm not going to give anything away, since there are some who haven't seen it...The movie totally had me until they showed the killer.  It was ruined after that.Ok, I liked the fact that they made the female lead the smarter one. Usually, that's bestowed on the males.  Nice for a change.The beginning sequence with the chase had me on the edge of my seat.  Very nice.  All that, however, we ruined with the...well...you know if you've seen it...the part right after they think he's dead.This coulda been something...but it turns out..it was nothing.1 "},{"Title":"Rebirth of true Horror.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A very slick, fast-paced movie, with no let-up in the tension.It has been a long time since an out and out horror movie like this came out.I'm sure now we'll be bombarded with a slew of copycat movies. The acting was superb, the sequence gripping,the visual effects just right. Being a horror buff I wasnt this satisfied after a movie since 'Event Horizon'. Rush out and see it before someone spoil the fun by giving out the details. "},{"Title":"Not your average gorefest horror film.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is one of the best Horror films I've seen to date. I enjoyed it much more than Halloween, Scream, or your run of the mill, hack and slash, blood and guts teen horror movie. The visuals were first rate, and the script was fantastic. If you haven't seen it yet, do so. It is well worth $8. I give it a 10/10. "}{"Title":"Creepy atmospheric horror film","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a great horror film that creates a spooky atmosphere. The monster itself is very eerie, and the film even has its share of jumps. I think it deserves a way better score than what it has right now, but I can see that this film isn't for everyone.If you want to see a slasher film that is actually scary, see this one. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"An Old-Fashioned Tale of Horror!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie packs a wallop! It scares the living daylights out of you, and that's just the first 10 minutes! I had high expectations for this film, and they were met (and succeeded) in every department. The story was very creepy, sort of the campfire story you would tell to your friends on a Saturday night. The cast is awesome, especially with Justin Long and Gina Phillips in the lead roles of Dari and Trish. Originally, I thought this would be a regular and ordinary moster movie, but it turned out to be something different intelligent and scary as H*ll! GO AND SEE IT WITH YOUR FRIENDS THIS INSTANT!!! "},{"Title":"Awful...just plain awful","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having just removed myself of an hour and a half at the movie house, watching something that tries to pass itself off as a horror movie I find myself asking the question Why was this movie made?  It starts out the first 15 minutes of a brother and sister bickering like little kids, not acting like young adults they try to portray.  The bad guy visually looks nice, but he has absolutely no substance and in the wake of classics like Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloweeen, etc., this bad guy (who has no cool name) is more on the level of Barney that Jason.  I refuse to spoil the movie, far be it from me to tell you NOT to see this movie and waste your time and money, but it has THE worst ending of ANY movie I have seen in many, many years.  BEWARE!!!! "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if you are a horror movie fan","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTOkay, so the man-eating demon comes out every 23 years for 23 victims (I think that's what was said), and that's ALL we know about him. Not knowing the killer's origin really makes his character two dimensional. However, the story still has a very cool plot, but the ending leaves much to be desired. I don't regret seeing Jeepers Creepers, but it could have been so much more. Maybe we'll see a better sequel that sheds more light on the killer. "},{"Title":"scared out of my shorts!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i went to see this movie to get a cheap thrill out of watching my best friend. you see, the slightest thing scares the crap out of her and she screams bloody murder at little things like gardner snakes(the same reason i went to see hannibal). also, i love the main character, also known as warren on the tv show ed and thought that he may do a good acting job in this movie. not expecting to be scared at all, because i have yet to be scared at a scary movie, this movie was quite the thrill for me. i thoroughly enjoyed it for the story line and also the suspense that keeps you on the edge of your seat for the entire show. if you tend to be scared by the average movie, beware!   "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror flicks I've seen in a long time.  It was more of an older-style film, and wasnt nearly as predictable or disappointing as movies like Scream and I know what you did last summer.  The soundtrack was great, all of the songs fit into the movie very well (Although the lack of new songs might disappoint some people).  Even before you come face to face with the villian of the movie, the suspense keeps increasing.  There were a few bits of comedy used to lighten the mood, as there are in most movies, and those bits were golden.  The villian himself was a classic, and the story behind the movie was great.  This is one of the few movies I've found worth the $8.25 to go see (The last one being Road Trip).  If your looking for a scream clone, go elsewhere, but if you want a good, original horror flick go see Jeepers Creepers. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The people who don't like this movie are idiots. They are unimaginitive brain dead re-re's who don't recognize great horror when they see it. Anyway...Jeepers Creepers is a great horror movie. Sure, I was put off by the kind-of-lame title, but I damn glad I put that behind me and saw the film. It is everything a horror movie should be and more. It has suspense, gore, laughs, and bird symbolism. This movie is actually scary, no matter what anybody says. And as for realism, this is actually one of the most realistic (in terms of what would go on if something like JC actually happened) horror movies I've seen in awhile. What it may lack in proper character development (tell me the last horror movie you saw that didn't...) it makes up for in an original plot and clever devices that got to even me... and I'm a fairly jaded moviegoer.This movie is far superior to any horror film that came out this year, and is well worth full admission. Don't listen to boneheads who probably aren't even horror fans anyway. Go see it, you'll thank me! "},{"Title":"Excellent Direction","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nicely shot and directed.  Characters seemed very real.  I love the way Victor can place his characters in unusually disturbing events.  Very unpredictable and unique.  Ending could have been improved.  I wanted to see Trish save her brother Darryl at the end. Seemed like the movie lacked an Act 3 ALL TOGETHER;  only a very well developed act one and two.  Victor is one of the most underrated Directors of Hollywood and I look forward to seeing many more of his producitons.I love Tom Tarantini's cameos in all of Victor's movies. He has  had a brief cameo in all of Victor's movies since Nature of the Beast.Victor & Tom  If you guys are reading this do you remember S Cain and myself and our film Alma? Thanks for the company!  "},{"Title":"What's scary is that some people thought this was good.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One reviewer said that since it's a horror movie, people are expected to do dumb things.  Sure, if the writer/director has no imagination.  I don't recall that anybody did anything especially dumb in PSYCHO or THE EXORCIST.  Things followed pretty much logically from a premise.But this movie has no detectable premise.  This time we can blame the script, since the director IS the writer.  But maybe there was no script; it just seemed to be made up as it went along. Maybe this guy thinks it's cool to make up stuff on the set.  If so, maybe he should go back to film school.The expectation that people do dumb things in horror movies just shows the level to which these movies have sunk.  The first rule of character development is MOTIVATION.  You have to have a good reason to do something, and then you have to act with a little common sense--AND THEN you still fall into the monster's clutches.  And speaking of motivation, what motivation does the monster here have?  Why is he doing these things?  Is he a demon?  A cannibal?  A cannibal-demon?  And who cares?As far as the two leads go, they may be able to act, but it was difficult to tell, since very little of it was required.  The guy saw something horrible, then becomes way too traumatized afterward.  Struck speechless.  Of course, he seems to be someone with very limited communication skills in the first place.  This is one of those movie which Roger Ebert referred to in which there would be no movie if anyone said or did the obvious thing.And the camera was always cutting to the horror-stricken, panicky look on the guys face.  It got really boring.I think the general deterioriation of horror movies is shown by remakes of CARNIVAL OF SOULS and of THE HAUNTING. Maybe someday we'll again see true horror, done with intelligence, wit, and a mimimum of F/X. "},{"Title":"This movie is over rated!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is really over rated.. It claimed to be the scariest movie in year... Yeah cause in the last 5 years there have been like 3 good scary movies. I think that the guy lookes really cool BUT its really fake.. I would not wanna see it again.. "}{"Title":"brilliant shid","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The negative reviews for this are hilarious!!!! Makes you wonder what the f****  these people actually DO like...frightening to contemplate.Loved this movie. 10/10...up there with A.I., Freddie Got Fingered, and Wet Hot American Summer for best of the year. "},{"Title":"This movie gave my wife the creeps","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     This movie builds its fear on tension.  This style is better than what the majority of horror films do, where gore and shock is the catalyst for fear.  They say anticipation of death is worse than death itself, which is what this film is all about.  When they stumble upon Jeeper Creeper, we do not know if it is a man or beast.  It methodically stalks its victims, and when night falls, the fear worsen. The conclusion ties up all loose ends, along with a shocking memorable ending. "},{"Title":"Stupid White People","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With all the hype surrounding this movie, I expected something more...especially given the supposed quote from Clive Barker about how good this was. SPOILERS Imagine my disappointment to see that it is nothing more than poorly-defined characters in a poorly-defined situation doing the same old stupid things that get white teenagers killed in every other horror film since the genre was invented.  The irony is that at one point the sister says to her brother, as he is about to go into the scary pipe to search for possible dead bodies, You know that point in every horror movie where somebody does something stupid and everybody hates him for it?  This is one of those times.The whole movie is filled with those times and if you are worried about knowing what happens in a completely predictable film, then don't read on. When the big, huge truck comes barrelling up behind, do they get out of the way?  No, of course not.  They simply swerve all over the road rather than pulling over, despite the fact that the sister is screaming for her brother to do just that.  When the truck pulls up beside them, do they slam on the brakes to let it pass?  No, of course not.  They rev up and pull in front of him again.  When they stop to see what has happened to the police escort and they see the bad guy, do they immediately run away and put some distance between them?  No, of course not.  They stick around to watch him eat somebody.  When the bad guy is blocking the road and she tries to run the bad guy over and he leaps over the car, does she count it as a blessing that the way is clear now and get out of Dodge?  No, of course not.  She has to try and get him in reverse, only to have him jump again.  And then she taunts the guy.And, of course, none of these characters are fleshed out in any sense.  We know the sister is having guy troubles, but we never hear anything about what it is or why it is motivating her, despite the fact that they make a very big deal out of it.  When the brother has a harrowing experience, he goes into and out of shock as if only to make things frustrating for his sister.  The bad guy just is, even though he's set up with an ancient reason for his existence...that never gets explained or has anything to do with anything so why bother mentioning it?At least with the Blair Witch Project, even though you never see whatever it is that's after them, they put some back story into the concept.  This movie has none.  There's no point to the protagonists, there's no point to the antagonist, there's no point to the victims...there's no point to even see the movie. "},{"Title":"I paid how much to see this?!?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, I just read the first user review of the film and I can't help but wonder if the person who wrote it works for the movie studio.  Apparently the person responsible for this...thing was also the person who brought us Powder, which didn't do well at the box office, but was still an interesting movie.Anyway, I went to see Jeepers Creepers last night and...well, to say I didn't like it would be an understatement.  This film was all over the place, with aspects of the plot thrown together for no particular reason.Above all else, they made the mistake of giving us a good look at the Creeper way too soon into the movie.  The monster is much scarier when you can't see them clearly, especially if the monster looks as bad as the Creeper.  This was just a bad movie... "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, this movie was horrible.  The monster  why, what is he, why does he do what he does.  The male and female lead  Hated them, they were irritating.  The script was so stupid and pointless.  I have never done this before, I have never voted or written a comment on a film, but this was such a waist of time and money, I had to.  Francis Ford Coppola should be ashamed that he had anything to do with this film. "},{"Title":"Avoid this film like the plague","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Are you serious?  Francis Ford Coppola attached his name to this film? This is, without a doubt, one of the WORST excuses for a film I've seen in quite some time.  This is absolutely ridiculous.  There is not one redeeming quality to this film.  It's not scary.  It's not funny.  It employs every horror flick cliche ever used before.  The plot doesn't make a lot of sense and the characters are morons. Absolute garbage - save your money "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **SPOILERS** Just as a forewarning to my comments, this movie is easily one of the worst I have ever seen.  EVER!  I went through as much pain as any of the characters who bit the big one in this flick. As I came to imdb.com to complain about this terrible monstrosity of a movie, I realized that right there on the main details page was a comment of, Terrific, sharp and surprising.  The only surprise I witnessed was the ratio of people who walked out to the number of people I thought were going to walk out.  Sharp?  About as sharp as a dull, dull pencil.  The characters engage in long, endless drones of conversation ABOUT NOTHING AT ALL!  At various points in the movie I wished they would be killed instantaneously because they were extremely annoying. Plot, anyone?  Nope, none at all.  Plot hole?  Now, we're talking about the whole movie, which turned out to be one big plot hole.  *SPOILERS AHEAD* The church burned down supposedly, but there they are at the end, in the basement again.  And where did the bad guy come from?  Why only the twenty third summer for only twenty-three days?  Where did the van come from, why is it so fast?  Why did I not walk out of this movie?  What the hell is the killer supposed to be?  Why can the killer be run over to deformation, not to mention being blown away by a double-barrel shotgun, but handguns do nothing?  Why was it necessary to sew the bodies together?  Why, oh why, did I pay eight bucks for this? Please do not waste your money on this terrible, terrible example of how bad cinema gets.  I could complain for hours on end, but I'm sure I'm not the only one who hated this movie.  "},{"Title":"A total waste of time...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is my opinion and the shared opinion of two other people that viewed this travesty of a horror film along with me, that Jeepers Creepers is a complete waste of time. That is approximately an hour and a half of my life that I can't get back. It was incredibly predictable. Every time something in the movie occured, it wasn't a surprise. I wasn't remotely scared at any point during this film. My only fear is that someone would buy this movie on video or DVD, or pay full price to see it at the theatres. I am so highly disappointed... "},{"Title":"awful awful","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers creepers sure will have you on the edge of your seat but not for long. After about 20 minutes u are kinda wishing the monster would just eat the main characters. They just don't go fast enough. the movie is very slow. Save your money and find another way to scare yourself silly.  "},{"Title":"How Sad","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just sadly enough sat through the entire hour and thirty minutes of Jeepers Creepers. A friend who saw the movie with me tried to get me to leave halfway through it. I had an idea that it would sooner or later have a redeemable quality somewhere in it. I was just totally wrong. From beginning till end there is not one single scene in this movie that was ever interesting. The ending though I will not reveal it was the worst ending ever in any movie. In most movies no matter how horrible I say at least one thing about it. The one good thing about this movie was after an hour and thirty minutes it ends. This movie gets a 1 out of 10 only because there is no 0. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Freddy Krueger, Jason, and Michael Meyers have all been dead and gone for awhile now. There definitly needs to be a replacement.. A token boogey man. Unfortunately, Jeepers Creepers doesn't supply such a beast. A solid horror film should have good plot outline, character development, and eventually, a _reason_ for the carnage. The watching audience should be able to answer the question Why?. Jeepers Creepers doesn't satisfy any of the normal expectations of a horror film. This movie was both written and directed by Salva, who seemed to think of nothing but marketing while creating his incomplete ideas. The bad guy doesn't even have a name. The door is wide open for a sequal, simply because the first movie didnt do anything it should have. The only positive thing I can say about this movie is that you do get a good jump from time to time.The next boogey man is right around the corner, but not in Jeepers Creepers. Dont see this movie in the theaters. Wait for it on video. "},{"Title":"who gave the ok to make this awful movie","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was just plain bad. Too bad, because the story line had potential and the special effects were pretty good. There was no plot development and no development of the creeper. Who was he, where did he come from and things like that. "},{"Title":"What could have been, but wasn't.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie starts with what could be an interesting plot line but fumbles it very early in the movie. Several characters have little or no purpose in the movie (Namely the black Psychic who says you're going to die. Hmmmmm, I didn't see that one coming). There is no explanation as to whether the monster is a demon or what not, and little or no information given about it. Guess the script writer couldn't think of something creative or even copy something to make it more plausible. I know chinese movies seem to becoming more popular, but if you're just going to kill most of the characters in the end, you should at least not give it away in the middle of the movie. Overall a pretty crumy movie. "},{"Title":"Save your money!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The worst part of this film was learning that Francis Ford Coppala wasted his money on it as an executive producer. The acting is a bit contrived, but no worse than what you might find on an bad TV show. No, what kills this film is that it trys to go back to a formula that worked in the 80's. Unfortunately, the teenager making the stupid mistake in this day and age simply doesn't work. The story is quite aweful. Why is this demon around? Why does it eat? What's the deal with the Madame Cleo-ish woman with visions? Why can't these people afford good CGI?All in all, the WORST film to come out in this genre in a long while.  "},{"Title":"This makes scream look like snow white","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  scary as hell this movie does what the exorcist did in the 1970's.a great date movie because the girls in the preview i saw were hiding behind there hands.im a hardened cinemagoer who doesnt jump out of there seat but i did in this. "},{"Title":"irritating horror movie","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In the age where teen horror movies come out by the dozens, more and more movies come out that just wanna make you scream (no pun intended). It tells the story of 2 people who witness a strange man dumping a body-like object in a hole. They check it out and are continually chased by some weird monster. Although I admit the first half was good at building suspense, the second half turned into the usual teen slasher movie with no thrills, boring characters, and dumb logic. If your going to see any teen slasher this season, see Joy Ride. It actually makes sense sometimes. "},{"Title":"Heebie Jeebies","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By 2001 the resurgence of slasher movies had fortunately died down and audiences were in the mood for something new. Jeepers Creepers is a return to the old-fashioned monster movies in the style of classic Universal. Those were movies built on suspense and atmosphere rather than gore and multiple kills.Justin Long and Gina Philips play Darry and Trish, a pair of argumentative siblings who are traveling home through the Florida backwaters for spring break. Along the way they are terrorized by an unseen figure driving a ugly truck. Darry sees the figure dumping what appears to be dead bodies into a pipe by an abandoned church. In a moment of agonizing plot contrivance Darry turns around and heads back to find out what's really going on, unawares that he'll give the villain a taste of his fear, thus making him a marked man.Victor Salva layers the movie with homosexual and incestuous subtext, while keeping the monster in the dark for the most part, building fear and mystery about him. The Creeper is a great villain and Salva builds an intriguing mythology about him.The swift running time (the credits roll at the 85 minute mark) prevents things from getting deep or expansive but the sequel builds upon this world and is actually a better movie despite the hate. On its own Jeepers Creepers is an effective but superficial. Plenty of points for being original however. "},{"Title":"Maybe for your next slumber party... to trigger the slumber!","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Most profitable horror movie franchises revolve around a primary threat, either a killer psycho, monster or other variety of nastiness. So you would assume that most writers attempting to create a scary movie spend most of their initial effort in coming up with an original and effective bad guy.That seems to be the case here, without too much in the way of spoilers the killer is an amalgam of everything that it has devoured over the years, including man, animal and seemingly plantlife. Whatever aspects that victim had appear to be inherited by the Creeper, including it would seem the ability to fly, drive and regenerate health (maybe he killed a video game character).I have ignored this at the video shop for some time and only grabbed it after I saw it on a couple of all time best of horror lists, now that I've seen it I know that I don't have to pick it up next time.The 30 second plot Every 23 years for 23 days the creature appears to feed. 2 kids are going home for the holidays and basically they come across the creature and for the remainder of the film he hunts them down.The kids are Justin Long and Gina Philips as Patricia and Darry, brother and sister, up until when they are run off the road by some maniac in an old truck they act like typical siblings, verbally sparring and trying to one up each other by putting the other down.After the creature appears everything falls into lockstep with other typical horror fare, mobile phones get no service, gears stick so cars won't go, torches don't work, crazy ladies show up for little reason and cops yell stop instead of shooting what is obviously not human. One crazy lady in particular is almost solely responsible for informing the viewer of what has happened (and also what will happen).I could go through other basic plot points but in essence it's Bad thing chases teens.There is a surprisingly low head count in this film, in fact the first kill is half way in, and I didn't count while watching but it must be 5 or less on screen, and there really isn't a great deal of gore apart from one scene, where the violence is cartoonish anyway. I am baffled as to why this is in any Top anything lists, suspense is low, nothing original happens and the creature isn't especially menacing or scary. The creature even has his own theme song that is supposed to forebode his appearance!The film obviously wanted to be a horror version of Predator creature appears to feed and takes victims as trophies or in this case food. It is almost indestructible, can regenerate itself and can travel quickly and easily, I think the director wanted to set the Creeper up as a Jason/Freddie style anti-hero but I just don't see it.Look, if you're under 20 and think Freddie or Jason are what horror is all about you might like this, similar to Mimic (a better film than this, still not great though,) I just wonder why nobody thought to try Black Flag on a buggy creature to get him to run back under the fridge.One thing I might note is that at least through the movie the director shows he has some neat tricks which at least look cool, even if they add nothing to the plot. A scene where they show the interiors of two cars following each other without a cut is pretty nifty. Final Rating &#x96; 6.0 / 10. Better than anything Jessica Simpson has done, but so are the contents of most used nappies. Maybe for your next slumber party?If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Great start; so-so middle; disappointing ending.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers starts with an incredible first 15 minutes that easily misleads one into thinking they are witnessing a truly special horror movie in the Texas Chainsaw Massacre vein. In this tense and exciting opening, two teenagers travelling down a lonely back-road are almost run off the road by a menacing truck; they later see the truck parked by an old church, and witness its driver throwing what appear to be bodies down a rusty shaft.But from this point onwards, the film becomes a mess of clichés and bad plot decisions. Instead of driving to the nearest town to get help, the stupid teens decide to investigate the situation themselves. They discover an underground room decorated with the corpses of hundreds of missing people. Now they do what they should've done in the first place&#151;get the hell out of there! But it's too late, and the killer&#151;which turns out to be a supernatural bat-winged creature(!)&#151;is intent on hunting them down.Salva proves that he is adept at creating suspenseful moments but less capable when putting together a credible script. He introduces some mumbo-jumbo about a psychic who may or may not be able to help the kids, some drivel about the creature feeding for 23 days every 23 years, and ends the film poorly.Jeepers Creepers definitely had potential, and Salva is obviously not without some talent behind the camera, but the end result is distinctly average. "},{"Title":"lousy","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" several things were wrong with this film1. they monster was eating the cops head and the siblings were just looking at him and not running away. WHy are they dumb enough to just watch.2. why did they even look down there. The guy tried to kill them for a reason and they were about to give him another reason to. 3. THe lousy cops acted like the siblings were crazy. Didn't they realize that hundreds of people were missing. MOst cop stations would pay attention to that. 4. WHen Derry heard the song he turned up the song so loud his sister couldn't understand it. They were acting like retards. 5. WHen the psychic called to help them they acted like they didn't understand what she was talking about. It was obvious someone was after them. 6. WHen the guy drove past the gas station. They were screaming and running inside. Way to make it obvious to him. 7. when the creature was at that old hags house. when she ran in they should have ran away. They just stood and waited.the movie is poor and Victor Salva is a lousy director. "}{"Title":"this sucks!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was the worst horror movie I've ever seen. it wasn't scary. It was disgusting. It was stupid. It never explained where the demon came from, nor why he drove that stupid truck or played that stupid song. It wasn't a surprise that he ate her brother, heck it was a surprise that he didn't eat her and that black lady that he was sniffing because heck he ate everyone else he met! i cant believe that they made a second one! i made sure to tell everyone i knew to not go see it.at least it wasn't my idea to go see it, it was picked by stupid ex and even he hated it. i wanted to leave after 10 minutes but he wanted to stay , hoping it would get better. it didn't. there were a total of 4 people , counting us watching this movie and everyone was mad that they'd wasted their money. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a horror film about two college students who unleash the creeper a terrifying force from outer space. Starring (Gina Phillips) and ( Justin Long) which are two actors you haven't probably heard of, they did do an A grade performance in this film.Jeepers Creepers was unlike any horror or Sci-fi film I had seen before it was enjoyable not to be taken serious. It is good to see horror fans and film makers becoming more interested in other plots besides a killer in a mask chopping people! saying that they are enjoyable ha ha! A Dark and Dunjy film for a fair section and I didn't like the ending, The creeper was cool, over all not bad at all. "},{"Title":"Dynamic horror film with intriguing premise","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JEEPERS CREEPERS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSWhilst driving home from college through open country, teenage siblings (Justin Long and Gina Philips) are stalked by a demonic creature which requires fresh body parts for its own gruesome purposes...Adding its own particular twist to the teen-horror cycle, JEEPERS CREEPERS - the sleeper hit of 2001, co-produced by Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Studios - demonstrates how a fairly conventional narrative can be enhanced by the loving care exhibited here by writer-director Victor Salva. From the dark-hearted drama of NATURE OF THE BEAST (1994) and RITES OF PASSAGE (1998) to the spiritual uplift of POWDER (1995), Salva has always demonstrated a willingness to challenge the conventions of mainstream cinema by thwarting audience expectations at every turn, and Jeepers is no exception. An avowed fan of old-time monster movies, the director has marshalled his considerable creative resources to produce an equally old-fashioned creature feature, updated for modern sensibilities and characterized by jump-out-of-your-seat thrills, a well-developed sense of irony, and plenty of heart and soul. To top it all off, there's also a pretty impressive monster - a combination of clever makeup, CGI effects, and a truly menacing performance by Jonathan Breck, buried beneath masses of latex and foam rubber.Fabulous, evocative production design by Steven Legler (and equally moody cinematography by frequent Salva collaborator Don E. FauntLeRoy) transforms the central Florida locations into a Gothic, brooding 21st century dreamscape. With nods to an assortment of genre outings - especially DUEL (1971) - the film culminates in a final showdown which capitalizes on the strong emotional undertow established during the opening sequences. Thankfully, there's just enough humor to offset the ultra-convincing trauma suffered by the principal characters as they pit their wits against a merciless force of supernatural horror. Attractive newcomers Long and Philips give exceptional, sincere performances as the terrorized protagonists, while Patricia Belcher makes an impression as the creepy psychic who realizes the creature has a special fondness for one of the teens and will never let them go... ever. Also featuring Eileen Brennan (PRIVATE BENJAMIN) in a brief cameo as 'The Cat Lady'.However, Salva's normally impeccable judgment is compromised by an unwarranted, needlessly cruel postscript Having staged a predictably lavish, crowd-pleasing finale that scales the heights of operatic tragedy, the director chooses to close proceedings with a downbeat coda that's actually more depressing than horrific, and completely out of sync with the Big Fun Monster Movie preceding it. It's the only significant flaw in an otherwise perfectly realized miniature. "},{"Title":"Scared the Jeepers Creepers out of me!","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is an awesome movie. The plot and details about the movie are so vivid. One of the best horror movies out of all. The graphics are perfect. There is not one momment where anything looked fake. Gina Philips and Justin Long were the perfect choice for Trish and Darry. The 1960 Chevy Impala that was used was awesome. Also making the creature immortal was a great idea, seeing as how it came back after Trish and Darry ran it over many times. The liceance plate Beatinguwas a good idea. Gizelle Gay Hartman plays a very important part in the movie, explaining why the creature does what it does and explains the Jeepers Creepers song. All around, Jeepers Creepers gets a 10 on my vote. "},{"Title":"You sure this is a horror film...?","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Having watched this film, I'm quite astonished at how a film surrounded by media hype, good reviews and trailers could be so poor.I'm not one of these people who doesn't get scared at anything so I was expecting to be terrified whilst watching it. If you were scared when watching this film then your mummy should have put you to bed hours ago.The apparent 'demon' in the film looks remarkably like the Green Goblin in Spiderman and the scene where he flies off looks as though it was made in the mid eighties. The wings look unbelievably fake, slightly jerking from one frame to another as he takes of into the night.As with the vast majority of modern American so-called 'horrors', the moments that are supposed to make you jump can be easily predicted. Such as one moment when the typically helpless female (typical because its a film that is) is in the car, there is a wide shot of the window next to her, drawing all the attention to it. Then what do you know, a face appears at the window. Is it a terrifying beast sent from the deepest levels of hell? Is it a possessed man shredded apart by an evil poltergeist? Is it the devil himself? No...its her brother, wanting to get in the car after discovering what is down the hole (i wont spoil it for you.)And as for the ending... what the heck was that? It just...well...ends. There's no grande finale or anything spectacular... a truly poor, rushed ending. However the film has some good aspects to it. The demon looks pretty scary when hes dressed like a man with a long cloak and a hat, as he is about 7 foot. Also, the lorry he drives (yes a lorry-driving demon) is also really cool as its all rusty, with a ramming device on the front, like what you see on steam-trains. And of course the best bit of the film is when its finally ended and you can go and watch a film that was intended to be a comedy and didn't just turn out like that. Watch it if you want but don't expect to be frightened at all.  "},{"Title":"I hated, Hated, HATED this movie!!!","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     Good lord, what a horrible movie! I saw Jeepers Creepers when it first was playing in the theaters, and immediatly following the conclusion as I was walking out of the cinema, I began to think of all the things I could have used the $8.50 I had spent on addmission on other than on this film. Jeepers Creepers in my opinion can not even be qualified as being so bad it's good....this movie just stinks!To start, many of the scenes seem to have nothing to do with the plot of the movie at all. What was the purpose of the lady with all the cats? Second, the acting was just horrible. Darry's stupid lines as well as his cartoon like fear trembles was unbearable. The rest of the characters were unbelievably stupid. I would not want the depicted police force watching after my town. Then there were the special effects...plastic looking bodies, and the creature flying away under the control of a visible cable. Do yourself a favor, spend the cost of this rental on Preparation H...it sits better than this film. "},{"Title":"Boy oh Boy","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I thought about going out on a date to a movie, I was hyped. When she picked a scary movie, I got even more hyped.....And then the movie began.It had a great opportunity to be a good movie. The way it stared with the crazy truck following them and frightening them half to death...that was cool.And then....it continued. The way it ended with the Crow Man or whatever the hell it was, well that was just disappointing in itself. I hear the sequel is much better....I guess I'll wait til it comes on TV....for FREE.Thas just my thoughts. "},{"Title":"the worst movie i have ever seen (spoliers)","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i had wanted to see this movie for a really long time, so i finally decided to rent it the other day, dumb move!  the first half of the movie was very well done up untill the creeper ate the officers tongue.  after that the movie went steeply downhill.  I was expecting the creeper to be more creepy!  Personally you can like the movie or hate it, i just happen to hate it, thats your opinion.  But this was a waste of my money and time.  "},{"Title":"You'll even spill a little of your popcorn","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I admit, I didn't expect much coming into this film.  But I was pleasantly surprised.  Despite what some reviewers said, I think the dialogue was creative and realistic.  The performances weren't weak, like in a lot of horrors . . . their reactions were really on the mark.  The film has elements of The Hitcher and your traditional Michael Meyers.  But it also has a few new moments that were pretty creative and new.I think Salva could have done a little better by learning from Jaws or Alien. . . the less you show the creature the scarier.  I think some of the creature's off screen moments were the scariest.Worth the rent, even at full price! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film of All Time!!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now that I've got your attentions I would like to point out that I have seen hundreds and hundreds of films over the years and would also like to point out that this film has to be one of the worst I've seen. What's even worse is the fact I paid good money to see this film with a mate. To be honest I knew what I was letting myself in for as I only went to see it because my friend wanted to. For all those people who actually like this film a question for you WHY!!?!? The first main area I'm going to address is the homage to Duel which is so eloquently written by another IMDB user. I have to say that I haven't laughed so hard in a long time at how awfully bad this was directed. For anybody who had seen Duel will know that Spielberg's major debut is a suspenseful film which is more than can be said for this travesty of film-making. The acting like with any horror film is never oscar material but for this the characters were so wooden and lifeless you didn't care whether they were killed or not. Overall this is of miniscule interest and just goes to show that all Hollywood studios are after is money which is even more evident now that the originally titled Jeepers Creepers 2 is out soon.  "}{"Title":"There should be minus numbers out of 10 !!!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm gonna comment on this in two halves...First half of the film   10/10!!! It's really scary and really good. Edge of the seat, fully engrossing, very entertaining and a top horror film.Second half of the film   This is where the minus numbers should exsist!!! it's embarrassingly awful. i wish i'd have got rid of my i-dont-walk-out-of-something-i've-paid-for policy!!! Dnt waste your time with this. you'll be SOOOO embarrassed you spent £3 seeing it!!! "},{"Title":"Not that bad, its evil, and alittle different!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You gotta love the end. Its evil and sweet to my mind to see this movie end like this.Its silly, has its B-movie moments, I cant help to think about The Thing and The Mothman Prophecies, when watching this flick. It tries to build up some of the creature suspense, The Thing so admirably succeeds in doing. And it has some of the run and chase feel of the Mothman Prophecies.Although not too much depth or anything great in this movie, I like to see a creature face-to-face and up front for once. No hiding here (at least not too much) The drawback, and perhaps the reason horror flicks never show their creatures up front, is we get attached to this thing, to this silly looking creature. Hey he cant live without the things he do, and he is having some nice and cosy times in his cavern.Its not great, alittle boring at times, but worth attention, at least as long as it lasts. May the ending put a smile on your lips ) 7/10  "},{"Title":"A horrid horror","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is awful. After 15 minutes, I wanted it to end. The only good thing was Gina Phillips , who resembles a young, thin, buff Laura San Giacomo. Gina is extremely camera friendly, and has enough acting talent to deliver corny dialogue credibly. The plot is predictable. Almost every detail is telegraphed . It is also unrealistic, even for a creature feature. The story would fill a bad episode of Twilight Zone ( 30 minutes). It is padded with tedious irrelevant dialogue, and long dramatic pauses, which fail to add tension. It lacks humour, so isn't campy.Wait for Gina in a better movie. "},{"Title":"Good actors, awful movie.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Being a fan of the new wave teen horror genre, I had heard quite a bit about this movie and was interested to see how good it would be compared to other such films I'd seen.  Sad to say that this movie was not a stitch (no pun intended!) on some of the other movies in its genre.  It was so awful, it made I Still Know What You Did Last Summer a perfect 10 out of 10 movie in comparison.    The plot had gaping holes (and I mean *gaping*), the ghoulie menacing the main characters was some lame hybrid of every teen horror movie killer and there were so many cliched moments that the majority of terrifying moments just fell (and felt) flat.  The most annoying part of the entire movie was the last twenty minutes of the film - a showdown between the main characters.  You keep thinking that maybe the film will get better if you watch it for another five minutes, but it only gets worse and worse.   However, kudos must be given to the two main actors, Gina Phillips (Trish) and Justin Long (Darry).  Their ability to convey fear (especially Long) was truly convincing. They did their best with a very mediocre script, and brought an air of believability to what is otherwise a dog of a movie.    "},{"Title":"Hybrid (half-baked) Horror","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two siblings (Phillips and Long) are driving home to somewhere a long way away from somewhere else a long way away and, because they are in the middle of nowhere, they decide to pass the time by aggravating each other and developing unlikeable personalities.  All this changes though when they witness a dodgy looking geezer throwing corpses wrapped in bloody sheets down a pipe by an old abandoned church.  After almost being rammed off the road by the dodgy geezer's grotesquely fearsome Citroen van, the siblings decide to return to the pipe and discover whether or not the sheets really did contain any corpses and - more pertinently - whether any of the corpses are actually not dead(!).  Perhaps not the best idea siblings in a horror movie have ever had...  but almost certainly the only one!Well.  Copolla is involved.  And the reviews waxed superlative.  But is it a good film?  No.  It is however very nearly two very good films...  ???The first is a bog-standard, taut, well filmed chiller with a handful of 'out of your seat moments' and a welcome angle of the locals actually believing and supporting the scared kids which opens out the potential for the baddie's evil to grow.  And it does.  Unfortunately, the two siblings are actually so irritating that you cannot help but root for the monster. Surely not the intention.  Anyway, shortly after the best bit (and indeed - the end) of the 'horror' movie, when we see the monster in all it's glory, the film suddenly and totally becomes a sci-fi fantasy (and totally different) flick in which we are drowned beneath embarrasingly awful dialogue, almost all of it spouted by the flawed 'see-er' Jezelle (the atrocious Patricia Belcher) and in which the monster develops a personality and - towards the finale - emotions!!!...  Not that such a movie wouldn't have been worthwhile (on the contrary A decent film about an evil beast trying to relate to it's warped interpretation of beauty is always welcome); but such a movie we did not begin with and, in it's own context, such a movie makes no sense without the necessary involvement of intelligence and plot...That said.  It's watchable.  It delivers on several occasions and it isn't without potential.  But you can't help thinking that, two thirds of the way in, the writer/director ran out of ideas for one movie and ham-fistedly tried to revive another.  And by God it shows!... "},{"Title":"the only movie I have ever walked out of","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched the second half of this movie from the pub next door to the cinema, not because I was too scared to stay, but because I'd had enough. Trite, cliched and boring, the audience was laughing outright at the scary bits and groaning at the main character's terminal need to investigate. Dire.  This film borders on the indescribable, and not in a good way. Don't bother. Really.   "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad!!!!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was really bad! I wouldn't even go to see it again if I was paid and got in free with all the popcorn, candy, and drinks I could eat! Don't go see it! Don't listen to all these stupid kids who thought it was scary! The only scary parts were the extremely random loud noises, which mostly came from the ugly massive amounts of crows! I was so mad after I saw this movie! The editing was bad, and 95% of the actions of the main characters was so absurd! They were about to die and they would just stand there bug-eyed until the last second and then would run into their convenient gear-stuck chevy which would go into gear also at the last second! Don't ever go see this movie! I have to admit though, there was ONE funny part when the un-named jeepers creepers guy threw an old lady across her own porch. That was the only good part of the movie! DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"What kind of fiend is this?","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Writer-director Victor Silva presents creepy gore well worth peeking at. A young woman(Gina Philips)and her brother(Justin Long)are on their way home for school break and are forced off the highway by a mysterious driver. The two are then stalked by this monstrous tongue sucking, flesh eating demon. Along the way, the two seek help briefly from an old woman(Eileen Brennan)who is more interested in protecting her numerous cats. Mysteriously, a fortune teller(Patricia Belcher)offers aid to the frightened siblings. The flesh craving fiend is played by Jonathan Breck.If you want something scary, creepy and hair raising...this is it. In places a little slow and disjointed, but JEEPERS CREEPERS is first rate screen terror. As for Miss Philips, Baby, where did you get those peepers? "},{"Title":"Do you think he's dead? ... They never are.","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Writer-director Victor Salva's cheeky thriller, with both supernatural overtones and a twisted-comic bend, is either a derivative slasher about teens in danger or a knowing collection of horror movie clichés (depending on your point of view). Thin story concerns squabbling siblings on a break from college driving through a rural town and running afoul of a cannibalistic, demonic bogeyman who cannot be killed. Exceptionally well-produced for the genre, with a clear, handsome look and a handful of stylish, arresting sequences; however, the outrageousness of Salva's plot escalates to the point where his characters fail to end up meaning much to us...and the mean-spiritedness of the whole concept is depressing rather than darkly amusing. Followed by Jeepers Creepers II in 2003. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The first half hour is superb, but after that, it's all downhill","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Overall, this movie was just okay, but it could have potentially been an amazing movie instead of turning into a cheesy monster movie 30 minutes into it.The first 30 minutes of the movie are amazing. It's suspenseful, scary, and literally had me on the edge of my seat.But then the movie switches gear from a suspenseful, mysterious movie, to a bland average monster type of thing, which was disappointing.The first 30 minutes are amazing, but after that it's just sort of blah. It's just disappointing because this movie had so much potential, but it fell apart towards the middle and end, and it just sort of became an average horror flick. It's still worth a watch though. It's a nice, campy, atmospheric movie (the first 30 minutes though were amazing). "}{"Title":"Completely horrible","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst horror films I've ever seen.  The kids in this  movie make every other horror movie teen look like a genius.  I lost count as to how many times they just stood somewhere watching the Creeper eat someone, or watching the Creeper coming towards them.  And yet every time they insisted on standing around until the last minute, when one of them would finally snap out of it and yell repeatedly at their sibling to get the hell out of there. Not even worth watching.  Not a single character is believable or worth caring about.  I found myself wishing the kids would just get eaten to end the movie.  Their acting was terrible.  The actor playing Darius had only two emotions  Confused and bewildered.  And neither came off as anything other than stupid.  Don't look for this kid at the Oscars anytime soon. Okay, I can't write anything else.  It's a waste of my life to give this film one more minute of my time.  On a scale of 1-5 stars, I'd give this a 1, and that's a gift. "},{"Title":"If you are looking for a scary movie look elsewhere","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was probably one of the worst horror movies to come out in a while. The special effects were bad.  The acting so-so.  The script bad.  There really is nothing good to say about this movie.  But if you must see it wait for it to come out in the dollar theater or wait til it comes out on video. It definitely is not worth theater prices. "},{"Title":"Whats scaring you","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was the best scary movie that i have seen in a long long time. I am not the type to be easily scared while watching a movie. It takes a lot to make me jump and this movie made me jump and scream. Go see it, but dont go in thinking its going to be good. (Little mind game).  "},{"Title":"No creeps in this crap film","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I could not understand how this film got 5.4 out of 10. Overrated! I mean, the movie was so awful. No frights, no chills, even I, who gets scared watching many ghost movies, didn't get scared seeing this film.The plot is so stupid, no sense at all. The ghost looked funny and not terrifying. The actress looked as if she had gulped a full bottle of Castor oil. She looked so boring that I felt to sleep seeing her face. The actor was slightly better, but some of his expressions were wooden. When he started screaming, he looked stupid.And why was there a stupid, crazy psychic in the middle? The end was terribly stupid. I request the director of this film to stop directing films and sit at home and live a peaceful life over there. "},{"Title":"Myeh.","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I went to a party on Friday the 13th, and we thought it would be fun to watch some scary movies out on the patio in the dark (right next to the lake, I might add). So we put in Jeepers Creepers. This was the worst movie I've ever seen. Well, besides The Village (or Jeepers Creepers 2).My friends were actually getting scared during the climactic scenes, so for comedic relief, I, being my cocky self, ad-libbed some of my sarcastic humor. In example, I said, That looks SO real. and everyone started laughing. They were like, Oh, man, you ruined it. I was actually scared. Psh. Sure.This gets a 2 out of me for some humor, but it's totally self-inflicted.Words of advice DON'T WATCH JEEPERS CREEPERS (or the sequel). "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad...","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A nice beginning, a boring development, and an awful end. Jeepers Creepers has a look near to Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The House Of 1000 Corpses, and that kind of deep-America-terror-movies, with an strange evil creature which kills anything that moves (and, of course, the main characters are his next victims); but it gets to nowhere. I can't understand the success of this film (they made a sequel!!) 'cause it doesn't even scare you, and it has one of the worst endings ever in terror genre. If you don't know how to create a tense environment, how to amuse, or how to surprise, then don't try to make a horror film, just spend your money in some other stuff. Bad, bad , bad stuff...*My rate 2/10 "},{"Title":"Passable slasher movie for the new millenium","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The hype surrounding this film pursuaded me to check this film out, I haven't seen a good slasher movie in years and had heard good things about Jeepers Creepers.I was very impressed with the first thirty minutes. A brother and his sister are driving around and nearly get killed by a maniac with a stupid truck. They decide to investigate the church this maniac was spotted moments after. They discover a chute which leads down into the unknown, and Darius has the nice idea of sliding down minutes after almost being killed. Nice idea Darius! Learning that dead bodies in their hundreds are waiting at the bottom, the two teenagers leave horrified and distraught. Searching for help, the body count begins which results in some cool imagery, if little gore (to the gore-monger's disappointment). One of the most annoying things in Jeepers Creepers is the frequent looks of shock and horror on Darius and Trisha's faces. They are subject to some of the most over-used tactics and cliches, ones which have been used for almost every horror movie in the last twenty years -so you really don't need to see ten minutes of them freaking out. I don't even need to mention the psychic, it made me cringe as this character seems to have walked off the set of The Matrix. She is still spouting off her patronising emotional drivel (You are the one, Neo!).The creeper in question is a pretty boring killer. He has one of the most ridiculous maturing cycles in horror movie history. As the psychic tells us, he actually grows from eating people. And he devours those who fear and can smell people wetting their pants, apparently. I guess the writers forgot the existence of Freddy Kruger. We see the creeper eating tongues and other body parts to try and make people disgusted. It feels quite forced and really starts to give you a poor outlook on the rest of the film. The scene in the police station is a great example of how dumb the characters in slasher movies are, and boy it makes you wonder how anyone rated this movie. Even horror hero Clive Barker enjoyed this, go figure. Even the police seem to have an IQ of less than forty and seem to stand there whilst the killer eats on prisoners. The ending was unorthodox but leaves you thinking so what? The movie is average. One good point was that the main characters (Darius and Trish) were tolerable for the most part, which is a rarity in modern horror movies.2.5/5 "},{"Title":"no plot, no scares, no nothing!!!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  like a fool i heard the marketing plees to watch this ilm, oh how duped i felt; this film has no discernible plot, the characters simply grate and their actions make no sense whatsoever! for example, when theyre called by a psychic while ina cafe, the girl tells her f**k you! for no reason whatsoever other than a weak attempt to create a little atmosphere (which, if it was the intention, doesn't work!!)The existence of the creature is explained by stealing the monster idea from the stephen king book IT and, at the end of the film after many policemen have been slaughtered and the boy has been taken away by the monster, the girl walks into the daylight while in the background we see the police walking around as though nothing had happened and her parents collect her to take her home as if the brother never existed!! mind you, the character of the boy was so annoying i'm sure they were glad to be rid of him!i'd recommend this only as an example of how NOT to make a good film! "},{"Title":"HORRIFYING,HAUNTING,HELLISH","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is withouut a doubt a true horror film. Very Very Very Scary plot and atmosphere than your usual horror film. I saw this at the movies today. A MUST-SEE for true horror fans. An EXCRUCIATINGLY high number scares,thrills,and chills. I STRONGLY reccomend this film to true Horor Fans. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a wonderful movie,which deserves a place among all the sensible thriller genre movie .Basically the people who didn't like the movie didn't get it or were too tired. This movie can be watched many times i personally liked the acting of both the characters or maybe it was because i was a teenager when i watched it with my friends . I loved the beautiful Gina philips ,the siblings love towards each others was presented without being corny. Its not a movie like slash and dice,cannibals like chop . This is a good movie .It has a slow pace but thats the beauty of it not rushing things before it can be understood.Appreciate for making it . "}{"Title":"Scary breathtaking horror thriller","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I haven't seen many horror thrillers but when watching Jeepers Creepers I could tell that this was fantastic and fitted the genre perfectly.Its fast, tense and definitely exciting. The plot is consistent and will keep audiences excited as Justin Long stars alongside Gina Phillips who play the brother and sister who are being chased on a road-trip by a mad creature who wants to catch them.Long and Phillips are brilliant in their roles as stereotypical teenagers who are scared and freighted and are brilliantly portrayed by the two young actors.The film is often set at night which makes it even scarier and I was very scared when the tension starts to build for the characters as the film moves along at a ferocious pace.If you like horror films then this is definitely a must watch. It has made me more interested in the genre and I can't wait to watch the sequel, Jeepers Creepers II.8/10 "},{"Title":"Does not warrant a sequel","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS!  With the sequel just weeks away I thought I'd better make an effort and try and see the first. Thankfully one of the movie channels were showing it so I eagerly sat down to watch it. Within minutes I was gripped by the mysterious and quite scary atmosphere created when we first encounter the rusty old pick-up. I even jumped when rats left the pipe by the church. By the time they reached the cafe I was engrossed in the film. However from then on the film went down hill. The bat-thing killed the police by flying onto their car and pulling them out through the windows and even the roof. At this point I asked myself how come it doesn't do that to the teenagers? The bat-thing could have also killed them at the old woman's house and the police station. That really ruined the film. It just didn't fit in with the other actions of the monster. Not only that but the police station scene was poorly done. Little tension was built up and the ending was poor. Furthermore too many questions were left unanswered e.g. how did the women learn about the bat-thing, where did see come from? Or how long has this been going on and why did the bodies have stitches through their chests, after all the monster only wanted tongues and eyes? A good first 30 minutes and a disappointing last hour. I will avoid watching this again and certainly not watch the sequel.  "},{"Title":"Evil is right behind you","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i was very unsure about this film. I was expecting it to be another run-of the-mill horror. How surprised i was. From the opening scene with The Truck i was gripped. Usually, horrors do not have any effect on me, but i loved it. I was genuinely sitting there clenching my fists screaming at my T.V. The Creeper is a monster that will become just as popular as Ghostface(Scream) Freddie Krueger and Pinhead. it doesnt rely on over-the-top gore for its scares. It builds up its tension slowly, before releasing it with sudden loud music and an appearence by The creeper. I feel the ending was not as good as it could of been, but it did leave me wanting to watch more. I look forward to the, hopefully, upcoming Jeepers Creepers 2, which hopefully should be just as entertaining.It doesnt try to be anything else. Its an edge-of-your-seat, pulse-pounding horror thriller that is perfect for a saturday night.Close the curtains, grab your popcorn and be ready to be scared.....The Creeper is coming to get you......... "},{"Title":"Jesus, can't anyone make a decent horror film anymore?","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers has a lot going for it. It has a decent premise (nothing extraordinary, but it's workable), several excellent scenes, and a great baddy - one that, if the film itself had been better, would have haunted the popular imagination as much as Freddy Krueger. Instead, the dialogue is terrible, the characters often make frustratingly awful and difficult to swallow decisions, and several annoying horror movie cliches that, for Christ's sake, should never be included in a movie again, yet somehow always end up there. How rare is it that a director can direct his own script? Really, Jeepers Creepers required two, maybe only one rewrite or script doctoring and it could have been a B movie masterpiece. The changes wouldn't have been difficult. I actually suggest that people see this film. Wait for it to move off the new release shelves and then snatch it up. It's only 90 minutes long. Expect your knee to jerk, but I implore you to find the seeds of good ideas in it. And, let me add, they are apparently making a sequel (the film really didn't make that much money, but, as I remember, it topped the B.O. for a week or two). I will definitely rent it when it comes out on video, just to see if Victor Salva has improved himself at all. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Over the Top but a one of a kind horror film.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When a brother (Justin Long) and his sister (Gina Philips) decide to take on a road trip together on their long way home. When a trucker tried to run them over in that very hot day. Later on that day... the brother and sister see the same trucker dumping, what it seems to be like dead bodies putting them in a hole at the abandoned church. When one of them, when inside the hole and has discover, there's full of dead bodies on the ground and on the walls of this basement. After they discover the trucker is actually not quite human that looks like a monster in a human form. The monster could smell differently than humans and he could also fly. Now the two are up against the monster and it is going to be a one long day.Written and Directed by Victor Salva (Clownhouse, Powder) shows a certain for originally in a monster movie. Which it's unique. The film's visual effects are just OK. But the movie has surprises and a good premise. One of the few box office surprises of 2001.The now out of print Special Edition DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an excellent-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an good commentary track by the director. The flip side of the DVD, it has over 16 minutes of Deleted/Extended Scenes, Featurette, Photo Gallery and Trailer. This film is also alivable in a Dual Layer edition with the Widescreen/Pan & Scan transfer with the only extra is the commentary by the director. This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat. One of the executive producers is Francis Ford Coppola (Apocalyspe Now, The Conversation, The Godfather). Followed by a sequel. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Laughable!","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The state of horror movies must be really bad these days if this is supposed to be considered a horror movie or even a successful horror movie. The monster (who drives a truck!) looks like something from the MIGHTY MORPHING POWER RANGERS. I laughed so much that halfway into the movie, I mostly fast forwarded it because it was soooooo freaking lame! The characters behave in such stupid ways that it's unbelievable! On which planet do these people live on? Except for Gina Philips, the acting from everyone else was bad. There's almost nothing to recommend about this turkey. As bad as DARKNESS FALLS!  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Monster","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was prepared to believe that this movie was going to be another one of those campy, poorly-acted teen scare flicks, but curiosity got the better of me and I took a chance. The main characters were convincing as brother and sister, with their natural exchange of sibling sarcasm and harassment, and their reactions to the story's events as they happened were appropriate and believable. The movie's opening action was pure horror genius and sets the stage for things to come. I particularly love a fright film that can create the mood by taking common, otherwise normal objects and settings, and turning them into symbols of sheer terror -- a deserted country highway, an abandoned, boarded-up building, and an old, beat up automobile -- this movie does not disappoint! Add a rather large and strangely dressed character whose face isn't easily seen and you've got gold! Don't let the teenage main characters fool you -- I was 23 when I saw this movie and it kept me out of my mother's basement for 2 weeks! My only regret was that I didn't get to act in it! "},{"Title":"Jeepers","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers starts off with high suspense and terrific direction, but just can't keep the same momentum throughout the rest of the film. Whilst the second half of this film isn't bad, it just isn't as heart racing as the first part. But nonetheless, Jeepers Creepers will enthrall you, scare you and sometimes make you laugh (whether or not that's the intention).At times Jeepers Creepers feels like the masterpiece of the century, but unfortunately at other times it feels like a standard horror. It is definitely different, but I can only feel at it doesn't work all the time; except for the end, that was a shock. "},{"Title":"Decent despite its problems","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We are introduced to the siblings Trish and Darry, who constantly gets into arguments with each other. They are played by Gina Phillips and Justin Long. Now, both of them are really bad. Clumsy line delivery and often bordering on overacting. I'm not a big fan of Justin Long in general. But the dialogue between them is very good and makes me laugh! Some examplesWhat the hell was that guy's problem? My first guess? INBREEDING!You know the part in scary movies when somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it? This is it.Hey, bum-f'uck police, I'm being chased by a guy who likes to pull tongues out of severed heads with his teeth. Is there a special extension for that?So yeah, in a way this is sort of a horror comedy, even though it isn't advertised that way. Even when things get the most ridiculous, you are entertaining by both the brilliant and the stupid one-liners. It's hard to not be critical of this film though. For example, the creature itself, once fully revealed... isn't that scary. It looks pretty dumb, to be frank. Especially when it flashes its damn wings! I just laughed at that part. I really tried to be creeped out, but I laughed my ass off. Jezelle is also annoying. I mean, the actor playing her is just too damn over-the-top, almost bordering on camp. So yeah, that's a weak link. The song Jeepers Creepers playing in a few scenes is hilariously cheesy, but it was at least used effectively in one scene when two cops are shocked out of their seats when the creature appears. The worst part of the movie is the last twenty or so minutes. From starting out as genuinely creepy and then just is entertaining... it becomes stupid. The last scene with Darry's head chopped off had me dying with laughter, even though it was supposed to be scary and not funny. Thankfully, the characters are never too unlikable. Yes they are sorta irritating, but they are still good enough people that you want them to survive.Jeepers Creepers is an all right watch. It could have been awesome if it just had better actors and a more professional director... but it also could have been terrible. With witty dialogue and a few actual unsettling moments, this is successful as a popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable slasher effort","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Inadvertently witnessing a savage killer's actions, a brother and sister are forced into a terrifying battle with the being and anyone else who comes into contact with as they try to escape the madman.This is probably one of the better horror films made from the last ten years. One of the better elements for it is that it has one of the better plot lines and played out a favorite theme in get a story that supports ninety minutes worth of action for a film that really shouldn't be that long and play it out with continuous attacks. As long as something is simple and can get that much screen-time, then it's done its purpose as just because the story might not be plausible doesn't really affect the movie that much as long as the film moves along fast enough to get that time in. that really allows this one to get in plenty of high-quality action scenes including the many chases down the highway. That was a real highpoint in the film, where the truck driver is trying to get them of the road and actually ramming into them on several occasions, the tactics of them trying to get away and the driver continually coming after them makes for a great action moment while also adding some effective suspense scenes as the camera is right up in there, and the close angles used to show them together with the truck allows for some nifty scenes of terror. A third chase scene also includes two police officers escorting the kids back to the scene of the crime as one of them hears a tapping on the roof, gets out to look, and is dragged out of the car kicking and screaming. Suddenly, the second one is pulled out, and now without a driver, the police car steers around wildly out of control and forces them to stop their car as getting out they see a figure in the driver's seat who opens the door and a decapitated head falls out, sending them screaming and they drive off. Another impressive element here is The Creeper, who is one of the better monsters from recent times. It has one of the best-looking designs, with a Gillman influence shining through very clearly in that the reptilian-like appearance in its face, while not being distinctly human is a great quality in a horror movie creature. The Creeper is also one of the smartest villains, making sure to terrify without killing so as to heighten the senses that he wanted to exploit. That carries on nicely with the storyline for this one, being far more original and inventive towards itself by making the usual twists and turns far more original than expected and come off as a really unexpected twist that adds a lot to like here. The fact that this does feel like an action movie rather than a horror effort might make for some rather troubling viewing at times since it seems to pack in scene-after-scene of relentless action to add to a scary conclusion, so something like the police-station assault or the chases could come off as overkill in such a movie, but overall this one is still a highly enjoyable effort.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Brief Nudity. "}{"Title":"A serviceable creature feature","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While not the best horror film I've seen, JEEPERS CREEPERS is able to maintain a decent level of suspense and tension, and has one of the more creative movie monsters out there. The story is about a brother and sister on the way back home for spring break. On the way they encounter a creature that eats human flesh. The first half of the movie is quite good, establishing a believable brother-sister relationship and setting the tone of what is to come. However, the second half is a bit more routine and could have done better without trying to explain what the creature was. Still, the ending was pretty good and I was never bored throughout the entire running time. The creature effects were also really well done. Overall, I suppose I wasn't missing much by not having watched this until now, but there are worse ways to pass 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"See The Creeper With Your Own Peepers.","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is not a bad monster slasher movie. It is quite entertaining and does have a scare factor there to make it fun. The movie does actually have a good story. It is mainly the relationship between the brother and sister (Darry and Trish) that keeps the movie and story good and not The Creeper himself (who only adds the scare factor to the film).To me, Jeepers Creepers is one of the better horror films in the sub-genre slasher. There are many slasher films on the market but only a few that have a good story to go along with all the slash-them-up action - Jeepers Creepers is one of them.And kudos to the idea of bringing the old song Jeepers Creepers back on the airwaves and creating a horror movie that befits the song. The song is a love song but has dark creepy overtones - so yeah I like idea.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good...Don't listen to the bad reviews","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One thing I notice and bluntly will say is those people with the acting was bad in a horror movie are very dumb to even say that at all. I would love to hear someone name an actual horror movie that has Oscar award acting. No I would actually pay them to hear them actually say one movie of the horror genre.Just hearing people actually say the acting is bad, is annoying as heck. All horror movies are bad acting, and if they actually had one that had good acting, would it be considered a horror movie or drama? Some people are nuts, just by catching what they think. Or do they think before saying or talking? Then there are people that like the boring and drawn long nothing happening until the end horror movie, and say they are the best. That is annoying too. The build up should be there. Hello, that is called fall asleep boring horror movies. If you just see people talking and scenes going no where to explain anything is not a good horror movie.Most of these people that I am talking about above are people I would never ever would want to be in the same room as the movie is playing. Bickering about a movie, because they have no brains to even like something that is actually better than themselves, do not need to be even in the same atmosphere as me.I talking about stupid people all the time, but hearing all this crap about acting in a horror movie tops the cake of stupidity. All I know is I enjoy movies for the entertainment and just to take something away from reality. These people take it to literal, and ruin a good time.This movie was awesome, and who cares what those bad reviewers say. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers one of the Best","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't know why we have so many haters for this movie. It wasn't cheesy; it didn't have mindless killings; it didn't have mindless sex. It was a story with some thought put into it. It was original from what I know. Not a whatever remake. And I really don't get the people who will give this a one star, talking about the actors or the script. Really, I didn't know we had sooo many expert script writers and actors on IMDb? The actors acted and the script was fine. You even had some person talking about that this is not how brothers and sisters act in real life. In what world this person is living in? I don't know. Some brothers and sisters are sometimes friends in real life just in case some people didn't know that. They had good and dark humor. It was at the same time serious. And yes it was really scary and the end was epic. And the brother and sister type horror movie was a change. Not a group of boyfriends and girlfriends who start doing naughty things and then bam he comes the boogie man. Like I said this movie is original. That is why I give this a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not great, not terrible","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After the success of 'Scream,' the Horror genre seemed revitalized. This was great for fans, but the output wasn't always a slam dunk. Many of the films coming out were pretty generic and easily forgotten. Someone needed to come in and shake things up. In 1999, people around the world were terrified by 'The Blair Witch Project.' It was a breath of fresh air and a sign of hope for the genre. It was time someone made a great monster movie. Sadly, 'Jeepers Creepers' is not that film, but it's not one to kick to the curb either.Pros Above average acting. Decent score. Suspenseful first half. Great special effects. Gorgeous cinematography. Nice production design. Startling creature. Never dull.Cons Too much exposition. Becomes standard monster movie in second half. Uneven pacing. Some missed opportunities.Final thoughts This film had a lot of the right ingredients. It had the potential to be a great modern Horror film. The acting and direction are both up to snuff, but the script is less than perfect. Still, it's worth a watch for lovers of monster movies and if you enjoyed Salva's first genre flick 'Clownhouse.'My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"A Solid Horror Film","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A brother (Justin Long) and sister (Gina Phillips) driving home for spring break encounter a flesh-eating creature (Jonathan Breck) in the isolated countryside that is on the last day of its ritualistic eating spree.This is possibly the biggest horror film of the last 15 years that I had not yet seen, so it feels good to have it off my list. And, as it turns out, I actually rather liked it. Not that it is the greatest film, but surely worthy of its success.The Creeper is a good addition to the list of horror villains, and his persona is only improved by the level of mystery surrounding him. Is he a demon? A cursed man? Or something altogether unheard of? On the DVD's deleted scenes, he even speaks a little bit. I am glad this was cut -- although he may have a human shape, I do not like to think of him as being human. It ruins the mystery.While not a perfect film, it is a good addition to the horror genre, and Victor Salva (much maligned with good reason) may rightly be called a Master of Horror if someone wanted to go there... "},{"Title":"Weird....","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ็HA! Well, that was strange. I've heard some talks about the film but it wasn't what I had expected. The film has a weird mix between stupidity and cleverness. You get a clue that the filmmaker knows better from some scenes but yet fails to deliver in some. It has good moments but yet it's also very cliché'. It looks and feels like an old horror film. The slow set up is interesting too. There are a few weird and strange moments but it seems that the film stops itself and doesn't flow with the momentum. I found that usual but interesting. And that thing is just weird. I'm glad the filmmaker is not afraid to make a film about it. "},{"Title":"Better Than...Well, 'Prometheus'","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let's be brief about this thing. Hardly good. But it's watchable, sort of, despite gaping plot issues. Which brings me, once again, to the so annoying fact that a zillion movies like this could be pretty fine if the scripts just had people reacting as people would. Horror requires more than monsters; it needs a foundation of reasonable action. That said, the best thing about JC is the marvelous Eileen Brennan as the Cat Lady. But those plot factors eclipse this shining scene, as in the Creeper drives a truck? Why? And, even on absurdly abandoned highways, no one notices a monster at the wheel, or getting gas? Also, why is it trying to ram the kids with its truck in the first place, since it lets them get away? Worse than this is Darry's insistence they return to the pipe, to check out what had to be dumped bodies. The script tries to play a moral card, but it's insane. He says, hey, someone could be alive, and there's no phones for miles to call for help, which is all the MORE reason not to return to so clearly dangerous a place. NO ONE would have gone back. Even the dumbest kid would've driven like crazy to get to a gas station and phone. Which reminds me did they even have cells? I forget. But we all know there'd be the obligatory, 'damn, no signal!' moment anyway. PS The abandoned church/Creeper crib. I'd think that, if every 23 years tons of people vanished right around there, somebody would've checked out that odd place right off the road. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Crappers","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First of all, I would like to say that I like Justin Long as an actor.... but after seeing that movie, he has lost much of my respect. I am 12 years old and watched with my 13 year old brother. Neither of found it remotely scary. We watched it with our cousins and we all hated it. The bodies in that were sooooo cheesy. A lot of it was random and didn't make sense. For example, at the end, when Justin Long's eyes have been eaten out, you can see that his body has been hollowed out.If that were the case, he wouldn't have been screaming ten seconds ago, and his body would not stand up. Also, what is the significance of the song Jeepers Creepers? Another question The Creeper could see through the entire movie, so why did he eat Justin Long's eyes? I have been told that you get answers in the 2nd one, but the first was so awful that I likely will not watch them. If I had a bullet in a gun for every bit of dislike I had for this movie, I could win a war. DO NOT WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Hungry Eyes","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Considering that the main television channel in Brazil used to show this movie frequently, and considering I was so scared to watch this back there, I decided to watch it to see what I was missing-- or not. The film begins with two main characters talking, arguing and making childish competitions, which irritated the beep out of me. After that, everything goes downhill. The monster's mask is ridiculous; the scares are predictable (especially the car window's); characters, situations and city are bizarre. Sometimes it feels we're watching an 80's comedy horror, but we can see that director wants to make it serious. I really don't know why I got so scared of this flick when I was young, neither why Brazilian's main television channel exhibited this movie every week. I believe it's one of the worst horror movies I've ever seen-- and that's quite meaningful. Get out! "}{"Title":"Justin Long and Gina Philips make this movie bearable! Plot, like this comment however, seems a little trite!","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first time I noticed Justin Long was in 'Die Hard 4' (Live Free or Die Hard); as I never watched Ed, and barely remember him from 'Galaxy Quest'. Since then, I've seen him in several films. Some good and some bad! I had no idea he was in 'Jeepers Creepers' so I was pleasantly surprised to see him in an early role as the lead. The film I had avoided for various reasons- particularly because it looked like a cheesy horror movie.Well, it is pretty cheesy. A brother and sister are chased by this Creeper creature for their body parts which are unknown to them which one he is exactly after. Then the plot is slightly propelled by a psychic who feebly attempts to steer them out of harm's way. Plus the duo must run every time they hear the song Jeepers Creepers. Yep, it's fairly cheesy. The Creeper itself looked menacingly enough, but its' motivations seemed a little trite to me.Justin Long is a star for a reason, and it's the acting that he brings that makes this film endurable. Gina Philips (Ally McBeal) and Justin work well together and have some decent banter at the beginning! The overall dialogue was pretty good, but the plot was very flimsy! For instance, Long convincing Gina to return to the potential body-dumping ground was just unrealistic, and simply a plot-device! As well as the use of a psychic from out-of-nowhere, and the legend behind the Creeper's cycle. It just didn't work for me.Some of the cinematography is good! And Victor Salva directs this film reasonably well, displaying the landscape and isolation of the American countryside! I waited for rental 10 years after the film was released; just out of curiosity, and besides seeing Justin Long in an earlier movie, it really wasn't worth the wait! **½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"The scariest creature movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember when I saw the trailer of this movie (I think I was watching Coyote Ugly in my grandma house) and the headline every 23rd spring, for 23 days, it gets to eat really made me want to watch the movie. So time passed and when I was about 12-13 years old, I got to see it finally. I don't know if it was because I was just a kid but I couldn't sleep alone that night, and for many many nights. It was one of the scariest movies I had seen, I really thought that Jeepers Creepers was gonna come through my window and eat me. His teeth and eyes are so scary. The first movie is the best, the second is okay. I'm looking forward to watching the 3rd. I watched it alone and in the dark, I still remember his ugly face I'm still scared. Good movie. "},{"Title":"The first thirty minutes are extremely creepy and atmospheric but then...","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This horror b movie is one of the best films of its kind in my opinion and this especially because of the first thirty minutes or so of the movie. The movie begins with a very dark and disturbing atmosphere when two innocent teenagers see a strange person in an old and ugly truck that seems to throw dead bodies in garbage bags in a row underneath a creepy old church next to a lost highway where only some ravens live. In the first half an hour you really get into this movie because you don't know what is coming next, what the two students will discover next or what they might do in a strange combination of naive curiosity and foolish ignorance. Those scenes send shivers down my spine and were a really intense and captivating beginning for a horror movie. The acting is more than appropriate and the scenery is filled with clichés but works perfectly.But then comes a little down and this great atmosphere is broken when the two students come back into civilization and as the true identity of the creeper is soon uncovered. It is true that the creeper is a really ugly, strange and frightening creature but I found it even more creepy and uneasy as I didn't know what or who this creature was in the beginning of the movie and I think that the identity of the monster should not have been revealed that fast but only in the very end. The movie becomes then less frightening and concentrates less on the atmosphere but on some gore and action scenes. The acting is also less intense than in the very realistic and shocking beginning.The gore and action parts are still well done for example when the creeper meets the strange old cat lady or when he is entering a local police department but the movie is only entertaining and not quite frightening anymore a part of the very last scene that finishes the movie in such an uneasy way as it began. That's why this movie only gets a really solid rating but not the two highest notes. The second part of the series is really less interesting because you know from the beginning on what the creeper is and what he does and the acting is also less convincing. But I'm still looking forward to the third part because I highly appreciated the first movie.That's why I can really recommend this first movie to any fan of atmospheric psycho thrillers for the first thirty minutes and to any fan of the typical horror, gore and splatter movies because of what is following afterwards. From that point of view the movie rejoins two different styles and fans and the rupture after the amazing beginning has at least one positive point. "},{"Title":"Had a spooky start","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 2 annoying siblings is running from some monster that looks like the creature from the black lagoon, except it has wings and wears western style clothing with a hat and a trench coat. And by the smell of it's victims fear it chooses who it wants. It rises every twenty-third spring for twenty-three days to feast on human body parts in order for it to regenerate and form part of its own body by consuming it's victims. The monster that is stalking the 2 annoying siblings started out actually kinda spooky, but after it reveals it's full appearance it got less spooky and sort of goofy at times. The mystery behind the monster made it suspenseful but after it reveals itself, the suspense just isn't there anymore. And while the movie shows the full appearance of the monster some stuff just isn't revealed, which isn't a positive thing. Since it leaves questions unanswered. It's obvious the director got the title of the movie from the popular 1938 jazz song titled Jeepers Creepers, but when the song starts playing in the movie, it means danger but this isn't clearly explained. It also doesn't explain what is special about the psychic lady that allows her to see into what is to come for the victims and other stuff isn't explained. There is a lot of potholes as well, especially when it came to the monster, a lot of it just didn't make any sense. This film has a strong start though, the teens witnessing the bodies getting dumped in the sewers of a abandoned church added mystery but was also eerie at the same time. The third act was pretty bad though and what starts off as the male sibling being the annoying one switches and the female sibling starts to get really annoying, despite the fact that she looks like a cheap hooker. And although this isn't really a teen horror, the 2 lead characters is really annoying. And you don't feel sorry for them since it feels like they just brought the whole mess onto themselves with there stupidity, especially Darry(Justin Long). If you seen annoying siblings that act like 10 yr old's, there you have it. The director had few lead characters in this film for a better character developments, but that is a big flaw since the audience is stuck with 2 annoying characters. That is why I was satisfied with the ending to Jeepers Creepers.4.6/10 "},{"Title":"Curiosity killed more than just a cat&#x85;","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Writer/director Victor Salva's modern horror 'Jeepers Creepers' is a very modest throwback to the token 80's monster gruel. Rather being gritty, it's a slick and stylish production propelled by it bombastic suspense over the very alienating road trip through the isolated, barren Florida back-roads. Along for the ride are two bickering siblings (splendidly performed with sincerity and naturally cracking chemistry by Justin Long and Gina Philips) on their way home, but on their journey they pass by a building which has an ominous figure that looks like is dumping bodies in to a large pipe in the ground. After the figure tears off in their old truck and runs them off the road, they decide to go back to investigate. This would become a very bad decision, for what they eventually uncover.From the get-go, once it grabs hold, never does it let go making it such a thrilling ride instilling a stench of fear and dread with some sine-tingling visuals. It's the usual ingredients to the formula, but there's a tasty mixture spinning its own unique touch to this somewhat cautionary tale. As for 'creeper' himself, it's a creepily strange monster creation&#x85; that gladly doesn't talk, but still leaves an imprint of personality from its looming ambiance thanks to Jonathan Breck's performance. Still it doesn't feel as menacing when fully revealed, compared to the early stages when its wearing a coat and wide brim hat. The gruesome make-up effects are well done and so are the special effects. Salva's material offers up a surprise or two, inserting some stimulating exchanges between the two main characters and amusing self-knowing quips of humour. However while I liked it as a whole, I found the opening half to much stronger and inspired with its creative juices with it getting rather silly in the latter half. The ambiguous nature of it all, is handled with care, where you begin less to question why and become involved with the escalating, unspeakable terror. There's a real mean-spirited vibe to the deaths inflicting pain. Salva's direction is brimming with constant energy, control and verve to gives an enduring kick. Bennett Salvay's score is an unsettling hum-dinger and Don E. Fauntleroy's transcendent photography work is smoothly adapted to the surroundings/actions. Also there are acceptable turns by Patricia Belcher and Brandon Smith.A brightly good, fun genre romp (I just don't get hate that seems to surround it.) with a sequel that's just as enticing. "},{"Title":"Could Easily Have Been Much Better","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm giving this 7 stars because the bits that are good, are very good.The movie begins with a couple of teenage siblings. Brother and sister, they are so much alike they might be twins. They're off the beaten track, like all the young schmucks in teen-horror trips, and heading for a grisly experience.The argumentative angst that they engage in whilst driving is not very interesting but - to me - highly believable. They grumble and bitch alternately, scoring cheap points off each other as adolescents do.With more than a hint of 'Duel' about it, a grimy, beat-up old truck sneaks up behind them, blasting its horn. It's silly, but spooky fun. They let it pass, and much later, see it parked at an abandoned church as its creepily-dressed driver drops something down a big pipe. They argue about going back to see what it is. And - yes - it's a body.Interestingly, our hero himself falls down this pipe (it's at an angle), he lands at the bottom, as you would expect. The body, on the other hand, has mysteriously rolled several metres to one side - in the dark. He, and we, find that this crypt has been lined floor to ceiling with Dante-esquire corpse sculptures that have more than a passing resemblance to 'Aliens'. The ghoul has been very busy.Up to that point, the movie has the makings of quite a plausible scare-fest. Unfortunately, the plot becomes increasingly daft. This ain't an ordinary murdering-psycho-ghoul-nutcase. It's some kind of demon. It's got huge bat-like wings and it can fly. So what's it doing driving a van then? Don't ask. Who taught it to drive? don't ask. Whizzing about at high speed, how come it's never been stopped? Don't ask? I have no problem with a movie that asks me to suspend belief. But I have a big issue with one that asks me to suspend common sense. In order for a real horror movie to work its spell, there has to be a believable integration between the weirdness and the plausible. This one fails. And when it does; it fails big-time.But like I say; the bits it does well, it does very well. The bickering is entirely believable. The initial scares and shocks make you jump. There are some excellent set-pieces and special effects. But the plot ultimately becomes as lost and confused as the kids.Worth a watch, but not collectible. My DVD cost £3 from the cheap shelf. It hasn't gone to the charity shop yet. "},{"Title":"Unique, dark and surprising. Very impressive! (minor suggestive spoilers)","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this film 4 hours ago (I know I'm quite late!) and yet still it disturbs me. This was a very impressive horror flick. It had everything in it; plenty of horror, gore, darkness and uniqueness. I was wasn't very satisfied at the beginning because it had such a slow start but as the film progressed in to 10 minutes or so it definitely got better and started looping in to the terrifying action. Unlike any other horror films I watched this has got to the most unique. I mean this film had sort of more depth to it than the 2nd movie but I'm not saying its better its just a good start to JEEPERS CREEPERS. And the thing feeding on humans. Very scary. And the scene in the abandoned church where all the dead bodies were was just gruesome. The music...the music! Whenever you here the 60's Jeepers Creepers song, it's coming after you! How scary is that?! Like in the radio it played that song and that monster was right behind them! That was just classic. Very funny yet brutally scary! The ending was surprising also. I was even more surprised to hear the Boogeyman song in the credits. I think the producers should have stuck to the Jeepers Creepers song because come on it's not Boogeyman! Is it? See thats the things, what is that villains name? Because I keep on calling him thing or monster and the credits presume hes called Boogeyman (even though we already have a Boogeyman!) I have no idea... But overall I love this horror flick. Unique like I said and scary and surprising. Looking at some of the comments I don't understand why people hate it. Well for me it was actually very well done!********/********** (8/10 stars) ~Kalendra "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers - where'd you get those peepers","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Spoiler Lol. Where'd you get those eyes? You know what? I condone Jeepers creepers. If a couple of kids tried breaking and entering into my house - i'd do the same. Good job kids. Good on you Jeepers. That's what happens. Same thing would have happened to Goldilocks and the three bears. Break into my house? Slash. Bear claws! Jeepers is an animal, who like the human race, is a survivalist. He needs human body parts to continue - so why don't we oblige him more? Hey - we've been doing that kinda stuff to animals for centuries. Shearing sheep, domesticating dogs, milking cows, eating anything edible. So, what goes around, comes around. Good on you Jeepers. Good on you. If you need a kidney translant Jeepers - I got one for you. "},{"Title":"The Creeper creeps into the horror hall of fame.","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Most reviews of this movie run something like this decent movie, great start, shame it descends into silliness . . . blah, blah . . . wings . . . . . blah, blah . . . . psychic . . . . . and so on and so forth. Now, I am not saying that to denigrate those reviews. I am just getting to the gist of the main complaints I have seen about this film before I express my own view that basically discards those complaints, even though I can see why some people feel that way.The story is very simple. A brother and sister (Justin Long and Gina Philips) are driving home when they are terrorised by someone in an old, beaten up truck. After a number of horrifying discoveries, the pair become more desperate to find someone who will help them but time is against them as the driver shows his true colours and just keeps chasing them down (with or without his vehicle), absolutely unstoppable and never distracted from his main aim.The thing to bear in mind about Jeepers Creepers is that, first and foremost, it is a re-tooled, modern version of the good old creature feature. A tradition that stretches back to the likes of Tarantula, Them!, She Creature through to The Relic and many, many more titles that have their share of good and bad. The Creeper himself is a worthy and fun addition to the pantheon of horror icons. Yes, the second half descends into some silliness when the psychic gubbins previously alluded to becomes more of a focus in the storyline but many of these movies have had the odd loon/psychic/harbinger of doom so it's not really that out of place within this particular sub-genre.Thankfully, we have decent acting from all those involved, some great effects, tension ratcheted up constantly scene by scene and even a fun thrill-ride feel as we are taken through a succession of top scares by writer/director Victor Salva (who is clearly having a blast) right up to a fantastic and mildly disturbing punchline. It may upset some people after a more straightforward horror but creature feature fans should be in their element.See this if you like She Creature, The Relic, Rawhead Rex. "},{"Title":"Was good but disappointing for a 2001 horror film","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Victor Salva's 2001 'Jeepers Creepers' revolves around a brother and sister, Trish and Darry Jenner, played by Gina Phillips and Justin Long. At the start of the film they are driving home from college for spring break. The Mise-en-scene and cinematography in these shots are excellent, showing the long isolated road of the long ride home. The brother sister roles here are played fantastically. Their constant bickering and name calling is both believable and entertaining. This is a brilliant opening to the film and shows that it has great potential. They are not alone for long as an old truck with a crazed driver starts to terrorize them on the road. This is then where the story starts kicking off, and the horror begins. Perhaps a bit too fast for some peoples liking, as not long after they see a strange figure throwing what at looks like bodies into a pipe, just off the road. AS the figure sees them drive past, it gets into the same old truck that they just saw, and starts chasing them. The truck rams their car repeatedly until they are forced to swerve off the road. This defeats the mystery of the truck, the filmmakers could have left the showing of the monster for later on in the film. Darry then persuades his sister to go back to the pipe, and no surprise to the audience Darry finds some dead bodies. The bodies aren't the best special FX, but the Mise-en-scene of the cave beyond the pipe makes up for this. This is where the film starts to go downhill, as soon as you see the monsters appearance with its bad special FX, the fear is taken from you. This just proves that it is always scarier to leave it to the viewer's imagination. Overall the film conforms to horror stereotypes, for example having a final girl; Trish fails to trade herself for her brother and is therefore the last woman left standing. Also the use of a false ending conforms, but was executed poorly as there is no real closure and there is no direct hint of what the sequel has to offer. However the film does subverts the codes and conventions in some ways as that main character dies, even though the FX of the dead Darry without any eyes is atrocious. Also the use of the song 'Jeepers Creepers' is different, and works well, but again could have worked better, with more use of the song. "}{"Title":"I saw a review on Amazon compare Salva to Hitchcock.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hitchcock? Now, I won't mention Salva's personal issues, because that has no bearing.I will however mention the fact the Hitchcock was a master of suspense, and in the two of Salva's films I've seen, (the Jeepers Creepers duo) this is lacking. Completely. There's none of it. It may run high in his others but nope, knew what was going to happen.I sat watching this film and stating what was about to happen all the way through. I wasn't often wrong.It was mildly entertaining, but total schlock horror, right down to the mediocre acting and the bizarre but predictable ending twist. "},{"Title":"So bad its good","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Thing is this movie collapsed on itself when *spoiler ahead* the cool character know as the creepers turned in a creature. A slasher movie turned into a monster movie. This movie deserves a 4 but it is a film you love to hate. I laugh when my friends call this scary or gory when really it should be a comedy. Oh and don't get me started on Jeepers Creepers 2. I was expecting more from this movie but hey if a horror movie makes me laugh and not scream its a start. The good thing about this is that it returns to the old school type horror that we saw in Nightmare on elm street and Friday the 13th!So overall i give Jeepers a 6/10 It should be 4 but oh well its really not to bad If you liked this review look out for my Jeepers Creepers 2 Review "},{"Title":"Exceeded my expectations! It should exceed yours as well!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was initially hesitant about viewing this movie, as it looked like another dull teen horror flick, along the same lines as Urban Legend and the endless supply of mundane Halloween movies. I was pleasantly surprised as Jeepers Creepers is nothing like those films at all and manages to both thrill and entertain. First things first, I was so relieved to find out in scene one that the two leads were playing brother and sister, as opposed to boyfriend and girlfriend. This immediately ruled out any possibility of the dull sexual tension and excruciating sex scenes that dominate the majority of teen slashers. The Creeper is really scary and is made scarier by the fact that you only ever catch glimpses of him, and never really see a good clear shot of him. The acting is actually decent, and the characters behave how real people would, not just like dumb jocks who want to save the world! A great movie and a welcome addition to the world of horror! "},{"Title":"The Perfect Horror that the New century Borne","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a movie that you may like but you may not like as well.Well 2000 was great year for horror movies but most of them was sequels.We needed a new beginning of a new never done before horror movie.Well,i think Jeepers Creepers is the one that we were screaming for.I don't wanna hear people who says that the horror genre is dead anymore.Here is what will you see in Jeepers Creepers.Brother and Sister are making there way back at home through a highway.Suddenly a big and strange truck horns them and they are very scared.After traveling 2-3miles more they sees the truck parked and a strange man with a costume is looking at them.But the other thing they sees is more important.They sees a bloody dead body and the man throws it through a big pipe.They are very scared and they wanna forget about everything they saw but the man with truck starts chasing them.Well you all now that it isn't a man,it is a creature but the first thoughts are that it is the typical new slasher icon but no.Well i recommend this movie to all of you horror lovers.Scary one by Victor Salva. A movie that won't be forgotten soon. A movie that will be copied by other directors. Really great and original idea for horror. "},{"Title":"like this movie a lot","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like this film a lot and enjoy it more every time I see it, 1st time I watched it I was a bit disappointed with the creeper but now I find him a fantastic villain worthy of a Freddy/Jason style franchise.The first act shows promise of being one of the best horrors of recent years with strong performances from Gina Philips and Justin Long and the script making them more intelligent and following a more accurate chain of logic than most characters in this type of film ever, the sequences with the scary truck and down the tube under the church were genuinely unnerving. Also the creeper on top of the police car and cat lady scenes were good as well, lets just say when the monster as the truck, shadow and creepy man the film was very good.However once the creeper sprouts wings the film goes a bit downhill, then he/it is revealed to be a bat/lizard/demon hybrid you can't help thinking WHAT!!!! This had potential to be so much scarier but just goes into B-movie hell. And the pyschic woman woman annoyed the hell out of me.Watching it again I think they were trying to create a B-movie feel so it redeems itself there and gives itself a full star for the very last scene. "},{"Title":"Derivative of Stephen King, but good production values/cinematography/direction","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The plot and many of the structures in the movies (e.g., the use of the song Jeepers Creepers to build suspense and a sense of foreboding) are very derivative of Stephen King. THe movie feels like it came right out of King's typewriter.So, it is not very original.But what you do have is good production values, decent acting.Beautiful cinematography. The movie is lovely; good eye candy.One of its real strengths is the direction and editing that together work to build very suspenseful shots and scenes. This movie is drenched in nail biting suspense, mainly because of the many artful combinations of shots and editing.Decent movie.A little bit underrated. I would give it a 6.1. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  lets face it J.C and J.C2 may not be up there amongst your nightmare and halloween sets,but there are worse movies out there, turkeys like the Texas chainsaw massacre2.imean lets be real here while some of us may prefer to see a film which makes us think the rest of us would rather just sit and watch the totty run past. this film provides this in its stars justin long and the forgettable actress who plays his sister, if you want classic horror then play a freddy krueger DVD,but if you just want some enjoyable fun then slide it on and sit back cos you know that this is a good choice.if the apocalypse comes - beep me-buffy summers  "},{"Title":"A horror film, with a comedy element, perfect for late night viewing.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After reading the reviews for this film, I didn't know whether or not it would be worth watching. But I watched it on TV the other night, and was pleasantly surprised. This would be the type of thing you would think of when someone says horror film. Dark lonely road, to teenagers scared out of their minds, mysterious, scary monster, and the good old chase scenes.The film can be split into two parts, the first 40 minutes before the creeper is revealed which will keep you on the edge of your seat the whole time, and was brilliant. And the last hour, which had a few scary moments but does not really compare to the opening 40 minutes. The creeper being revealed half way through the film ruined it, it would have been better to reveal the creeper nearer the end of the film. I didn't think this film was that gory, but that's just my opinion. It did get a bit far fetched at times, but I think that just added to the film, and helped to make it funny. This film did have quiet a few funny moments, such as the end scene, which helped lighten the dark plot.There were a few moments where the characters seemed to state the obvious, like `You know the part in horror movies when somebody does something really stupid, and everybody hates him for it? This is it.' This didn't really need saying. My favorite thing about this film has to be the look of utter terror on Darry's face practically throughout the whole film. I didn't really get the psychic, she confused me, coz what she said didn't come true, the telephone call was ok, but did she really need to reappear at the end of the film?I enjoyed this film, it's worth a look, the simple plot and scary moments make it perfect to watch with a group of friends late one night, because the plot is easy to follow and won't confuse.  The only thing I did find slightly disappointing was the lack of conclusion, it was just left. Why was the creeper there? But then I suppose that's for the sequel!  "},{"Title":"the absolute best movie ever!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I swear I love this movie!!! I've seen it at least 70 times, and I know every word by heart! I am Justin Long's #1 fan, and I just love him to death! My room has posters all over the place of Jeepers Creepers, and a million pictures of hot Justin Long!!!!! There will never be a movie like it! I know everything about that movie, and things I don't I figure out one way or another. I guess you can say I'm a Jeepers Creepers freak! or better yet, a Justin Long freak!!! Any movie with Justin Long in it is great, and my favorite movies! This movie is my all time favorite! If I had to rate this movie 1-10, I'd rate it a million!!!!!  "},{"Title":"A good monster- movie","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I like this film, and I´m a little bit ashamed, but I also love all the other films of writer-director Victor Salva (Powder is still the best). Jeepers Creepers begins with an abnormal teenie-touch, i mean that dialogic-minimalism and that suspense (with that car Beat U)- Also that few characters (I think five or six important) make this movie interesting. When it turns into a monster-movie, after sixty minutes or so, maybe it´s a trivial, but still good. Jonathan Breck plays the Creeper with such intensity (only Robert Freddy Kureger Englund is better)Seven of ten stars... "}{"Title":"One of the better recent horror flicks","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've noticed a lot of people calling this movie crap but I have to disagree. It is fun to watch and keeps you watching, it is fast-paced and surprisingly, somewhat original too. All the horror movies these days seem to rip off the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, so it was refreshing to see that it was not a TCM or belated Scream knock-off.The main characters are likeable enough, at least I thought so, and the all important death scenes are fairly interesting and creative.Sure, it may not be the most intelligent film, but horror flicks were never meant to be, and its definately one of the better ones to come out of Hollywood as of late. Well worth renting. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS GALORE*","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Every once in a while a horror movie comes along that guides countless other horror movies into a certain direction. I see Jeepers Creepers as one of those movies. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre brought 'real' horror to our doorstep.... Halloween invented a 'Slasher' genre...... Nightmare on Elm Street dared to bring a surrealism to the screen..... And Jeepers Creepers brings to life a monster that evolves right before our eyes.At the video shop that I opperate, many people laugh at this film. They give it no credibility, saying that it is stupid and one of the worst films of the year. These people just dont get it. The second that the Creeper spreads his wings, people turn off. This is the evolution of the film and it's villain. At first he begins simply as a truck which terrorises the characters. A short while later we see him as a sinister shadow in the distance. Throughout the film he keeps getting closer and closer to the screen to the point where we see that he is some kind of prehistoric-ish monster.... where do you evolve from that? WINGS! It is logical and brilliant. It gives him the advantage over all of these other tired movie villains. This is truly an original conecept for a horror film to do.I really hope that Jeepers Creepers becomes a clever and intelligent franchise just like Nightmare on Elm Street. With the exception of a few bumps, the 'Nightmare' series remained intelligent and clever. With a bit of luck this will do the same. The Creeper deserves to be considered a Beacon Light for lots of new movies that come along. Let them look up to him and wish...... if only I were 'he'.I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Half good, half bad, but I like it.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ~*~* Minor Spoiler ~*~*I saw 'Jeepers Creepers' for the first time about a year ago. I had never heard of it before, which seemed to be odd since movies get so much advertising these days. I found it to be a mixed movie in which the first half was excellent while the second half went down hill.  All in all, though, I enjoyed it.The main reason I like this film is because it is different, to say the least.  It has a very unique plot with a weird turn of events.  (It got a little ridiculous at a couple of points, but I was able to sit through it.)  Two other things that made the film good  the cast and the simplicity.  I was very impressed with the cast.  Justin Long and Gina Philips were great.  They worked well together and their acting helped move the movie along so that it didn't get boring or dull.  I had seen the two of them in bit roles prior to 'Jeepers' and I would definitely like to see them again in something else.  Who says a movie can't work on a low budget and still turn out good?  Ah, simplicity.  It's a beautiful thing.  The film's obvious low budget is one thing that I really appreciate and tend to look for when searching for movies.  Everything about 'Jeepers' is simple.  The cast is uh, quite small, the set is nothing spectacular, the writing is straight forward, and that's what I like to see.I'll break the film down into two sections  one being the first half of the film and the other being the second half.  The movie jumps right into the action and doesn't beat around the bush, which was something that I appreciated.  It continues to move at a steady pace, everything's going good until...the Creeper starts making out with the cop's head.  Yep, that's where I started to go 'What?'.  Now while the second half of the film, and even the ending, are weaker than the first part, I think that it all evens out.  Since it is a relatively short film, I wasn't bored with it (as I usually am with the films that I sit through).  When it comes down to it, 'Jeepers' is a good film that kind of got a little silly, but since I found most of it to be worthwhile, I would watch it again.  And I have.  About 50 times.  Because I bought the movie.  And that is something that I rarely do which goes to show that I actually do like it despite having let me down at times.Having not heard about this film before stumbling on it at the videostore, I'm surprised because it really is something worth catching.  The reviews I've read aren't all that great, but I don't listen to critics, so I would recommend ignoring them while trying to see this movie.  Overall, 'Jeepers Creepers' is a good film to watch every now and again for some cheap and easy scares. "},{"Title":"More than eyes meet","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (Contains spoilers) What an incongruous mess... It reaches the zenith of nonsense when Patricia Belcher enters the scene as Jezelle, the town's channeler, singing the Warren-Mercer classic (title) song, and not even knowing why. But I still found the movie fascinating in an underground way, due to Victor Salva's infamous past relations with young actors. It is not obvious but suggested in one or two occasions that The Creature is after something more than Justin Long's eyes. Eileen Brennan shoots The Creature a couple of times, but then... those incredible wings flap for the first time. If you don't watch it now, don't miss it on next Halloween. "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers, I've seen it with my peepers....","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And it ain't too bad, really. <spoilers ahead>The monster is different from your run of the mill beastie. Knowing nothing about the film when I went into it, I had no idea what the beast was. First thought was it was some crazed inbred yokel. Then it became apparent that it was something more than that. But even at the end, with all of the information to hand, I still can't really say what it was meant to be, if anything in particular at all. A pleasant change from the run of the mill vampire/werewolf/alien monster, though. And it was nice not knowing what it was capable of, unlike the typical vampire movie.The film is reasonably good at keeping your attention, though there is a surprising amount of empty dialogue at the start designed to draw you into liking the two lead characters. Once things kick off, though, the action and sense of menace is well maintained and such unimportant dialogue fades away.What does detract from an otherwise good movie, however, is the way the two lead actors play hysterical teen, calm-under-pressure teen, swapping roles with each new horrifying experience. Also annoying is the way the female lead is totally useless at getting the car to do anything in an emergency. After she ground the gears for the tenth time trying to get first in one of several such sequences I wanted to slap her sooooo hard! I guess the clutch was meant to be giving out or something, but ye gods! Overdone plot device, or what!There are also sundry other typical horror staples to contend with, such as the psychic woman who sees things, the dodgy car which won't start, the don't go in there alone scenes and so on. But, apart from the cat lady (I have no idea what that was about other than to further the psychic's claims of legitimacy), mostly the film works pretty well.Other than these points, the movie is a reasonable horror movie. I won't say it's particularly scary. But it does keep the tension going nicely. Worth a look in for fans of the genre. But don't expect edge of the seat terror. "},{"Title":"Justin still RULES!!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, this movie wasn't as bad as everyone says.  I mean, I can't see it winning an Oscar or anything but come on, what other horror movies usually do?Let me start by saying that Justin Long (who I LOVE from Ed) is absolutely awesome in this movie!!  I mean, seriously, he's like the only person I've ever seen look realistically scared in a horror film.  Most people just scream whenever it feels right, but he seriously looked scarred by what he saw in the church basement.  After that scene he looked like he was in vegitative state.  It was awesome!  Justin's my horror movie hero!!!The banter between the siblings was great and so realistic and cute.  Anyone with a sibling will appreciate it, cause its so true how you have little inside things.  It showed better depth in the characters.The ending kinda sucked and was REALLY gross, I agree with that, but it was still scary enough for me to recommend it.  It kinda looked like they ran outta time to do something up to par with the rest of the movie, which is too bad.I'd still see it, plus Justin Long is hot!!!  LOL love the tattoo shots!!-JanP.S. The guy credited as Dying Boy looks just like my sister's best friend......freaky! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous Yet Fun to Watch","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers* Although this film is rather absurd, it is still worth watching. It was good enough to go back and rent two years after viewing in the theater.The highs of the movie are the old supertruck that the Creeper drives in the beginning of the movie, the semi suspenseful scene in the police station, and the bodies in the basement of the church. The lows are the old psychic bitch, the maddening song she sings over and over, and the idiotic main characters who would have never gotten into such a mess if they had just kept driving.Overall, a fun 90 minutes to spend on a lazy Friday night. 6/10 "},{"Title":"unique and creepy!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Anyone with a sibling will love the opening dialog between the main characters. Anyone who is tired of seeing movies where the police don't believe or can never see the creature will be pleased. Anyone who wants something different that is truly scary will be pleased. Those of you who aren't have no taste and I pity your life. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Amending my first review...","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I go see a movie, particularly a *horror* movie, I usually go in with little to no expectations.  More often than not, expectations can seriously ruin a movie.  In Jeepers Creepers, well, I went in thinking one thing...and got something entirely different.  Because of that (and anyone who read my first review knows this), I absolutely hated..and I mean HATED Jeepers Creepers. But, in seeing the commercials for the upcoming sequel, I decided to give this one a second chance.  So, being the good horror moviegoer that I am, I emptied my brain of all expectations and delusions of grandeur and gave it a go.  I'm glad I did.  Sorta.Ok, granted this time around I no longer had the desire to shove toothpicks in my gums.  This is a good thing.I found myself still enjoying the hell outta the first 25-30 minutes or so.  Fantastic buildup with tension and fear.  I was a happy camper.  Midway into the movie, however, I again noticed it slipping.  But not so much as I did last time.  This time I was able to stay focused and enjoy the ride.I was still bored at times.  And of course had to laugh at some of the ridiculous errors in continuity (but who goes to see a horror film for continuity???), but overall, I rather enjoyed the experience this time around.  The creeper was cool lookin and the acting was good...it even had the sense to poke a bit of fun at itself.  So, I was still a happy camper.But then the ending came.  Well, not the end ending, but the sorta-ending (being vague I know, but don't want to ruin anything for anybody).  And, well...I was still a bit disappointed.  Honestly, I can't really say why.  Something just rubbed me the wrong way.  Maybe it was the psychic, or the fact that a small town suddenly had 30+ police officers on duty.  I dunno.  What I do know is, Jeepers went from being a tension-filled thrill to somewhat  of a dud.Don't get me wrong.  The first half hour of the movie is DEFINITELY worth seeing and the last bit is certainly watchable.Just take my advice, please...go in with your mind clear and ready for some good old horror fun.  "},{"Title":"Even casual horror film fans should NOT miss this one","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A 5.7 rating is way too harsh for this movie. The first half is exceptionally suspenseful, and really involves the audience with the characters' predicaments and decisions. The ending is very UnHollywood (a good thing, needless to say) and will stick with you for a long time - I promise. And then there is the rest of the movie, which is pretty silly at times, and stops this from being the classic it could have been. Still, I would have never seen it but for a recommendation, so take mine and rent it today. "}{"Title":"great first part and ending","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSThis is far from my favorite horror movie, but still I felt like commenting. Seems like many people have been let down by the second half or from when the Creeper shows his face(and wings). That exactly my opinion also. It starts very good with the two characters in the car, the first appearance of the Creeper-car, the curiousness that leads them to return to the house, the cave and the chase afterwords. It´s all creepy and exciting, but it all starts to go downhill after the appearance of the Creeper´s wing there in the middle of the road. That´s when you think Ok, what now then?!I guess most horror movies work better until the killer shows himself, then the excitement disappears. Maybe you feel a little let down because it was better in your own imagination. I liked the ending though, because it was not what you would expect and it was.. Creepy. Someone here say it´s a predictable ending, but I certainly don´t agree. Not what you normally see in a Hollywood movie. NoteI also highly enjoyed the ending of SEVEN.To sum it all upgreat first part and ending, the Creeper looked good but I would like to see less of him. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great in spots but has problems","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is great first half of the movie, it is tense and horrific with bits you figure out 5 minutes before they happen. If they had left the creature unseen (like jaws)until the last few seconds it would have been a better movie, seeing the creature, you start to see the fake ness in it, it is part creature from the black lagoon and Pinhead. The movie had greatness but it when away. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good film   *spoilers*","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'Jeepers Creepers' is a good horror film that works well, particularly in the first half.  The opening chase scene pays homage to Stephen Speilberg's 'Duel' and although the dialogue is poor at times the enigmatic nature of the 1st half of the film is very good, and suspenseful. Although 'Jeepers Creepers' falls into a couple of cliches, e.g. when the two teens go back to investigate instead of going to find help and the 'if this were a horror movie' line. The second half sees 'Jeepers Creepers' lose it's way slightly as The Creeper is revealed. With movie monsters it is very very difficult to make the monster look satisfactory, with many they are a dissappointment, the only example i can think of a great movie monster is 'Alien'. So that begs the question, why reveal it so early in the film (approx halfway through)? I dont know the answer to that. Maybe if the creeper had been held back longer the effect would have been greater. Nevertheless this is a good film with some scary moments.  The song 'Jeepers Creepers' appears to have no lyrical connection to the film or any of it's characters, until the end when it becomes clear. Very enjoyable.7/10 "},{"Title":"went from good to bad to good","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ok ill make this quick... it started out creepy like Texas Chainsaw then when i knew who the Creeper was i wasnt that scared until the last ten minutes...i dont know but the end creeped me out kind of like the end to a creepy X files.... 5 out of ten here "},{"Title":"this girl is not happy with this film","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i went to go see this movie on the pretense that it was the best horror flick in 10 yrs. well i can honestly say that whoever said that must not have SEEN, a horror film in 10 yrs!i have never wanted to walk out of a film so badly in my life. the only thing that kept me seated was the hope that it might be one of those bad films with a great ending but oh boy was i wrong.the only good thing i do have to say about it is that visually it is quite good with the blood and guts and all but the story and plot stank and quite frankly i am shocked to see they have made a sequall.so i warn you people do not watch this film, it is bad bad bad, and not in a good way! rent out human trafick instead. deadly film!! "},{"Title":"Wrong in every way, but I love it","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is wrong in every way, from the beginning to the end. However, I consider it on the top of my favorite movies list.  Two kids are coming home from college and they happen upon something so evil, so horrible, that you couldn't even imagine it.  They must find a way to escape. This movie will strike you as one of two things.  It will either be scary as hell and really cool, or it will be stupid.  I found it cool, and most find it scary. Get this movie.  It is worth it. "},{"Title":"Jeepers, This Movie Did NOT Give Me the Creepers","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was definitely the worst movie I saw in 2001. If I watched it today, it would be the worst movie of 2003. The fact that anyone likes this movie in the first place is beyond any sane person's comprehension.This movie is completely boring. Nothing that is interesting or exciting happens. You'd think seeing the Creeper would be exciting, but it isn't. It looks so fake, and is so cheesy it almost brings physical pain. One part that I specifically hated was when they are trying to run over him with the car, and he jumps over it. He jumps over it! I know, he's evil, but they could at least make it look decent - I could almost see the wires holding him up.It rips off other movies, promotes unoriginality, spews clichés, and manages to be completely uninteresting and horrible. Do not see this. Wait, not only 'do not see this' but try to avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I gave this movie 2.5 out of 10 exclusively for the first 15 minutes of the film, which were actually scary.  But as soon as the kids get off the phone with the psychic lady, things plunge to predictable stupid.  Not even the awesome cameo by Eileen Brennan can save this disappointment. "},{"Title":"Good viewing, but not excellent as it could have been","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half hour of Jeepers Creepers is excellent. Tense and very good pacing. Makes you wish Hollywood good produce more like this. However, after this period, the movie falls flat and decides to enter the realms of the X-Files. What a shame. But it is an okay film overall and one certainly worth viewing.   "},{"Title":"Stylish but ridiculous","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie starts out great. Yeah, it is totally illogical, but aren't all horror movies?  It is well directed, one of the few horror films of recent memory with genuine scares, not lame tricks with things jumping out of the dark. Then about halfway through, the story switches from genuine horror to corny monster movie tactics, and it all goes downhill. The villain in the movie is so much more frightening as the psychopath with the jacket, hat and concealed face than he is as the hairy bat thing. Not to mention the inconsistencies that begin to pile up (How exactly does that psychic woman fit into the story? What significance does the Jeepers Creepers song have, other than one line that makes for an eerie ending? If that monster is indestructable and can fly, why the heck does it waste its time chasing after its victims in a rusty old truck?) A great start, but an unfortunately dumb finish.   "}{"Title":"Stylish but ridiculous","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie starts out great. Yeah, it is totally illogical, but aren't all horror movies?  It is well directed, one of the few horror films of recent memory with genuine scares, not lame tricks with things jumping out of the dark. Then about halfway through, the story switches from genuine horror to corny monster movie tactics, and it all goes downhill. The villain in the movie is so much more frightening as the psychopath with the jacket, hat and concealed face than he is as the hairy bat thing. Not to mention the inconsistencies that begin to pile up (How exactly does that psychic woman fit into the story? What significance does the Jeepers Creepers song have, other than one line that makes for an eerie ending? If that monster is indestructable and can fly, why the heck does it waste its time chasing after its victims in a rusty old truck?) A great start, but an unfortunately dumb finish.   "},{"Title":"A decent horror flick.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked it! And as everyone has said, the movie starts off strong, but falls apart near the end. Still, it manages to conjure up a few scares, and is interesting enough to hold your attention. I think the acting by both Gina Phillips and Justin Long are what save this movie. I actually like the characters, and because of that the ending haunted me for days after. "},{"Title":"Out of the average...","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning!! Possible SPOILERS!Jeprs Creepers takes place somewhere in te Southern States, where to siblings, going home after college, are nearly killed by someone driving a truck. A few minutes later, someone is dumpin' bodies down a tube, and from that start, all hell breaks loose. The movie is for those who think that sudden jolts, riveting suspense, and supernatural beings getting run over by cars is cool.Nothin' more of my review.My rating from one to ten 9. "},{"Title":"They call this a horror Film????","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a pitiful excuse for a horror, this was worse than darkness falls, and that was pitiful. This movie starts out with a brother and a sister driving home from collage or something. When an old beat up truck follows speeds pass them. Later they see the truck and a cloked figure throw a body in a hole. So they decide to check it out. The story and everything else just dies fom here. There was practically no support music except Jeepers Creppers. This movie is garbage not even thrilling, bloody, or good. I remember when horror movies were good, and scary. But today most of them are crap. Please do not watch this movie, along with darkness falls, just don't waste your time. I give this movie a 2/10 really bad!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers why'd I watch this?","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Jeepers Creepers isn't the worst film I've ever seen, but it's certainly in the running. It's actually not all that bad for about the first half, and then things go seriously pear-shaped.If you haven't seen it yet, try and catch it on TV or borrow it from someone. Granted, people have different tastes and this may be to yours, but I wouldn't recommend you spend any money on it.****SPOILER WARNING!****The bit when the previously just about plausible creeper gets run over is where it all starts to go wrong. Film makers take note Please stop the whole Phew! We killed it. Oh no! It got up! thing. It's got to the point now where we'd be shocked if it stayed down.To add injury to insulted intelligence, it then turns into a big bat. I'm not sure whether the movie goes downhill from here, or at this point instantly hits rock-bottom and just stays there. It doesn't even score points on the so cheesy it's good-o-meter, it's just plain poor. "},{"Title":"Oh my dear lord, how laughable this film truly is!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The spiel that accompanies this abomination claims it to be the greatest  'horror film' of the decade, yet I've seen more terrifying things in the changing rooms of my local gym!I won't spoil the plot (and I'm being very charitable with that description), suffice it to say that a very promising start is quickly ended when the demonic protagonist of the film is shown to look very much like Albert Steptoe's long-haired brother.  Much to my amusement this creature of the dark place even performs the Steptoe trademarked limp/waddle.  From that point on I simply couldn't resist humming the TV programme's theme tune whenever the creature came into view.Abysmal acting, shockingly bad script, dire direction and an ending which simply screams 'there's going to be a sequel whether you like it or not' all make me wonder just how much the critics must have been paid to heap the praise on this movie that it received when released.Unless low-brow, embarassingly trashy sub 'B-movie' flicks are your thing, avoid like the plague.  "},{"Title":"a true movie that make you thrill","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two students (brother and sister) are on the road. They saw a strange big car (truck?) that wants to speed them. After the engine is far, they continue and see it beside the road. The driver is passing a kind of corpse inside a pipe... This movie is really good and not like others recent movies with young people. Not a comedy, you thrill when you look at... Watch it untill the end... "},{"Title":"Jeepers Crappers more like","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The dvd says american critics are calling this The best horror movie of the last 10 years.  Well I dread to think what on earth they have been watching all that time because this is appalling trash.  As for saying it is the scariest movie of the year that has to be false advertising.  You have to see this film to believe just how bad it is but for heavens sake don't waste your money on it wait till it comes on tv.  If justice is done that will be at some obscure time on channel 5 as it doesn't deserve a prime time slot. As for the creeper he was fine until you actually saw his face then this just descended into the realms of so many other teen scary movies. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Edgy and taut horror offering","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed Jeepers Creepers. It is rife with atmosphere, suspense and an eerie quality of imminent dread that is sustained throughout.  The premise is scary, and the eclectic cast does an extraordinary job. I thought Gina Phillips was just super all the way. I was sorry to hear that she had declined to do the sequel. I believe she certainly could have carried it off superbly.   As with any horror film, there are some stretches of logic that must be made by the viewer. But I think that people doing what we instinctively know they shouldn't do, creates the thrill and suspense of these films. One keeps saying, No, no, don't do that. It's stupid! It's crazy! But if they didn't do it, the film wouldn't work at all. In Jeepers Creepers the suspense works well; and an aura of impending doom pervades the action.  It keeps one guessing, and hoping, as to the eventual resolution. The only elements that I considered as pejorative to the overall effect, were the increasing literal perceptions we get of the monster, and the rather inconsistent interaction between it and the protagonists.  Still the acting, and the edgy quality of production prevailed for me. I recommend it to horror fans.   "},{"Title":"Starts off well...","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After seeing several trailers for this movie I was expecting a good old fashioned horror film, you know - one that's actually scary. However, after a good start the film rapidly gives away the psychological dimension  it requires by becoming too familiar with its personification of evil. Thus the viewer is left patiently waiting for the end of the film with the only shocks remaining being moments of humour.In short, this could have been much much better than it is. "}{"Title":"Another One of These","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!!!Unfortunately, the IMDB restricts me to 1000 words in which I may decry this film as RIDICULOUS, even for a teen-horror-cliche type of movie.  If I were to say all my thoughts in paragraph form, I would wind up rambling and making no sense, so read my list as to why this movie SUCKS!!!!1.  No one would ever, EVER go back to the site where you saw someone dump a body.  However, the case in this movie was even more ridiculous than that because the guy that they saw dump the body just tried to run them off the road TWICE!!(I'm guessing they were driving home from community junior college for the challenged).2.  When they ran that thing over, why the hell didn't they just keep going! I doubt any sober person would drive to a police station and say that they just ran over a monster and would very much appreciate some help.3.  WHY didn't they explain that psychic's dream at the end!  Did she know it was him that the thing was after or was she really wrong.  Also, I doubt after seeing what happened people would still think she was a crazy old lady.4.  Poor Derry would have not been able to scream in the dark as he was. His head was clearly punctured through and he would have died instantly(unless the screaming was the result of listening to that song. I felt like I was watching a porky pig cartoon).5.  It's not exciting when the bad guy can't die.6.  MOVIES ABOUT MONSTERS DON'T WORK!!!!  There is NO SUCH THING AS MONSTERS and therefore no one is going to see this movie and feel creeped out when they go out at night.If you want to see a real horror movie that takes place in the country away from all possible help, watch the original Texas Chain Saw Massacre, where you may feel the scenario may really happen to you(I know there are a lot more people who would want to see you tortured to death than monsters that do). "},{"Title":"Bad, bad movie.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am sorry, but I have to say that this was just about the least frightening horror movie that I have ever seen (with the possible exception of Shocker). It was gory, yes, but blood and guts don't equal fear. At the time that this came out, one of my then-coworkers said it was awful, and when I asked him what the plot was he said I don't know, There's this monster and it eats you, or something. I thought that he was exaggerating for humorous effect, but then I saw the movie. There was no fear, no suspense (although much frustration at the sheer idiocy of the main characters), and no actual story. My best friend and I tried to figure out, afterward just exactly what the premise of the whole awful thing was, and it boiled down to EXACTLY what my coworker had said. Nothing is explained, and not much actually happens aside from goofy cannibalistic highway fight scenes. The truck scene that some enjoyed was just plain painful for me, with a rustbucket that must have had nitro or something running down a car that ought to have left it in the dust. This movie made me laugh, but not where they wanted me to.   "},{"Title":"treeee-mendous","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know if I've ever seen a worse movie in my life.  That being said, you just can't turn away from this movie.  Horrible dialogue, ok characters, cheesy bad guy, and the silliest plot thread I've ever seen.  Nice and haunting ending, somber even.Great cult value, but that's really about it. "},{"Title":"DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie started out really good, with the creepy truck that dumped the body in the tube and tried to run them off the road. The part where Derry goes into the tube is DEFFENITLY scary.......but after that it goes downhill....... the whole supernatural thing just doesn't go with me........... so if u want to see a good naturally scary movie watch Jeepers Creepers until the part where the physcic lady comes and meets them and then turn ur t.v. off because the rest of the movie SUCKS!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Few Things","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The truck scene was lifted from Spielbergs Duel.The fluid dripping on the the tennis shoe came straight out of Alien.The psychic came from Poltergeist.The hole in the unfortunate police officer came out of Predator.The final scene could and should have been much more gory.Eilleen Brennan was just great as the cat lady.The real horror of the movie was the beating the transmission of that great old car took  at the hands of that stupid sister.All and all, I liked this movie as great mindless entertainment for a saturday night.  "},{"Title":"Very lame until the very end *possible spoilers*","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Technically well-made, but completely ineffective horror film about a brother and sister, on their way home from college, who stumble upon a dark figure dumping what appear to be bodies down a sewer pipe.  After some ill-advised investigating, they discover hundreds of petrified bodies in a huge underground cavern, and that the mysterious culprit is not really human at all.  Moves along at a swift pace, but it's all been done before (TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, DUEL, ALIEN, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS), and it doesn't take long for the plot holes and self-referrential SCREAM-like dialogue to erode one's interest.  It does lead up to an admirably creepy finale, however.  The title is completely inconsequential, other than to serve as an excuse for the filmmakers to repeatedly make references to the song--and use it over the closing credits.   "},{"Title":"Great start - bad ending","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  okay so i am in the same majority  of people who loved the first half hour of this film and hated the ending. Gina Philips could be a star in the making though. Salva might get it right with JC2, or he may get it horribly wrong again "},{"Title":"Good start... what happened?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half hour or so of this film is very good indeed. It was kind of like 'Halloween' crossed with 'Duel'. The two kids were almost likeable in fact. I thought it had finally verged into the original - but then disaster struck. I think it was around the time when the Creeper thing actually appeared that I lost all faith. Have you ever noticed that something isn't so scary anymore when you actually see the whole thing? Well just think of it like that - only this time you actually see the whole thing for about an hour - and then it's the end of the film.  Not only did it lose all the tension and everything that made it scary, it also seemed to drift into the ridiculous. Someone has all ready mentioned the bit where they repeatedly run the Creeper over with their car - you are so right, my friend. They should have left the damn thing lying there and done 140 down the road. Basically, this is a stupid, stupid film. Watch the first half an hour or so, and then turn it off and make up your own hour. Anything will do.  "},{"Title":"Creepy first half, flat second half","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First, the good Victor Salva has to be given credit for coming up with one the best one-two set-up intro punches to the viewer's gut ever delivered in a horror film in recent years. The opening with the brother and sister trading good-natured insults while rolling down a typically bucolic wide-open stretch of U.S. interstate, calling up echoes of the cropdusting scene in North By Northwest and lulling you into thinking okay, he's gonna start ripping off classic flicks to pad out his own, big deal...bridging to the scene under the abandoned church where the brother's eyes slowly adjust to the darkness, revealing a scene straight out of Gustav Dore'...sweet jeezus, you just KNOW this ain't gonna be a Sean Cunningham hayride, kids! And then continuing with the brother's pleading with the local deputies(for god's sake, why won't you believe me?), the camera's passing note of  the brother's tattoo of a black rose near his navel and its' final grisly meaning punctuated at the end...and never mind the monster's near indestuctability; even Freddy Krueger, Jason, or even Leatherface never did the things that gargoyle-boy does to his victims with the kind of sick, EVIL humor that he perpetrates(and before? The missing persons posters on the sheriff's bulletin board is another subtle, but brilliant, shot).     And now, the bad(WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER!)...if our interstate killer with scales and stylish mortician's duds has been doing this for so long--more than 20 years--why hasn't SOMEBODY noticed by now? Even given that the killer is more bullet-resistant than a Paul Blaisdell creation(if you don't know who he is, shame on you!)it's hard to believe that one the cops couldn't figure out a way to at least keep him from flying out of Dodge, so to speak! Which leaves me awfully ambivalent about this movie. It starts off the first half with the sort of two-fisted lyrical horror right out of a novel by Joe Lansdale, or Ray Garton, something I never expected to see in a MOVIE, for pete's sake(and don't bring up Clive Barker; so far NOBODY--not even Barker himself--has been able to bring the right frisson of gore and visceral believability of his stories, although Lord of Illusions came close)! And then, in the second half, it goes off the rails into oh, come on, this is getting ridiculous. And so on, to that final horrifying shot, and thinking two things Oh my god , that's what he was going after!, and Okay, NOW what? Is there going to be a sequel, so they can clear up what they should have explained in the first movie? Being ambiguous about your monster's origin NEVER plays well, especially if you've already shown it. Just ask the guys who made turkeys like The Dark, or Monster a Go-Go, or Wheels of Terror, or...well you get the idea. I hope. Rent this movie just for the first half, to see how it should be done, and try not to pay too much attention to  the second half.  "},{"Title":"Good little horror flick","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I missed Jeepers Creepers when it came out in the theaters, so I eventually spotted it on the DVD shelf at the video store.  The synopsis on the box pack piqued my interest, so I took it home thinking it would be similar to the numerous Freddy and Jason movies that have dominated the horror genre for the last 20 years (I'm sure it's been that long!).  Anyway, the movie starts off with brother and sister driving home from college when they spot a burly figure of a person dumping what seems to be a covered up dead body down a drain.  They keep going but Darius (the brother) becomes increasingly concerned that the person covered by the sheet may only be injured and would certainly die if they do nothing.  His sister Trish, however, wants to keep going out of fear that intervening could lead to dire consequences as it would in most horror movies (a good reference they've been watching them at least).  Of course, they turn back and Darry climbs (then falls) down the drain to find not only the person wrapped in a sheet, but a few other victims as well.  Brother and sister eventually find their way out to look for the nearest sheriff, only to be pursued and nearly run off the road by the large figure in a huge truck.  The two eventually make it to a small town to report their findings to the sheriff's office, but a series of incidents make it certain they have company (the wrong kind of course!).  They find their car broken into and Darry's dirty clothes strung out all over the ground.  It's a sure bet now whatever's pursuing them has the characteristics of a bloodhound, with the likelihood it has Darry's scent down pat.  Brother and sister later get help from a woman who's in tune with the supernatural, telling them what's hunting them down.  No matter what they throw at it though (like running it down with their car several times), it keeps coming for more until it gets its target.  The two fight valiantly until the very end, which I thought was tragic.  Yep, for once I was actually sympathetic for what happened.  Frankly, I hope they don't do a sequel since it was a pretty good movie.  To do so would certainly jump the shark as with what's already happened with the Jason and Freddy franchises.    "}{"Title":"creepy enough","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ive just watched this movie, and would like to give it a little bit more credit where its due, I found it very scary and creepy, there's an eery feeling throughout the film, that even when nothing is happening, you can feel a really freaky scene brewing up, it is different, but because it goes by its own rules does not make it a bad movie it sticks to its own ideas, i was completely hooked all the way through, and did not get up once, the ending is totally original, you don't expect what happened to happen, and it did. A brilliant film for any horror fan, and watch out for the scene where the hideous looking creature eats out someones tongue. Great stuff "},{"Title":"Cheesey and a pathetic attempt for a movie","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The film, I could write a lot about, but I don't have the time. It's just downright crummy though. The acting is *decent*, the special effects are alright, and the plot is just enough to hold the movie together. Fairly entertaining, it may scare you. And the Jeepers Creepers 2, coming out in 2003, that's just sad. I wouldn't be DRAGGED into a theater to see it. This one was bad enough. Want my advice? Don't waste your money buying it, unless your weird and you like this movie. It's worth seeing if your really bored, or need a cheesey horror flick at a sleepover. 1 out of 4 stars. It could have been worse... "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was quite good, for the first hour or so.  It held me intrigued, and practically what I had envisioned should happen, did happen. Trust me.***SPOILER***  It was a good start, I suppose, the truck coming up behind the brother and sister, scaring them (why?) and driving off.  Then in passing on, the brother spots the truck, and its driver dumping bags down an open pipe.  The driver looks quite sinister, with dark garbs and a stetson hat, and he spots the brother and sister looking at him, and follows their eye contact as they pass, from a distance, right until they are out of his eyesight.  Thought that was quite good.***SPOILER CONTINUES***  What followed after that was quite good, the siblings investigate when the trucker disappears, dark and dingy pipe, bodies found in the bags and numerous bodies on the interior walls and ceiling.  Yeah, serious.  After that it kept going, so watch the film if you haven't seen it to find out, but it was after the introduction of the police station that the film fell.  Where it held us in a serious mode before, it turned slightly comical.  The trucker appears and isn't really a trucker. He's more like something from Demon Seed or David Cronenberg's 'Nightbreed.'And it ends there after.  Apparently there's a sequel, and the storyline, if it remains that way up to the film's screening, sounds quite silly. Jeepers Creepers started good, and then waned some 30 mins before the ending.  It gets 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?????","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As I was walking along in MVC I saw JC on sale for £7.99 I thought great and its dvd.  This film is meant to be brilliant best horror in ages etc etc. Lets just say Im glad I bought it on sale and not for the regular price of twenty quid cos I would have wanted my money back!As the other reviews say the beginning is promising and the scene with the creature putting the bodies down the pipes is creepy, but then it turns into a complete farce!!!  A psychic comes along to supposedly shed some light but instead continually asks questions which no one knows the answers!!!!!!!SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS!!!!As it turns out it doesnt matter anyway cos the bloke gets it ( and quite horrifically) and as much as I love a twist in a tale this ending just didn't seem to wrap the story up.  I cannot see how a sequel is gonna be any good if we already know about the creature and what it does and what it wants, the element of scare is gone.  This dvd will be on my shelf collecting dust Im sure till the next car boot.  "},{"Title":"Worst horror movie of the 90's!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie got huge advertising when it was released, I remember 1 quote from 1 of the papers saying 'scariest US film in 10 years.' For this reason alone I couldn't wait to see it. After 30 minutes I thought this is really good and tense. The whole car driving thing had introduced us to the characters, and everything's being set up for your standard cat and mouse horror.  Yet I was so dissapointed by the end, the characters we'd come to known, were now just irritating and unlike characters such as Laurie Strode, I couldn't care less if the leading two were killed off. In fact after getting over the shock of seeing the guy dead at the end, it actually became quite hilarious. Was this the worse ending to a film ever? I know happy ever after endings can be ridiculous but at least you leave the cinema with a sense of good feeling. Of cause a sequel was inevitable and obviously coming soon.What was the coloured psychic woman's use besides to irritate the audience? But the worst part of this movie had to be the actual scary character who you believe to be a psychopathic human like Michael Myers or Jason, and turns out to be a flying monster!! As soon as I discovered this I lost all interest in the film. Its like saying Michael Myers is really from Mars. And to say it was a twist to the film is laughable. Maybe I didn't like this film because of the pre-release hype it had recieved.  Overall I really despised this film and the only good thing about it was the addictive 'Jeepers Creepers song'! I give it 1/5 because it did have the odd tense moment. "},{"Title":"Let down by the second half","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Coz the first half of this film is scary. That big truck coming after you on a lonely road. Plenty of jumpy moments, but those kids sure were dumb.Liked the fact that it was brother and sister, not a couple. Made some things more intersting.  But this film was very much let down by the creature itself.Ooooh look, its unkillable, it doesn't stop, blah blah blah. Seen it all before, and not only that but it looks like rubbish.Very much over-rated, but I do have to admit that I will not be able to hear that Jeeper-Creepers song without thinking of this film. Not sure whether that is a good or bad thing. "},{"Title":"over rated","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK now before I start my heavy criticism of this film, I'd just like to say how much I liked the simplistic concept and old skool style of it. Boy and girl, coming home through desolate lands, see big thing dressed in cloak dumping what looks like bodies down a chute, and, like fools, cant help themselves but take a closer look, classic stuff! It's a monster, blunt and simple, and everyone's s**t scared, good stuff. But it's in the execution of these ideas that lets it down. To start with, this film is generally not scary. It starts well with some good tension and unrest built up, making the viewer interested straight away. However, when you see the monster, it just lets the atmosphere down tremendously, it looks plain awful really. There are stupid twists like the pyschic lady who tells them when you hear the jeepers creepers song, he'll be there! oooooh! It gets worse when the  thing grows wings! That's when it really lost its touch and any chance of any more scares.I wouldn't say this film is bad in terms of entertainment value, but it's just not scary at all, honestly! If you want genuine scares, I suggest what lies beneath, will make you jump like a monkey! But Jeepers creepers, is more like aunties bloomers. (Sorry if that pun is awful!) yeah, it is awful! But seriously, this film is HUGGGEEELY overated, so don't be expecting amazement!  "},{"Title":"big on potential . . . crap on delivery","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Film cannot survive on suspense alone! I went into this one with high hopes, but found my jaw on the floor repeatedly, astonished at the lack of explanation for so many facets of the story. I'm all about suspension of disbelief and not spoonfeeding your audience, but good gravy, they need something to work with!! Scary? . . . sure, at times. Tense? . . . absolutely. But, understandable? . . . I've never walked out of a theater more dissatisfied in my life. The opportunity to make something really scary that was more directly related to the 'eyes' theme was there, but ignored. Big huge stinker, and so bad I won't even consider giving its sequel a chance. Please don't support Jeepers Creepers by renting it . . .**POSSIBLE SPOILERS**. . . what kind of a monster is this guy? Where did he come from? Why does he change/evolve throughout the film? It was one of the most anti-climactic endings of a film I've ever seen . . . and again, with no explanation. AAAAGGGGHHHH!!  "},{"Title":"Very scary, but ends very stupid (but still worth it)","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first half of the movie is a gem- it thrills you and makes you laugh.  But when it starts to get cheesy, and you doubt if it's a good movie or not- remember how scared you WERE, and that the acting is well.  It's almost cheesy on purpose, like it's trying to be funny or become a campy cult classic.  Oh well. B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"What a *^*#¤% was that?!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't belive this, I was soooo looking forward to see this movie, and what happend?! The movie sucked, that's what happend!! Agree with everyone else, first 20 min. or so was very good but then, OH MY GOD!!! And what was up with the Creeper?! He looked like a reject from Buffy Vampire Slayer!!   What a piece of ........... "}{"Title":"Total Pants !!   *spoilers*","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  was this supposed to be a good film? nah it sucked big time. We spent half the film screaming at the tele in frustration, if that girl ground the gears one more time we would have personally finished her off ourselves. The Lad was completely gormless and we couldnt wait for him to die(shame the girl didn't)Complete waste of time and how it got a cinema release i dont know! and to top it off they are making a second one WHY??????? "},{"Title":"Killer opening...but thats it.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The opening of this movie set it up beautifully for a great horror flick to come, however after the first 20 minutes or so the movie takes a nose dive for terrible...the only thing saving this movie remotely enough to pull it back up to a 6/10 is the ending. Unless you are a HARDCORE horror fan (this is not exactly a scary movie might I warn you...) I'd suggest avoiding this film at all costs.Of course, a sequel is in the works... "},{"Title":"A Must-Miss Movie","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has two things going against it. 1. It was written and directed by Victor Silva, a convicted child molester that also directed Powder. He just disgusts me.2. No matter how good the acting, it's just putting lipstick on a pig. It SLOWLY builds to a climax that is such a predictable letdown that you may even miss it all together. The story had it's moments but it's not scary. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone just to make sure Silva has a hard time making movies. "},{"Title":"A fetid waste of celluloid!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Packed with all of the typical cliches, you find yourself screaming at the film for the protagonists to actually do something whilst the baddie cuisinarts his victims... but do they say something, do they do something, do they scream and run away....or do they just stare at the murder strangely take place as they look upon slack-jawed and glassy-eyed... Yep!I feel dumbr fer havin ceen the muvie alredey... 2 out of ten. *stinker* "},{"Title":"worst horror ever!!!!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Biggest waste of £3.75 at blockbusters ever.... What was the myth behind the creature, no one ever explained it, what was the deal with that mad old woman, was she even necessary to the plot.If you have 2 hours to waste don't waste it watching this, not even for free... instead have a nap it will be more rewarding. "},{"Title":"Very Scary...Boo...","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is great, all-American spooky fun!  The story line was terrific, and the casting was perfect.  There's nothing like a good horror flick, an icy cold soft drink and a great big bowl of popcorn.  Jeepers Creepers definitely provides the horror.  But, you'll have to make your own popcorn and supply your own soda-pop.  Now, I have to go find my night light. "},{"Title":"A movie that would have worked were it made 15 years ago.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers has a slight 80-ish monster movie feel to it.  I can say though it was a nice change from the usual slasher movies that we get today for horror.  On the other hand through the entire movie I had this gut feeling to laugh because the storyline is ridiculous in ways.  At times I felt like this should be a movie for MST3K instead.  The good thing is it's sort of scary mainly because of that creepy song though.  The bad thing is that the movie really drags and we don't really see any action until the last 30 minutes.  This movie was a little late in time or had too big of a budget.  There are two ways this movie would have made up for all that it lacks and that is if it had been a B-Movie instead or it was made in the 80s but neither of those applies so there is no excuse for the cheesiness we get from the entire movie.  And why on earth they would even think about making a sequel I don't know... "},{"Title":"Not a work of art... but entertaining","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had no expectations prior to seeing Jeepers Creepers, as no one I knew had seen it before. I watched it with my brother, and at the conclusion we both agreed, this was not a great movie - but it was quite entertaining with one major proviso...don't take the plot too seriously. Let's face it, in most of these sort of horror films, the main characters seem to be so incredibly stupid, it should come as no surprise to anyone that they react to situations in completely illogical and often suicidal ways. Ok, so no rational person would allow themselves to be dangled down a seriously dark and deep drainpipe because someone might need our help. A rational person would just find a nearby farm with a phone and call the cops. The makeup in this movie was a mixed bag. The Creep I thought was pretty well done - he looked downright nasty. The corpses we see close up looked more like wax dummies - not good! All in all though, the main factor in rating a movie for me is entertainment value, and I enjoyed the film, despite the plot holes. I recommend giving Jeepers Creepers a try. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was FANTASTIC! I had my hand over my mouth and often covering my eyes, all the way thourgh this! I will admit though, if you can sit down and watch the first 20 minutes of this without having to  turn it off, go outside and think happy happy thoughts then you are a brave person indeed!This movie had everything that i personally think takes to make a good movie, the acting was absoulty PERFECT! I loved the way these kids were doing their best and were actually able to look scared and not like they were just doing it for the sake of it, their own acting made me feel like i was more scared as well! The creeper itself was made perfectly as far as i am concerned, it was scary and also when we first see it, the scene where he's dumping bodies down the tube made me want to crawl back into bed with a very big flashlight! It was fanastic, you don't see much of the creeper but you don't have to in order to enjoy this movie. I think that it makes a break from the other fright movies of today as it actually tries is best to give u a good storyline for once and not totally rely on its CGI for people to enjoy it, it was old fashioned and brilliant as a result of it!See this movie and LOVE IT!! I did! "},{"Title":"A FEW GOOD SCARES BUT DISTASTEFULLY GROTESQUE","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Scary is scary, but gross is not scary, just grotesque, if you follow my meaning. There's always a thin line, when it comes to creating a horror flick. JEEPERS CREEPERS crosses that line more than a few times, to its own detriment.There are some genuinely very tense moments, where the scare factor is great. This film does deliver there, but everything else runs typical of a movie of this genre. The character development is barely past the Hi, good to know ya stage. Why on earth the killer does what he does, was about as satisfactorily explained as it's relationship to the old, popular song from where this movie gets its title. Basically nada, zip, zilch...but it is a cool title, nonetheless. If you like your scares on the gross side, and aren't too picky on details or motivations, then this movie might hit your mark. Don't hold your breath too long in waiting for a sequel, as popular horror films are serious franchise potential. Recommended, but just barely and enough already.  "}{"Title":"Vomitous","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't ever see this film. I wish I hadn't. I can deal with losing £3.50 renting this, but the two hours of my life I can NEVER get back. I could have done the dishes, cleaned the windows, or vacuumed the house rather than watch this, and been far more entertained AND scared. Instead, all I feel down is a persistent disappointed malaise at being foolish enough to think that anything to do with Coppola's American Zoetrope may have been OK. I feel spent and used. "},{"Title":"Alright, who killed the horror genre?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Indeed this is a boring movie, the plot is rather weak as are the effects. In most bad horror movies you are able to laugh if not as you were intended to scream. This is not that kind of movie, dull and blunt. I must admit that they started well the first 15 minutes really had potential. No cliche gang of youngsters no lovers just a brother and his sister. But then it messes up. And, ick. Unlike Anaconda it's not something you need to watch just because its so horrible you are missing out on something...Just stay away from this... "},{"Title":"VICTOR SALVA IS OBVIOUSY A FAN OF SPIELBERGS DUEL!!!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Spielbergs Duel myself, so when i lay down to watch this in bed the other night, i recognised the influences straight away, deserted highway, scary truck that rams cars from behind & even the diner with a few blank faced looking locals, yep even some of the camera angles & shots were the same too!!! This film has great atomosphere right from the start & is set during daylight for the first 30 mins or so & is still damn scary!!! This film gripped me throughout, i do agree with some other people on here though that the second half is not quite as good as the first one!!! Watch out for the great Eileen Brennan who plays the cat lady, she gives the creeper a run for his money, for a few seconds at least!!! I bought this on dvd & it was one of the few occasions where i actually wanted to view all the extras, commentary by Victor salva & deleted scenes, original ending & a 60 minute in depth behind the scenes documentary, which is also 16x9 anamorphically enhanced, there's a great bit on how they lit up the highway with loads of high powered lights, which they reffered to as moons!!! If you like Duel & your a Horror fan too, check this one out!!! "},{"Title":"Scary for awhile","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First half is scary. Serial killer that looks like nothing so much as a walking scarecrow. Driving a really nasty truck. Set against TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE-type bleak landscapes. Bodies in a well. Bodies in a cellar. Bodies everywhere. Second half a bit of a letdown. Now we're into BUFFY/X-FILES territory as the killer turns out to be something else entirely. Won't say what for those of you yet to see it. But just not scary, or I should say no longer scary. Standard monster flick at this point. Definitely worth a sequel, though. The sister is pretty plucky and sexy, molded directly upon FAITH's Eliza Dusku, and she ought to figure into any sequel. "},{"Title":"GOOD MOVIE WITH A CREEPY ENDING","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers was something fresh and different from the usual horror we've been watching over the years.For starters it is real creepy at times. The evil Creeper is unpredictable and unstoppable. This movie was a bit like The X-Files. No-one knew the origin or true identity of the Creeper or what his motives were. The only thing you could be sure of is that he would get you...no matter what!The ending was good too. I won't spoil it but it was extremely creepy and will probably give you nightmares.That's all I will say on this film. Jeepers Creepers is one of those films that can only be enjoyed if you have the bare minimum of plot information about it beforehand. "},{"Title":"Great beginning, worst ending I've ever seen...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film just came to theaters here in The Netherlands, and all the commercials said it was the #1 horror movie from America... Well, I've seen it, and it really wasn't that great... The first 45 minutes or so, are just great. Pretty scary, the entire audience screamed about 3 or 4 times. However, the second part of the film should be rated as a comedy. You actually get a good look at the bad guy and that is pretty disappointing. We should never have seen the bad guy, except from a distance as in the first part of the film. This is the same mistake that has been made in, amongst others, Stephen King's The Langoliers. It's a really scary movie, until you see those Langoliers. Then you start laughing. Same with Jeepers Creepers. At the end, the entire audience was laughing at what was supposed to be scary... My recommendation do not see in theaters, do not rent. Just wait until it is shown on tv... "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  WHY did the monster take the time to stitch up the bodies in the cellar? That makes no sense!  Neither does the fact that I sat through this movie. I've watched more enthralling and unpredictable infomercials.  It saddens me that Eileen Brennan's career has sunk so low as to accept such a mediocre role in and even more mediocre movie. Mulan was scarier. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I took the advice of the guy working in the video department, that this was a good movie.  Half way through it I was asking myself if maybe I heard him wrong.Not only is this not a good movie, it barely qualifies as a horror film.  It should be reclassified as a comedy.  The acting was was bad, and the storyline has been overdone.  Can the writers not come up with a new idea for a horror film.  This had Freddy and Jason written all over it and it still managed to incorporate ever cliche' from the more current horror films.  They even managed to try to use a scene similar to The Matrix.Don't waste your time or money on this one.  Try Thirteen Ghosts or Final Destination if you want to make the hairs on your neck stand up but don't bother with this film. "},{"Title":"The worst horror of the last 10 years","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In my country the advertisment is 'The best horror of the last 10 years'. I don't know which movie they where reviewing, but it couldn't be jeepers creepers.. ok I have to admit it starts nice, but after an half hour is becomes the worst horror ever... You get to see the 'monster' completly, and the moment you do the movie sucks beyond believe... The ending is also so lame and stupid, it really sucks... It could have been a good movie, but the made some big mistakes...I really don't understand how people can find this movie scary and the best horror of the last 10 years..My advice... stay the hell away from this movie.. and go rent BrainDead. "},{"Title":"Cheaper crispies","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many typical horror-movie views, in the beginning a typical scare about something you don't know. Since you know what it is, it's more funny than scary. Scream + Evil Dead - mix it up - take the good parts out and you have - Jeepers Creepers.I doesn't entertain me really. 1/10 "}{"Title":"Do not waste your time with this movie!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is probably the worst terror movie of the year, in fact it is more than that , it is stupid , my six year sister would came up with more interesting story.The movie has so many loose ends that I wouldnt waste my time writing about it.The only reason I am putting this comment is to help someone to not choose this movie.Please , dont see it. It sucks. "},{"Title":"Expected more of Francis Ford Coppola....","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For the first maybe 3/4 hour I was riveted.  The tension created by the continuity of action (two kids, car, empty highway, nowt else) ensured some scares, and resulted in me watching through the knitwork of my sweater. The single narrative and the slow pace worked really well to create a creepy atmosphere.It all started going a bit downhill after the diner scene.The sudden jump from all out tension and suspense to indulgent grossness didnt sit well with me at all. It was poorly explained - more down to editing that a bad scriptwriter methinks.  The crazy Jamaican woman came across as a hasty addition to tie up the plot so they could get the movie finished.  It became an embarassing one trick pony...playing on the song of the title to ridiculous degrees, and left me feeling that it could have been a much much better movie had the plot turned a different way.  For a film from the stable of the great Ford Coppola I expected a lot more.  "},{"Title":"I'm sure this has a plot, i just don't know where","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is by far and away the WORST film that I have seen. Ever. and I saw 'What Lies beneath' (Another poor film, but it was better than this).The problem with this film, lies with the fact it starts so well, the Truck is done well, what they see...the questions rasied ' Who? Why? How? Then they just don't answer the questions.What it is, is just pointless. We never get to know WHY he is there (kinda importnat in films). the fact he has been doing this for how long? and no one has ever noticed? What Happened to the ring they picked up?And why-oh-why are they just so dammed stupid as to stay and gawk whilst people die, when most people would have jumped in the car and run for their lives, i'll never know.And it gets worse. But you want to know the worst thing about this movie? They left the ending ready for a sequel...They called it the scarist movie in 10 years? What did they live under a rock for 10 years? I've looked in the mirror after a hang over and seen scarier things than that film had to offer.My advice watch the first 40 minutes then leave it'll be worth it, trust me. "},{"Title":"Argh! (semi-spoiler)","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My eyes! Jeez, by the end of this I was wishing someone would do me a favour and eat mine. It's like the makers of this movie wrote down all the cliches they could and picked a few out a hat. I agree with many of the comments already left - the film starts fairly well, but then goes downhill like a jet-powered soapbox racer. It leaves a lot of questions unanswered - which bothered me for all of two seconds before I realised I had been given no reason to ask them. No reason to want to know more, no reason to give a monkeys for any of the characters. The purpose of this film was to scare me and it failed miserably. Everything this film does has been done before, and better. I've been more frightened of the bad guys on Scooby Doo than of Mr Plastic Fantastic Wings. The only thing that made me recoil in terror was the thought there might actually be people as two-dimensional and stupid as the characters in this film. 1/10, because at least the actors tried - unlike the writers! "},{"Title":"Worst horror film of the last ten years!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I would say spoiler-alert, but there's nothing to spoil here.The story is just stupid (there are so many plot holes), it's not at all original (see the early X-Files episodes with the Tooms character) or scary (apart from maybe in the first twenty minutes in the House of Pain) and the end was the biggest let down since ... you fill in this gap with something especially disappointing you've experienced recently.  I must admit, I was a little bored with the Sixth Sense near the end and I forgave the entire film (and gave it 9) after the revelation, so I didn't want to write off Jeepers Crappers until it finished, and was actually expecting a really good ending, since FFC was involved.  Needless to say, I was very shocked when the creature just b**gered off with Darry and the film's pace dropped like something very heavy and then ended about five minutes later.I don't know why Coppola admitted to being involved in this pile of steaming cow dung.  I thought Scary Movie 2 was bad, but it definitely bettered this one.  Anyone who can't see The Blair Witch Project is infinitely superior to this rubbish needs their lungs and eyes removed.Do not see this!  It does not even have so-bad-it's-good value (e.g. Batman and Robin).  1/10. "},{"Title":"Scariest US horror film for 20 years - NOT","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is no use beating about the bush, this film is truly terrible and the only positive note I could find from it was in the decorative manner the evil one displayed his victims bodies on the ceiling of his hideaway. The acting isn't necessarily poor but you feel no sympathy for the actors and have no time for their worries or concerns. In true time-honoured horror tradition they spy someone nasty doing something dodgy and decide, against, better wisdom, to investigate, but who cares. They get into a couple of scrapes, think they've killed him, only for him to comically limp across the car park in pursuit. The audience were laughing - this is supposed to be horror, not the spoof of Scream!! When the true evil, behind the scarecrow is revealed you know that someone in the special effects department was feeling lazy because the demon they created is more like a kids incantation. I can do nothing further than warn you to miss this film entirely. "},{"Title":"Never saw it coming!!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie, primarily because the friend that I was with had seen everything else.  I am SO glad that he's such a movie geek!!! Jeepers Creepers was fantastic!!I love movies, but most of all I love creepy, thrillers.  Unfortunately most of the time I have to be satisfied with brief moments of suspense, because quality thrillers are so rare.  This movie had me on the edge of my seat for the first 45 minutes, and highly interested for the other 45.  I haven't felt such tention in a theater since the first time that I saw the Blair Witch Project.  JC gave me the type of fear that I haven't felt since I was a child watching American Werewolf in London.  And I can't believe that it came from Jeepers Creepers!!!Jeepers Creepers is basically the story of 2 siblings traveling home from school for the holiday.  Of course they decide to take the long way home, on the mostly deserted highway.  Unfortunately for them it's not completely deserted.  They meet up with a freak show villain, and spend the next hour and a half (movie time)running for their lives.First of all, this movie was great because it involved a brother/sister team.  No love interest, no sexual tension, but rather a brother and sister fighting for one another.  Gina Philips and Justin Long(from tv's Ed) play Trish and Darry, sister and brother in big, BIG trouble.  It was a really nice change from what we always see.Secondly, I was thrilled because the writer/director (Victor Salva) understands that sometimes what we don't see is scarier than what we do. For the first 45 minutes when the tention was strongest, we don't quite see into the villain's truck, or he's just a little too far away to see clearly. We are scared by our own imaginations, and by the horrific sounds created by the creeper's truck.  That was when this movie was at its best.Unfortunately about half way through this movie, good ol' Victor seemed to forget this philosophy, and the energy diminishes as we see and understand more and more of the villain.  Too bad, this movie could have been amazing.I admit that there are holes in this movie, like what's with the 23rd days and the 23rd years, but ultimately the holes don't matter.  This is the type of movie that you see for atmosphere and tention, not plot and cohesiveness. Because of that, this movie was fantastic..It was way more than I was expecting.  I thought that the central characters were just fine, and the direction was great.  He used sounds and unknowns, rather than special effects and explosions.  Nicely done, I just wish he'd been reminded about half way through to stay with it.  He was on his was to creating a horror classic!!Oh well, it was 45 minutes of more fear than I have experienced in a long, long, time.  Another 45 minutes of solid entertainment, and an ending that had the nerve to stay true to the rest of the film.  I was really good, and I never saw THAT coming!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely incredible.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is another shot to the dome of Hollywood, another good horror movie to watch this summer. This...this is what the real horror fans have been waiting for.Forget your beautiful people lining up on the movie poster. Forget people having sex and getting killed. Forget your newfound horror conventions and think back to something pure, raw, and simple two people see something they aren't supposed to see, and now they have to pay for it.This movie is genuinely disturbing for the first half hour and even offers some good scares up until the unsettling climax. A lot of the comments here are complaining about what a horrid ending this movie has, and I really have to disagree. They hate it because the ending is NOT neat and tidy, it is NOT what they expected, but it is DEFINITELY clean cut and leaves no margin of error. You KNOW what happened. I walked out of the theatre stunned.It's better you know as little as possible about this movie when you see it. Don't have the highest expectations, but if you have an open mind and a keen love of horror, this will definitely slake your thirst for a good horror movie, signaling the end of Hollywood's drought of ideas. No more Valentine, no more Soul Survivors, no more Final Destination, no more Scream, no more I Know Who You Shagged Last Summer...this is how horror movies are done.An excellent cry to the halcyon days of horror. Strongly recommended for anyone with a strong stomach and an open mind. "},{"Title":"Not since Phantoms has there been something this refreshing,","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just saw this film and I have to say that I found it not only scary and entertaining, but refreshing as well.  It would seem that the explosion of mindless teenie horror clones has taken a turn to something a bit more creative.  The story is simple and the characters are believable.  This film is NOT about 6 upper class white kids and an obligatory rich black friend (thrown in for ethnic equality purposes)running around trying to escape a psychopathic serial killer in a rich suburb of some picturesque little town. Rather, this film is simple and to the point.  Two college students stumble upon a monster created out of pure evil from some dark place in time... and spend the duration of the film trying to figure out what this thing is and why it wants to kill them.  I thought this film seemed very believable. The characters behave in much the same way you might in a similar (although unlikely) situation.  I had the feeling that there was a good deal of footage cut from the film as is evidenced by a lack of closure and some unanswered questions regarding character development.  My advice is to check this one out.  It looks like a sleeper hit to me.  And trust me, this Creeper is a bad mamma jamma. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly impressive!!!","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well I've always considered myself to be a devout Horror fan, so lately I've decided to catch up to some of the classics that I've never had the chance to watch. I've heard much about Jeepers Creepers, but have never seen it, even though it's been aired on Israeli TV stations many times, especially as part of Halloween specials.I must say, I've been much more impressed than I thought I'd be with a Supernatural/Slasher sub-genre flick. The characters are as original as you'll ever see in this sub-genre (you must have seen dozens of films with a group of friends going on vacation, how many have you seen where the protagonists are a brother and a sister?) The script is also great, perfectly portraying the sibling rivalry while still caring for each other. The other characters are less impressive (i.e the police officers), except for Patricia Belcher whom I personally really liked here. As for the acting, other than Justin Long's occasional facial expression glitch, it is more than adequate.The idea behind the monster is also great and very original! But the monster itself... I don't know if it's the budget, the early years or lack of creativity in the makeup dept. but the monster simply isn't scary. Besides, the moment the monster is revealed, the film changes from being a delicate The Hitcher/Joyride combination to a failed attempt to combine Freddie and Jason. I know I probably use the phrases unfulfilled potential and anticlimactic way too often in my reviews of Horror films, maybe I'm being too harsh... but that's exactly how I feel in regards to Jeepers Creepers.The ending, however, is another very pleasant surprise. No surprising twists (always a let down for me, I love twists) but nothing corny or overdone, just a strong scene to end a strong film. And less I forget - what a great soundtrack! Not often do you see such an ironic use of 60's classics.All in all - I'm very pleasantly surprised and would recommend this film to any Horror fan "}{"Title":"A movie for 8 year olds","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK I'll get straight to the point here. This is a terrible terrible movie. Anyone who has given this more than 2 stars probably thinks Scream is scary It starts off bad, then goes rapidly downhill. The dialogue and storyline are taken from the Horror By Numbers book and just leave you cringing.So a brother and sister see a body getting thrown down a hole and because they are seen witnessing this, they get run off a road by something in a truck. Whats the only sensible option? Thats right, lets go back to look down the hole. Ludicrous. I have seen someone say that if it wasn't for them doing stupid stuff then there wouldn't be a movie..er no, they do stupid stuff because the film is poorly written and has a God-awful storyline.So, back at the hole, down which they can see nothing, the brother (I have no idea what their names are as its impossible to care)gets his sister to hold on to his feet, whilst he sticks his head down. Bearing in mind this hole/shaft is fairly long so sticking your head in will make absolutely no difference. Even Stevie Wonder can see what is going to happen next. Procedures ensue and she (shock,horror) lets go of him and he drops down the hole. Good grief. Not much happens, he tells her to get help but watch out for the truck. Bizarrely, instead of actually getting help, she stands next to their car, hoping that someone will pass. Hmm, isn't it more than likely that if the guy comes back, she's history and he's stuck down a hole? There hasn't been one original thought gone into this movie, and I've no idea how I managed to sit through 57 minutes of it before turning it off at the point where some man appeared to grow wings whilst lying face down on the road for no apparent reason.Just dreadful "},{"Title":"He's Coming To Get You!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" JEEPERS CREEPERS is a very scary movie and I feel sorry for you if you are under the age of eighteen and has seen this. Very sorry, I might as well give you a kiss on the cheek and tuck you in and read you a bedtime story.Anyways, I saw this movie a few months ago because I have never seen this movie before and I wanted to watch it. Since I've always seen the second one and never knew what the first one was like. At first, the movie seemed as if it was made in the 80s or 90s, but now that I look at it, it was made in 2001 and the 80s had no good enough technology to make a movie as wonderful as this.I love how the brother and sister stood together and in the end how the sister wanted the monster to take her, not her brother. That seemed a little much better for the movie..I recommend this movie for all horror fans. Yes, even under the age of eighteen and under the age of fifteen seconds. (Not really) "},{"Title":"Blob","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a collection of clichés, shamelessly stitched together (no pun intended) to form an unorthodox horror movie. Everything you ever saw in every horror movie you will see in Jeepers Creepers. But, here's the catch It works. I don't know if it's the characters, the setting, the dialog or maybe even directing that saved this movie but something did. The first half-hour is nothing short of scary but it slows down at about the last half-hour.The movie is about a brother and sister driving home for spring-brake. On the road a creepy old van nearly kills them, but they survive, later on they see the van, and whoever was in it standing by an old church. He's dumping something wrapped, roped in a sheet with red stains on it down a pipe. While doing so he spots the children and chases them. This leading to several scary moments.The most annoying thing about this movie was definitely Jezelle Gay Heartman, a person that lives in the town that the kids end up in. She is quite possibly the most annoying person ever to ruin a picture. She knew all along what was happening but still felt the need to speak in riddles. Very annoying. Anyway, my point is, even though Jeepers hit a few wrong notes, it still makes one of my favorite horrors ever.But i've seen it so often now it can't scare me anymore and i call it fluff something to keep my peepers busy. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Jeepers Creepers (2001)","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've heard much hype about this horror film, and decided to take a look into it. It delivered some thrills, but nothing fantastic to rave about.Starring Justin Long and Gina Philips as siblings on a road trip home, perhaps it is the relationship between the two which is refreshing, yet tinged with a sense of familiarity. Instead of the usual boy-girl romantic relationships which are staples of horror movies, sibling rivalry gets the nod, which to an audience, is something easier to identify with.The main baddie is the unexplained - a mysterious man riding in a beat up armoured truck whom the siblings see dumping wrapped bodies in a church. Against his sister's advice, Darry decides to investigate, and hence they become the latest prey of the creature. We do not know anything more about it, only that it rises every 23 years, for 23 days to feed, to take something from his prey, and doing so by inflicting fear, and smelling.The creature makeup is interesting, like a cross between a mer-man and a vampire bat, but you don't get to see it in its full glory until the end. And the end to some, might be a disappointment, as it still left things unexplained. Maybe that's the appeal, that you're free to interpret. There should be a lot of gore in this movie, but I suspect the Code 3 edition has pared it down quite a bit.In short, this movie is one extended country road trip, with some mysterious elements and motivations added. Nothing too fancy, nothing too horrific. And yes, it did spawn a sequel.Code 3 Extras Trailers, Cast and Crew Interviews. "},{"Title":"Lovecraftian","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you were a fan of H.P. Lovecraft, this movie tries to follow in his footsteps and you can see how.It starts with what is a seemly perfectly logical (if majorly psychotic) crime, and progresses towards a supernatural monster which is of unknown and incomprehensible origin. The refusal to actually fully show the monster until the last few scenes of the movie is dead on Lovecraft.However, the archetypal 'mad seer' of Lovecraftian style is put into the story in an improper manner. She is given enough time in the plot and enough evidence is shown on screen that she acquires credibility to early in the movie. If this were a story by Lovecraft, we would not realize that the seer is sane, would think her a mad old woman until the last scene. Then, had Lovecraft told the story, suddenly seeing the monster would have made the seer crazy, made all of the pieces come together, and forcing you to realize that the horrible supernatural is the only remaining logical conclusion. Instead, the movie gives little by little credibility to each part of the insanity along the way, denying the final shock that could have accompanied finally seeing the monster in all it's otherworldly glory.That being said, it is a decent horror movie, and had it's fair share of surprises. I was expecting the standard corpse in the bag in the beginning of the movie, and was pleasantly (and horribly) surprised. "},{"Title":"good 1st half","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film has one of the most scary, tense and nail biting first halves in horror.Two teenagers see a figure dump what looks like a body down a pipe by a church at the side of the road and go back to investigate. It gets VERY tense when the boy falls down the hole, gets horrific when he finds a still alive mutilated victim and builds really well from there with them being pursued by this mysterious figure. Unfortunately once the monster is revealed as the usual 'Demon'it goes downhill fast into the usual kids and cannon fodder extras vs invincible Demon/monster standard fare. It goes further downhill with the introduction of the stereotypical 'psychic' figure, which may have been an effective way of increasing the tension if she'd appeared before it all kicked off, but doesn't really add much suspense when all hell has already broken loose.Watch it for the 1st half which is great, but shame they couldn't finish the job or we'd be talking about a classic. "},{"Title":"Good Horror Film, but with room for improvement","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although I really liked this film, I was a bit disappointed when in the film you actually see what the creature looks like.Whilst watching Jeepers Creepers for the first time I thought it was a really scary movie(which is different as most horror around aren't actually scary) until when in the film you get to see what the creature that has been chasing down the two main characters really looks like, after that I thought it was still a really good film but it wasn't really scary anymore but still entertaining.Overall I would recommend this film to all horror fans.I have to say you didn't see the creature throughout the film I might have been able to give this film at least 9/10, but unfortunately due to the decline of the second half of the film its 7/10 from me.Although I did really like the end of the movie, there's not many films that don't have a good ending. "},{"Title":"the most stupid horror movie","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i believe this is the most stupid horror movie i ever seen. and that's why. first of all the story in this film is so poor.you see the film and you never learn who is this creature from where did he came except that he eats people.can you image most stupid story. and the second.when the movie ends you cannot realize the idea the author was trying to give you.which is that idea.maybe that you cannot escape from that creature.how genious. i think is not worth to spend your time by watching a movie without a story. and is not worth to watch a movie that has nothing to tell about.so my conclusion is that this movie is an awful movie that has nothing good and most of all tells you nothing "},{"Title":"You'll beg for the protagonists to die quickly","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although technically adept , this film is incredibly annoying and cliché. The protagonists actions are predictably stupid and lame. When faced with imminent death by some sort of supernatural serial killer, instead of getting the hell out of Dodge, they take _forever_ to get away. We are an hour into the movie before they even get to a police station, and when they do, it's the worlds worst lit police station, complete with 5 watt emergency lighting.The appearance of the ridiculous psychic character just adds to the farce. The combination of poor writing and poor acting ruins any enjoyment I would have gotten from this film. It's a shame they had to waste $10m on such a poor script. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a film unto itself. The general complaints I hear about it is that most fans just liked the first half and the second half sucks. THen others are upset about how the movie ended. Most, though, fail to recognize why this movie is one of the most brilliant horror films of all time.Jeepers Creepers leads you down the wrong path. IN the beginning, they play it off as if the killer was human. He is just a scary, Candyman looking guy. For about the first 45 minutes, the creep factor is at a high. And then, we see the Creeper do some supernatural things; IE, riding on the roof of a car, jumping high et al. This is where most viewers stopped enjoying the film. Then, our heroes are stalked by an unkillable beast, which defies any explanation. All we know is that it can't be stopped and that it eats humans.I won't say anything about the ending, but I know that was the major reason the movie is not liked. Even I walked out of the theater, rather upset and hating the movie. I didn't watch it again until a year later, and it was mainly because I loved the cinematography.It was upon the second viewing that I realized what a brilliant film this is. It does everything that a horror movie is supposed to do. It takes twists that you don't expect. You have no idea how it's going to end. It leads you down certain paths, and then makes you realize you've walked down the wrong path.If you have only seen the film once and you hate it, I encourage you to see it again. I hated it originally, but now it's a 10 start film in my mind. One of the all time masterpieces of horror, it stands up to Psycho, Halloween, Exorcist and every other classic horror film ever made. "}{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie around Halloween and since then have been in love with it. If you haven't seen it I highly suggest that you do, it isn't very scary but it is good and funny.In this movie you have a brother and sister driving home from college, at first everything seems normal until they almost get run of the road by somebody driving a big ugly truck, they keep driving until they see the same truck at this church with this guy throwing something wrapped in a sheet down a pipe, the brother (Justin Long who plays Darry) goes looking down the pipe and falls down,sees bodies etc. Then in the end Darry dies (... but still an excellent movie 20 out of 10 "},{"Title":"AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL.. .","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is SOOOO terrible! It's so stupid! I hated the actors, I hated the decor, I hated the story which didn't have sens, and most of all, I HATED the Creeper. It's so disgusting! This movie isn't for teenagers, it's for mental sick people! The end is so...(I'm looking for words)horrible and disgusting! Lucky I didn't watch it in cinemas, but on TV at home! It was 11 o'clock in the evening. After it, I couldn't take dinner, and I couldn't sleep, 2! The end was staying in my mind... I don't understand how can people make this kind of movies? About the song... no comment... "},{"Title":"best US horror film in 10 years?!?!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Initially i tried to stop myself laughing at the supposedly scary moments in this movie so as not to ruin it for other people in the cinema, but soon enough the whole audience was in peals of laughter. This film had an average beginning, nothing original though, and went downhill steadily from there. The acting was ok given what they had to work with, but the plot was largely unoriginal, and the special effects looked bad - i have no complaints about cheap special effects, Sam Raimi showed us that brilliantly entertaining effects can be achieved on a budget considerably lower than this film's was in The Evil Dead, but this movie's looked like theyd cost a fair bit and just come off wrong. The bottom line is, you should not make your audience laugh at your monster in a horror movie. The best way to make a monster scary is to show it as infrequently as possible, and rely upon the audience's imagination. Having seen the 'creeper' run over by a car repeatedly, then stand up and walk around with an amusing limp and comically squashed limbs, there was no way he was going to scare me. overall, A huge disappointment, especially given the claims that it was 'the best US horror film in 10 years' on the advert! "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This dreadful piece starts out well but goes downhill halfway through, after the scene where the heroes run over the villain several times. Then it becomes one of the worst films of 2001. It's not often the villain wins at the end of the film, but this is not a good thing. Other than hitting the villain with a car (which the villain shrugs off easily), the villain suffers no damage from the heroes. This film has no purpose other than taking our money. "},{"Title":"starts off effectively, but spirals into silliness...","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For the first hour of Jeepers Creepers, I was in relative agreement with Clive Barker's box-art blurb maybe not the most scary, stylish horror film in years, but an effective effort nonetheless. As the plot follows a brother and sister traveling home for spring break, only to be menaced by a long-coated figure in a menacing, loud truck, writer-director Victor Salva creates brooding suspense and mystery, while keeping his villain obscured. With a decent pace and often unbearable tension, Jeepers Creepers has a lot going for it, and is quite reminiscent of a 1950s horror film...until about minute 60, when 'The Creeper' makes his grand appearance, and a motive is attached to his madness. Turns out this dark, towering menace likes to swallow up body parts that proceed to give him the capability of said parts. To paraphrase Crow T. Robot Backstory by Mrs. Johnson's kindergarten class! By the time the effects-laden second half begins, the film has succumbed to shock, stupidity, and outright silliness--an unforgivable betrayal of what started off so promisingly. Though, considering Salva's unbalanced filmography (including the Albino-outcast tale Powder and the tepid psychothriller Nature of the Beast), it shouldn't come as too big of a surprise that the premise of Jeepers Creepers slips out from underneath him. Too bad. "},{"Title":"A bad attempt to create another franchise movie monster.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers (2001) was a bad movie with severe homo erotic overtones and too much borrowing from better films. This movie made convicted child molester turned Hollywood wunderkind Victor Salva into one of the studio's darlings. The success of this film gave him the opportunity to try and franchise the film and create a new movie monster (The Creeper).The movie has a lot of flaws. First one is that you can't force an lame and uncool character become another Freddy Krueger. Second, the storyline was weak and so were the actors. Third and final reason, trying too hard can ruin a movie. This is a major reason why horror movies these days blow chunks. I can't factor in how many times film makers take a good concept and destroy the film by trying to hard.I have to not recommend this movie. So what if it only cost a few million dollars to make. You can go to your local video chain rental store and find even cheaper productions with more entertainment value. Followed by a slightly more entertaining bigger budgeted sequel . "},{"Title":"Better than expected, sort of fun if you're in the mood -- although it runs out of steam after the mid-point...","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think the purpose of most horror films is to create a sturdy mythology. That is, perhaps, the biggest reason for the amount of sequels some franchises collect &#150; along with cash incentive on behalf of the studios. Obviously.We like to revisit old characters and see them time and again. In most cases we grow weary of the retreads of the formula. But for example, each Halloween sequel &#150; no matter how poor &#150; presented more information to add to the archive. Although many 'regular' cinema-goers such as myself loathe these unnecessary sequels, there is a reason the fans love them &#150; they add to the story. Sort of like the mythology surrounding J.R.R. Tolkien's Middlearth, horror films &#150; because they are so cheap to produce and easy to market &#150; provide filmmakers with an excellent way of continuing a basic story and adding more onto it, in terms of revelations, backdrops, stories, characters, and legends.Any film of the genre that manages to do this, I think, has succeeded far more than some others might. The Blair Witch project is a good example. One movie that immediately set up a detailed backdrop that has led to much speculation, an ill-fated sequel and other installments rumored to be in the conception phase.Jeepers Creepers is sort of unique for one reason alone It sets up a pretty solid mythology within the first hour of its running time. Not many horror films are that fortunate. Apart from Halloween and A Nightmare on Elm Street, few get away with &#150; more or less &#150; manipulating the audience into learning a new slice of fictional history. We become familiar with the story, the characters, their backgrounds, and more importantly, the continual mythology of the bad guy.Many horror films try to do this, but without intriguing bad guys, it seems kind of pointless. (Phantasm is a good case of a never-ending series that needed no more than one entry.) On the Freddy vs. Jason DVD commentary, Robert Englund claims that most fans tell him that their favorite film is the sixth in the series, in which Freddy tries to kill his daughter. By glancing at IMDb.com's average user rating, it is clear that most people, in fact, hate this movie (with a score of about 4.6/10). What is Englund's explanation for the fan interest? 'It added a lot to the mythology of Freddy Krueger.' Bingo.And Jeepers Creepers is the sort of movie that will no doubt launch a lot of sequels. It's no classic, like Halloween, but I found myself surprised by the entertainment value of it all. Sort of spooky, sort of fun, sort of tongue-in-cheek &#150; and sort of a new guilty pleasure to add to a list of many.Unfortunately in its final act, after a successful build-up, it all kind of goes downhill.But prior to the disappointing climax, director-writer Victor Salva (yes, that Victor Salva) has done a good job of creating a horror film that is entertaining, thought-provoking, and often pretty scary. For half its running time, Jeepers Creepers is a truly refreshing horror film &#150; a take-no-prisoners, all-out-blast, with all the necessary elements Stupid characters who do stupid things, a mysterious baddie, and a whole lot of dead bodies.Once Jeepers Creepers -- the cannibalistic demon -- shows up on-screen, however, it just ruins all hope of a mysterious horror-thriller and turns into a gory exploitation flick. I can only imagine that this would have been a splendid horror film had the Creeper never been revealed to the audience &#150; or, at least not quite so stupidly. Appearing like a mix between the Moth Man and a Power Rangers villain, the Creeper isn't very scary at all. And although we are led to believe that he can fly faster than any human can walk, he can never seem to catch up with a pair of kids whose car is constantly breaking down and who have a penchant for sitting around watching people die instead of running the heck out of the area. Of course if they constantly ran away, we wouldn't get to see blood and guts, would we?I did learn a number of things while watching this, including&#133;1. Any time you hear the song Jeepers Creepers, it means something bad is about to happen, i.e. a man-eating beast is about to devour you or someone very near you. I guess the reason there aren't many mysterious-monster-deaths reported is because no one I've ever met actually likes that song, and I'm sure only those stuck helplessly in elevators would subject themselves to it unknowingly. 2. Some movie characters can be really stupid. When the Creeper runs a brother-sister couple in their 20s off the road during a trip to their parents' house, instead of continuing onwards, and calling the police for help, they decide to travel backwards and find out what the Creeper has been dumping in an old drainage sewer they passed by miles before. And then they decide to do some more thorough investigation, one of them falls down the drain, stumbles upon a 'house of pain,' etc.Earlier in this review I wrote that the ending was a disappointment. I guess I sorta lied. Truth be told, the grand finale &#150; featuring a showdown between the Creeper and a police squad and a brother and sister &#150; is so stupendously stupid I began to gave up hope. But the very, very end is the sort of disturbing, refreshingly unique and thought provoking ending that horror films rarely feature nowadays. Jeepers Creepers has its flaws but, despite a few stupid moments, it's also quite fun, and after the credits finished rolling I was still pondering the ending, which accounts for something. I guess.  "},{"Title":"I never Know what to put here??","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have read the last ten reviews of this film and I think there is one or two that said it was good and/or worth watching.  I can agree with what basically everyone else is saying. It starts off well, but quickly enters the laughing at the film genre rather than the laughing with the film and being genuinely scared genre...leaves a lot to be desired.A couple of niggles to give you an idea. The truck hits the back of the car ( serious damage you might think) - cut to the camera shot showing the car from behind swerving all over the road - Look! the car is un damaged and repeat three times...( I mean the film then shows exactly the same footage of truck hitting rear of car and then rear of car swerving - undamaged )  car subsequently smashes through a farm fence and into a field, resultant damage to car, is one broken headlamp lense.Then from the field they decide to go back to the church.  The sun is starting to set in the sky... they arrive at the church five minutes later in the middle of the afternoon with the sun high in the sky!As for a lot of people saying it has a good ending, well I'm sorry I must have missed it, for me it was quite predictable and hardly inspiring.  What's this about it being the scariest movie in ten years?(on the trailer) and the name dropping of Francis Ford Coppola, he was only an executive producer - which means he got paid a lot of money just so they could put his name in the titles and use his name in the trailer.2/10  "},{"Title":"dumb stupid lame corny laughable","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  all those words fit this film okay yes it does have on suspenseful scene the truck chasing scene but that is all this piece of garbage has going for it dumb script no gore very little suspense poorly made and shoddy direction are the films lowlights and a inane ending avoid! BOMB out of 5 "},{"Title":"My Personal Bottom 100","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It has been years since I saw this movie, but I was recently coaxed into watching a bootlegged copy of the sequel with a couple of friends and I felt it was my civic duty to report back on this thing.Jeepers Creepers sucks so much they could put a bag underneath it and sell it as a Hoover. I should have known this movie was going to suck when the opening credits rolled on for what felt like a good 10 minutes...that car just keeps driving and driving and driving....and for some reason whenever these two kids feel like investigating a dark lurid place they turn the car off, and sure enough every time bat-boy comes flying out TA-DA! The car won't start. Every Single Time.In all honesty I only have myself to blame, I mean despite the fact that this movie is titled Jeepers Creepers, which should be adequate warning for a crappy movie to begin with, I still went. The acting is horrid, the directing is horrid, the script is horrid, the soundtrack is horrid, basically the only thing not horrid was the bat-boy super killer thing; it looked like a pile of dead leaves in a trench coat.If you truly have an unquenchable desire to see a movie which contains the words jeepers and creepers in the title, skip this and jump straight to the sequel. It has mildly attractive women in it. "}{"Title":"Jeepers, This is Stupid.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers (2001) Dir Victor Salva / Cast Justin Long, Gina Philips, Eileen Brennan, Jonathan Breck, Patricia Belcher Nasty little number that refers to a song that plays every time this creature strikes. What it has to do with anything isn't explained. College sibling drive home on a desert highway and believe they witness sheet covered bodies being disposed of down a pipe at a Church. Now they ask the stupid question regarding going back and checking it out. Viewers are likely in favour of driving onward and perhaps reporting the incident but these two morons turn around and investigate leading to a lame sequence where the male slides down the pipe and discovers horrible things. Eventually they discover that the villain is actually a creature with huge bat wings. Director Victor Salva establishes the setup then it falls apart with a despicable ending. Among the cast are Justin Long and Gina Philips as the two idiotic college kids who really need to mind their own business when it comes to shady characters. Where they end up is truly deplorable and just opens the door for a sequel. Eileen Brennan plays a cat lady whose cats are far more intelligent. Jonathan Breck plays the lifeless creature that is about as scary as an Ed Wood movie. Heads are torn from torsos leaving viewers to utter jeepers creepers at the pointless charade. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Eating at the Rose Tattoo","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" On their way home from college, bickering siblings Gina Philips and Justin Long (as Trish and Darry Jenner) are nearly run off the Florida highway by a menacing old truck. Catching their collective breaths, Ms. Philips and Mr. Long next see something really, really creepy. From the roadside, they observe, in the distance, a monstrous figure toss a sheet-wrapped body into a tunnel. Investigating the tunnel up close and personal puts brother Long in even greater danger. Older, wiser sister Philips calls it, the part in scary movies, where somebody does something really stupid. This early sequence, featuring Long tunneling into the House of Pain church basement, certifies writer/director Victor Salva's Jeepers Creepers as shockingly good horror. And, it's great that Mr. Salva acknowledges characters in these movies are always doing the dumb things necessary for the movie to continue. Philips and Long are endearing siblings, with Salva adding credibility to his characters. The psychic angle is the weakest plot development; but, it does move the story along, and isn't too distracting. The monster (Jonathan Breck) is a grotesque, sexualized success.******* Jeepers Creepers (7/20/01) Victor Salva ~ Justin Long, Gina Philips, Jonathan Breck, Patricia Belcher "},{"Title":"Indeed, where did you get those eyes?","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Siblings Darius and Trish are driving home from college through rural America. They have a brief run in on the road with the driver of a beat up van, later on, on the road side, they observe weird goings-on from the driver of said van, an observation that puts both of them in immense danger.Jeepers Creepers tips its hat off to the creepy horror movies that were all the rage in the 70s and early 80s, boasting genuine suspense and characters fully formed, Jeepers Creepers is something of a refreshing antidote to the ream of horror movies available that line up teenagers purely to be slasher fodder. Lifting it just above average is the fact that our two sibling protagonists have viable discussions before venturing into the realm of horror staple requirements, although the picture is B movie in substance, it does however attempt to be credible in its story telling.Sadly tho, after a wonderfully edgy first half, the picture drops down in standard, the introduction of The Creeper may well be a necessity, but it shifts the film to such a degree, it rapidly loses its creepy momentum. Not that the second half of the film is a disaster, far from it, it's got a scary fun vibe to it, it's just that it promises so much, but ultimately runs out of steam. Jeepers Creepers was successful enough to spawn an inferior sequel, the Creeper of the piece firmly entering the horror hall of fame, thus an argument for the film having done its job being totally viable, it's just sad that it didn't stay on the side of edgy and become a horror classic.6/10 "},{"Title":"Good Scary Movie","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeeper's Creeper's is a much better movie than I expected. It has a good set up. A Brother and Sister take a trip to go see their mother. They travel for miles on a long empty country road and are driven off the road by a maniac in a truck. This entity is able to sense their fear and continues to pursue them. The thing chasing them is not human well not completely. It's a modern day monster flick. Not as graphic as some of the movies of it's ilk which is one of the movies stronger suits.A Good scary date movie.Movie has a enough scares to make it worthwhile So snuggle up and turn out the lights. You'll enjoy this ride. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of my top ten favorite films. Not just because I love Justin Long though. The film has a imaginative and creepy plot, and starts the action within the first five minutes.The movie is basically about a brother and sister trying to get home from college, when a strange and dirty truck attacks them. When you get pass that and the awesome basement scene, You then spend about half the movie trying to figure if the driver is human or something else.The movie is very enjoyable with it's witty brother and sister dialog, which adds softening humor at the start, but fades as the horror begins. I highly recommend this film to all horror fans.Also, you catch more creepy imagery if you watch it a second time. "},{"Title":"Amazing Horror Film","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of my favorite horror films. Jeepers Creepers had everything you expect from a good horror movie. The plot and the characters were very realistic and engaging. It was so terrifying because it felt like this could really happen most of the time. The Creeper was kept in the shadows for the majority of the film, which made this one work so well as opposed to the lesser sequel. Justin Long and Gina Phillips deliver powerful acting performances, and the end is just disturbing and perfect. The directing is surreal, and fits perfectly with the tone of the movie. While the movie does have a couple faults and some genre stereotypes that it gives in to, it is mostly a true horror classic in the vein of the old Universal monster movies that is superior in not just effects, but also quality. "},{"Title":"Better than average...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There have been very few good horror movies in the last years, and Jeepers Creepers (2001) can be counted as one of them. At it's core(and as the Tagline suggest) is a slasher with supernatural elements set in rural areas of the U.S.The plot, in a few words, tells the story of two siblings who during their trip home on a break from college, find a suspicious man dumping what seems to be bodies down a pipe. Curiosity strikes and they return to investigate.The movie seems as two movies in one; the first half is a very good horror movie where the suspense is built with subtle atmospheres in a style very reminiscent to the Texas Chain Saw Massacre. The comparison is not for free since the movie indeed captures that long lost feeling of what scary movies used to be. Acting is good most of the time and the reactions of the characters are more realistic than in most scary movies.Sadly, this loses steam after the killer is revealed, and hoping to not spoil a thing, I would say that here is where the other movie begins a generic slasher and follows the style and tone of these days trend in horror.Even when this big flaw, the movie is quite entertaining and keeps you interested. Victor Salva's direction is solid and keeps a certain style that even when it makes clear who his influences in the genre are, it is still a Salva's movie. It's kind of sad that due to his past criminal actions his career has been stigmatized, because his art is, if not rewarding, at least entertaining, and certainly better than average directors.An oasis in the desert of mediocrity, this movie is worth a look 7/10 "},{"Title":".....","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I LOVE this movie, but it could have used a few things. The creeper needs more of an explanation. I mean, what is he? No one knows, which both makes the movie worse, but adds to the suspense factor. I didn't care for the ending, but I guess it fit. I just think it could have been a little different. But other than that, it's a great movie.One thing I did love was the special effects. The creeper was one of the scarier horror movie bad guys I've seen. His wings and blossoming face were really great.The characters were great, too. Darry and Trish are the most unlikely people for something like this to happen to, making the movie funny in some parts.THIS MOVIE WILL MAKE YOU JUMP. (At least I did.) "},{"Title":"Not your typical horror movie","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This horror movie is anything but ordinary in my book. Though it's different from the other horror characters like Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhes, or Michael Myers. It's very intriguing, and very entertaining at the same time. The two sibling who get home from college really had the biggest scare of their lives. The good parts are when they went to a field to alleviate their bladders, everyone seem to like the sisters' black panties. I DID!Then you got the infamous Creeper, the thing who drives a beat-up old truck, and there was a little bit of humor when he killed those police officers he forgot the hear of one of them!The Creeper really was persistent on getting the brother, and the strange Afro-American woman who knew about the creature was instantly spared by it.This movie was intense enough, it didn't need to be any longer as it is. The creature did get what he wanted, right? 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Horror that the New century Borned!!!!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers is a movie that you may like but you may not like.Well 2000 was great year for horror movies but most of them was sequels.We needed a new beginning of a new never done before horror movie.Well,i think Jeepers Creepers is the one that we were screaming for.I don't wanna hear people who says that the horror genre is dead anymore.Here is what will you see in Jeepers Creepers.Brother and Sister are making there way back at home through a highway.Suddenly a big and strange truck horns them and they are very scared.After traveling 2-3miles more they sees the truck parked and a strange man with a costume is looking at them.But the other thing they sees is more important.They sees a bloody dead body and the man throws it through a big pipe.They are very scared and they wanna forget about everything they saw but the man with truck starts chasing them.Well you all now that it isn't a man,it is a creature but the first thoughts are that it is the typical new slasher icon but no.Well i recommend this movie to all of you horror lovers.Scary one by Victor Salva.No doubt about it. "}{"Title":"Genuine early chills become just another Krugerish 'action = horror' teen movie","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't you sometimes wish Poltergeist & Freddy had n't killed horror?Apart from a silly nod to Spielberg's Duel, the early part is scary and could have become a mini-classic. Then someone on the team decides to swap the fear factor for a camp Gothic fairy tale.Overall, the movie still ends up quite entertaining and the ending (after yet another needless Spielberg nod) is a commendable non cop-out, but this was a wasted opportunity to make a chilling commercial movie instead of a noughties teen hit.There have been some good horrors since the '80's, but after early promise this is n't quite one of them.Grade Quite Good, 6/10, watch it every now & again if you've nothing better to do for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"A film that brings cliches and originality","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Jeepers Creepers is something that gives a sometimes original story, however it also mixes chiches and old movie flashbacks (think of X-Files, Duel and Texas Chain Saw Massacre in relation to this film).  A good thrillride for the second half, with great makeup and effects, even if it shows to have been passed around to make the audience prepared, outside of a creepy ending.  A pass the time type of horror movie; it will most likely please it's targeted audience, but some people might not fall for it. Co-Executive produced by Francis Ford Coppolla (does this film also echo his film The Terror I wonder?)  Grade B "},{"Title":"The Best Horror I've Seen","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This won't actually be a real review, except to say this is simply the most amazing horror film I have yet to see.And now, in defense of my favorite horror film ever, I will lay to rest some of the questions that have been posted on the message boards.Why don't we see the Creeper's weapons before the police car scene?Simply because he didn't need them before that. The reason you couldn't see them before was probably because of that long cloak he wears. He probably had the weapons inside it.Why are the characters so stupid?I honestly don't get anyone asking this one. These were simply some of the most intelligent characters I have seen in a horror film. Much more intelligent than the excuses for humans in popular horrors such as Saw, Hostel, Paranormal Activity or Insidious.What does the Creeper do with the boy's body? Why are his eyes missing?If you weren't listening to the dialog in a movie you're watching you must be pretty stupid. The Creeper wants eyes. He won't take a person's eyes unless he likes them.Why is it never explained what the Creeper is?Unless you're so socially withdrawn that you only go on the internet to make fun of great movies you'd know there was a sequel and another on the way. Director, Victor Salva probably wanted to finally explain everything in the third movie, that way he could make more movies in the series and not have them simply be sequels, but films with a purpose, moving up to the big finale. The third movie, where everything will probably be explained.Now a question from me.Why do you have to analyze everything?Movies were made to watch for pleasure. They're supposed to be fun and a way to pass otherwise useless time. Why can't we just enjoy these movies and stop thinking so hard about things that don't matter. I supposed if you analyze movies like this, then you also think about why you need to eat food for 25 minutes before you take a bite of your cheeseburger as well, jackass. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough horror film.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Jeepers Creepers starts as Brother & Sister Darry (Justin Long) & Trish Jenner (Gina Philips) drive their way across the long desolate, isolated & remote American country highways hoping to spend the summer holiday with their parents. As they mind their own business a large dirty truck speeds up behind them & behaves aggressively until it eventually drives past. Later that day Darry & Trish pass an abandoned Church where they see the truck & seemingly witness the driver (Jonathan Breck) throw what appears to be a body down a pipe nearby. Worried Darry & Trish decide to go back & take a look, Darry discovers that the pipe leads directly into the Church's basement where he finds literally 100's of mutilated bodies all stitched together & arranged like some macabre jigsaw puzzle. They manage to inform the local police but the driver of the truck goes after Darry & Trish who soon realise that what they are dealing with is not human...This German American co-production was written & directed by Victor Salva who also has a small uncredited cameo as one of the victims in the Church basement, I personally thought Jeepers Creepers was a very entertaining modern horror film although it's far from perfect. The script begins brilliantly, it really grabbed me & engaged me as the first half is set up as a mystery but the second half of Jeepers Creepers slides into standard stalk 'n' slash horror clichés with a indestructible killer chasing teenagers all over the place & a silly psychic who can foresee the future. During the first half director Salva manages to create & maintain tension & excitement but it doesn't last unfortunately. Thinking about it it's strange because half of Jeepers Creepers is fantastic while the other half is extremely disappointing, having said that overall I still liked Jeepers Creepers as a whole. The creeper itself was far more effective when he wasn't shown fully, when it is revealed it's obviously a man in a rubber monster suit & doesn't look all that great. The film never really tries to explain what the creeper is or where it came from. With a budget of about $10,000,000 I'd have liked a better monster, the film as a whole is generally well made with nice cinematography, music & production values. There is virtually no blood or gore with a decapitated head, a guy with a hole through his body, some mutilated corpses & someone without any eyes all we get. The acting is OK by most of the cast with Philips & Long making likable stars, Patricia Belcher as the psychic Jezelle is absolutely awful & highly irritating. Jeepers Creepers is a pretty good modern horror that has a nice pace & feel to it & will probably appeal to a young teen audience. I liked it & I think it's definitely worth a watch for those interested in horror. "},{"Title":"Freeky","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" O still gets us to this day. I send my boy out at night to get things from the stable, on his way I whisper Jeepers Creepers. Holy Moley, he runs to and from. I get a kick out of it. Ha ha ha. When we first saw the movie he wouldn't go outside for nothing, he even had a hard time during the day. It's a butt kicking movie. U have to get the first one, too. If you ever wonder about watching it, it's worth it. Now if you are worried about bimbos, there is no time for dummy girls running around in their high heels. U gotta watch it, u gotta watch it. It's skins your nerves to the bone. Oh, and also your kids can watch it, make sure you make room for them to run to and hide. Even my boy almost buried himself in the carpet. You can watch it, and watch it again at night, it still gets to you. "},{"Title":"One of the worst and most unreal acted films I've ever seen","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The problem with this film is acting. I don't even know the names of the two main characters, but believe me, the worst thing they could have possible done for their carreer as actors is Jeepers Creepers. Acting in this film is SO, SO UNREAL, that maybe it should qualify as comedy rather than horror. It's a pity, however, because the script is not that bad and, had had the director a minimum sense of reality it could have been a good movie. "},{"Title":"the theme song","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A horror movie produced by Francis Ford Coppola?! Is that really possible? You betcha. And Jeepers Creepers is not all that bad. Gina Phillips and Justin Long play Trish and Darry Jenner, who come across The Creeper, a creature that comes alive every 23 years so that it can spend 23 days eating. By eating, I of course mean humans.Until I saw this movie, I didn't even know that there was a song Jeepers Creepers. But apparently there was. It sounded like it came from the '30s or '40s. A little while after I saw this movie, I saw The Day of the Locust, which had another version of the song. Anyway, this is sort of a gross movie, but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Seen better, seen worse","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know...the massive amounts of alcohol I consumed whilst watching this movie for the first time might explain why I kind of liked it. There's nothing better than a roomful of inebriated people (mostly girls) jumping and screaming on cue to make a horror movie more enjoyable.  I watched it again after I'd sobered up and was only slightly less impressed.The hero and heroine are likable, if not entirely believable.  They do some really stupid things and share some occasionally dimwitted dialogue, but at least they're brother and sister, sparing the teen-weary audience the obligatory makeout scenes.  The Creeper is impressive as well, although we never find out exactly what the hell he is.  He rather resembles a gargoyle and is able to fly with some rather stunning looking wings...but seems to prefer dressing up like a human and driving a big ol' yee-ha truck with a personalized license plate (BEATINGU) through the cornfields of the Midwest. Go figure. (How he stood in line at the DMV undetected to get that done, I'll never know.)The old abandoned crow-infested church where our villain likes to hang out is a nice set piece - moody, gloomy, drippy-wet and stinky, the walls and ceiling studded with the varnished remains of previous victims who have been ripped apart and methodically sewn back together again.  Why on earth anyone would want to investigate this place is beyond me, but that's exactly what our brother-and-sister do just minutes after being terrorized on the road by our title monster.  Yeah, right.  Okay, so some of the plot devices don't really work all that well...including an incredibly annoying psychic woman who likes to sing the old Jeepers Creepers song in an off-key, quavering voice that will have your nerve endings screaming for mercy.  But the shot of the Creeper near the end, as his wings unfold and his face blossoms open, is so incredibly impressive that it almost makes up for all of the films little flaws.  The horrific ending is also a shocker, an unexpectedly brutal climax to a film that had been played mostly for laughs up until that point.This film isn't all that bad.  It could have been a lot better if it had not swerved over the horror/comedy line so many times and just picked which side it really wanted to be on once and for all.  Perhaps this is why I preferred the sequel.   "},{"Title":"*almost* very good","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay, let's get one thing straight first. Despite of what you'll read in all the other reviews, Jeepers Creepers is NOT the worst movie ever made! I know the entire world holds a grudge against Victor Salva and I know that the ludicrous ending of this film disappointed almost every viewer. Heck, I agree the messy and stupid climax was a giant turnoff. But, due to this atrocious finale, people are actually forgetting that the first hour of this 'Jeepers Creepers' is darn creepy and sublimely photographed. The opening blends classic themes like 'Duel' and 'Texas chainsaw Massacre' as siblings Trish and Darry cruise home over remote highways, playing silly road games. They're menaced by an ugly truck and witness nasty crimes in the cellar of an old church. You're unaware of what all this means and it's an extra appeal that we discover everything at the same time as Trish and Darry. Atmospheric locations, terrific suspense sequences and unpretentious humor throughout the entire first hour really give you the idea that you might be watching the greatest horror effort since 'Scream' ruined the genre.Unfortunately (but understandable), Salva can't uphold his outstanding writing/directing work and Jeepers Creepers shifts from above average teen shocker into lame and redundant supernatural tosh. The creeper is yet another unimpressive new horror icon that looks far too idiotic to be scary and the rituals it follows are laughable. The only worthwhile aspects near the end are the gore and the catchy end-credits song. Too bad, but I think we shouldn't complain this much. The unknown young actors do a reasonably good job and there's a cool supportive role for Eileen Brennan as 'Crazy Cat Lady'. I'd say Jeepers Creepers is at least worth one viewing and don't simply bash it just because everybody else does. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  An annoying brother and sister (Justin Long, Gina Philips) are driving home from college and run into a monster that takes various body parts from its victims--and has one of them targeted.  Well-acted (even if the main characters are unlikable) and quick-moving.  It's not exactly scary, but I was never bored and there are plenty of exciting sequences along the way.  Tha main problems...what the heck does the song Jeepers Creepers got to do with anything (except for a sick/scary meaning at the end)?  Also they throw in a very annoying psychic woman (Patricia Belcher) who keeps dropping hints about what the creature is and what it's trying to do...then totally drop it.  Why bring it up then?  It's scarier that you don't know what it is.  Still, a good movie that doesn't shy away from blood and gore.  A must for horror fans. "}{"Title":"A Great Beginning of a Horror Movie","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While driving on a lonely road, Darry Jenner (Justin Long) and his sister Trish Jenner (Gina Phillips) are frightened by an old truck, which passes by their car in high speed. Later, they see the truck parked near a church, and the weird driver dropping a package in a piping digged on the ground. Darry decides to investigate and finds a hole with lots of corpuses. They inform their finding to the police and they meet an weird creature chasing them. They are advised by a clairvoyant to runaway from that being, which every twenty-third spring for twenty-three days would get to eat. Yesterday I saw this movie for the second time. Its first forty minutes is very scary and looks like `Duel' and `The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' together in one movie. However, in the moment that Trish goes to a strange house in the middle of nowhere to make a phone call to anybody specific, the story gets lost, becoming full of flaws and unexplained events. The strange powerful creature is not well resolved and the movie does not have an end. I bought `Jeepers Creepers II' on DVD expecting to find a good conclusion to many points that were not well explained in the first part. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil)  `Olhos Famintos' (`Famished Eyes')  "},{"Title":"Jeepers Creepers","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you have seen the first ever Steven Spielberg film, Duel, then you will see a similar sort of concept in this film. Two teenagers are driving around and get lost. They find an empty ranch (where they were trying for help), then they see a pipe in the ground. The boy goes inside and he sees a room of bodies on walls. When he gets out they drive away as fast as they can. Now they are being pursued by an unknown driver in a truck, like Duel. You do see the driver though, he is called The Creeper, a dried up monster with a cloak and hat. Whenever he is close they hear the song Jeepers Creepers. The ending of the film is really spooky. Good! "}]