[{"Title":"Gorgeous Portrayal of Living","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every actor gives a remarkable performance in this film which has become my new favorite.  Even the soundtrack is excellent, combining The Clash, Echo the Bunnymen, along with other pulsing musical giants, it provides a perfect backdrop to the gorgeous storyline. This simple however very rich tapestry of two young girls growing up together throughout the 70's, 80's, until today reminds me why I love movies. And the character of Nat (Oliver Milburn) reminds me why I want to love.  I could watch it over and again still never tiring of the struggle between the two main characters Holly and Marina to grow up into independence.  This is especially difficult for Holly as she strives to live under her best/worst friend Marina's constant control.  She manipulates every situation with no shame in order to keep Holly closely tied to her and out of her older brother's (Nat) arms.  It is a truly intense dynamic between these three souls, one that has inspired me to recommend the movie to others, both men and women as it reaches both sexes. Looks can be deceiving because it is no chick flick, but a highly interesting portrayal of human behavior, highlighted by flaws each one of us have and take for granted. So if you want to see a movie that will stay with you always see this one.  It's clever, incredibly moving and intelligently sexy.  I highly recommend it!!!  )   "},{"Title":"Bloody good show!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a middle-aged white man, not a teen chick, and yet I must confess to having felt that this was a fine bit of work from so many POVs- and an entertaining package for their efforts.Yes, there were times when it was too clear that the actresses were improvising their lines for a scene- but I could forgive it! There were far more instances where the lines were so spontaneously delivered that their candor felt just right, honesty beyond reproach.The young women were excellent in their craft and sincerity. The screenplay was very believable, intelligent and did not pander- even if it tried too hard to include too much turmoil. The dialogue was delicious. The direction was tentative in its lack of assurance (some moments that the cast ought to have been reined in rather than indulged) but mostly, the direction shows solid instinct and craft.Finally, the cinematography is very fine. The framing and tracking show the viewer a smoothly handsome progress of scene and plot - without any trendy or self-conscious technical digression. Thank you, my friend, for your refusal to drown us in camera-shake!All in all, I feel this was a fine project lovingly rendered by a sincere  and generously talented team. As for their slight lack of self-confidence, it leads me to expect greater pleasure from their next work. This lot will not be undone by complacent ennui! "},{"Title":"Iconoclastic","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A real look at  women with depth and foibles sustaining a friendship- Why is this  so rarely done? The details are succinct and amazing. This is what real people  look like and act like- when they're tired, confused, angry, jealous etc., etc. No  glossing. By showing the 'bones' of the characters' neuroses the evolution of the  people themselves and their friendship becomes complex and satisfying. And,hey, the period details are fabulous- I was right back there with them wearing  tarty, tatty club clothes and listening to Adam Ant with fake pirates. Loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good...","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Friendship is a curious thing, and it's a topic which hasn't been explored too recently at the cinema. Me Without You puts this right, following the relationship between Holly (Williams) and Marina (Friel) from the seventies through the present, watching as them grow up and exploring their feelings towards each other and each other's families.Imagine a British answer to The Ice Storm or American Beauty, and you're about half-way there, as this contains performances of genuine passion and emotion which leads you to engage on a surprisingly deep level with the characters as it delves beneath the surface of friendship. There is a moment about an hour in with Holly where it was impossible not to feel her character's desperation. While mostly drama, there are many moments of subtle humour which are effective without disturbing the overall flow of the piece.The direction, especially with some inspired lighting in the last half hour is more than adequate, and the soundtrack perfectly evokes the spirit of the era, as do the costumes which have obviously had great care taken over them.More importantly, though, this is a film which will really make you think, make you question the nature of friendship and your friends - you'll want to recommend this film to them, but you probably won't for fear of losing them afterwards!A delight, and not at all what you might expect from a British film starring an ex soap actress. The two leads put in fine performances, and the supporting cast more than pull their weight. It's fair to say that I felt some of the nudity and drug use were slightly gratuitous, but this is a criticism that could also be levelled at American Beauty to a certain extent. This isn't quite a five star film, but it's pretty close.  "},{"Title":"A messy, busy, charming little English film about girls muddling through.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Summary A messy, busy, charming little English film about girls muddling through `Me Without You' is a nice little movie (or should I say film?) that's a lot of fun if you'll let it be. Its depiction of a dependent relationship between two young Englishwomen from the Seventies till now is messy and busy. That's fine. If life wasn't messy and busy in the Seventies and Eighties I don't know what it was. Clothes and décor and music are thrown at us to evoke the successive periods in a way that ranges from charming to grating. The focus isn't on that; it's just a way of showing the passage of time, the saga of lives moving on. The early sequences jump a little too fast. When you go from the little girls to the young women you may think they're wholly different people. You may think the metamorphoses of the young women are too rapid. But quite early you start to care about both women, and about Marina's sweet and good looking but tragically unavailable brother Nat. This is a women's picture in the good sense that it knows what makes men attractive to women and why that both matters very much and isn't quite enough. It seems to take Nat and Holly about twenty-five years to get together for keeps. The relationship between Marina (Anna Friel) and Holly (Michelle Williams) makes disfunctionality and exploitation between people seem okay, and that's fine too. Mostly we don't question our intimate relationships. The assumption is that the relationship is symbiotic. Pretty early on it becomes clear that the insecure but fast Marina exploits and abuses Holly, while the slightly mousy but smart Holly sticks around because she's too nice and too needy not to. It takes a few decades for this to end, for Holly to realize that Marina needs her more than she needs Marina.I think what makes this a good film (I will say film) is that it's informed by the English spirit of muddling through, of not expecting too much, but there's an underlying moral sense. There's some of the same kind of wry honesty that comes at the end of Schlesinger's `Sunday Bloody Sunday.' `Me Without You' doesn't try to save the world or make Teaching Points about people. It takes them as they are. You can see this in the womanizing American prof character played excellently by Kyle McLaughlan. He's a rotter, but bloody hell! He can't help it. He's sleazier than the amiable scoundrel played by Hugh Grant in `About a Boy,' but he has some of that appeal. Marina isn't a bitch. If a person as nice and as smart as Holly loves her, how can we hate her? No one is a caricature. No one is whiney or shrill. Muddling through, or making do I thought also of the mood of the once-Number One video in England, `Withnail and I' it's always rainy and things are always running out.There are a lot of scenes and little reversals of fortune and through them all Friel and Williams remain excellent, Friel as Marina changing costumes like some mod master of disguise, while the soft, slightly plain, but actually quite lovely Williams as Holly carries the film. Finally it's all about Holly. It's Holly who has the endurance and who gets the man of her dreams at the end, rewarded for her intelligence and moral superiority like a Jane Austen heroine. Williams does her English accent to perfection and quietly underplays her role. The highly saturated color of the film makes her skin look ravishing she becomes not just an English girl but an understated English beauty who doesn't need Marina's trendy, tarted up costumes and face to be splendid looking.What makes the film worthwhile and interesting is how well the two characters are written. A long time after seeing it I was still thinking about the relationship. "},{"Title":"Great movie about friendship, life, hardships and love!!!","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a very good movie and definitely not just for females in their teens and 20's. I think all females (and even many males) can relate to this movie in one way or another. It's a very realistic movie about LIFE--- friendship, growing up, partying, sex, learning from mistakes, morals, family problems, falling in love, self-destruction, standing up for yourself, being with someone you don't love because it's expected of you, long term friendships and much more. It is definitely emotional at times, but very realistic. I live in the states and get irritated at the movies here being so idealistic--that's why i really enjoy the foreign made movies so much. "},{"Title":"visually rich and funny","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this film. I cannot fathom why the above reviewer calls it maudlin and the comparison to Antonia and Jane seems way off base, as does the comment that this is somehow like a Mike Leigh film! (makes me think they have never seen a Mike Leigh film). Also the comment on the Miranda character does not inspire confidence since the character's name is Marina!In any case, this film deftly captures several eras with its complex and lush visual design, reflecting the inner world of Holly who is a creative, romantic soul and the outer surface of Marina who is a chameleon-like, savvy trendsetter. The music is also extremely well-utilized, as are the many pop cultural references that lend authenticity to the changes in chronology without being too obvious.A fine cast too! Williams and Friel are excellent and their evolution from teenagers to young women to early thirties is convincing and enthralling. I also love Trudy Styler as a pill-popping, slutty- dressing mom and Allan Corduner has a solid turn as Holly's kind, befuddled father. Kyle Maclachlan seems somewhat miscast at times but plays the reckless professor well. I also found Oliver Milburn as Nat to be charming, and though she has a small role the French actress who plays his fiancé is great...I last saw her in My Sex Life and she is also terrific in that.On its surface (the candybox colors, the fluffy music) this might seem like a Brit chick flick but it's really an exploration of what happens when an obsessive friendship grows beyond its usefulness. "},{"Title":"Coming-of-age sans treacle","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best depictions of female adolescence, and the intensity of female best friendships I've seen.  Good attention to detail. Doesn't pull its punches on sex, drugs & rock'n'roll - neither glamourizing nor moralizing.  It might take courage for parents to let their teenagers see it, but it's delusional to think kids don't know about these things.  Good to see it handled intelligently. "},{"Title":"A Sensual Experience","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've always been a huge fan of British films and 'Me Without You' certainly didn't let me down. It doesn't only show vividly the agonies and struggles of growing up from a girl to a woman, it also presents the joys in a way that all can identify with. I believe most can empathize with Marina, when she tore up the letter Nat wrote to Holly, or when she tries her very best just so that she can have Holly all to herself. Friel forces us to come face to face with the Marina in ourselves. Williams deserves more credit for her stunning performance in the film. Undoubtedly, her quiet and reserved way of playing Holly has found itself into the hearts of many, especially with her desperate yearning for Nat.To term this epic a 'chick flick' is certainly doing it and its actors great injustice. I walked away after watching it for the third time saying, 'God, I love this movie.' Kudos to the writer and director! "},{"Title":"A Cool Movie!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Me Without You is about two best friends, Holly and Marina growing up in London in the 1970's, 1980's, 1990's and of course we see what they're up to in 2001. The movie sees the up and downs in there friendship, love life and family life. Me Without You is directed by the great Sandra Goldbacher, who's a brilliant director as we see in many of her movies, including this one. Michelle Williams (With a British accent.) and Anna Friel (Ex soap star.) both star here and they both good performances as does most of the rest of the cast here. Me Without You is a great movie. I'm not usually into British films, but this one is good, even if it is different to what I'd expected. I really liked all the Jewish scenes in the movie too, especially with Holly being Jewish, as I'm Jewish too. All in all there's a good movie here. See it!  "}{"Title":"Highest Ratings for Coming-of-Age Girl Flick","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Sifting through the videostore is such a painful process--trying to figure out which video to pick, hoping that your $3 and 2 hours will be well spent--ME WITHOUT YOU was a pleasant surprise.  I rented it not knowing anything about it and was pleased to find that it was one of the best coming-of-age movies I had seen in a long time.I am a big fan of movies that take place either in one solid work day (like Clerks) or movies, like ME WITHOUT YOU, that take place over several years -- specifically those childhood to adult years.ME WITHOUT YOU focuses on the story of two white girls growing up in 1980's New Wave/Punk-influenced London suburbs.  This film has plenty of subcultural and pop culture references to Punk and New Wave if that's your thing.Here's the basic synopsis(WARNING, I MAY GIVE AWAY MORE THAN YOU WANT TO KNOW, SO DON'T READ ON IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW THIS STUFF) Girl 1 and Girl 2 are best friends as kids... Girl 1 is the mousey girl (who in my opinion is actually cuter than the pretty girl) turn intellectual and thus our film's protagonist and Girl 2 is the hip skinny wild pretty girl. Girl 1 has a crush on Girl 2's brother--which remains a point of jealousy between the girls.  The film moves us from childhood friendship ceremonies to high school angst to college-aged rebellion and eventually marriages and kids. Most of the film takes place in the college years in the 1980's with a punk and new wave soundtrack and backdrop. Girl 2 continually screws over and controls Girl 1, but in the end most of the pieces fall into place. This film is great if you like coming of age films; films set in the 80's; films with punk & new wave references, subcultural moments, and soundtrack; films set in England; & films with cute girls...This is a good movie for people who like coming-of-age flicks with girls as the main characters. "},{"Title":"I talk to you in my head.","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rented this movie originally for a week long rental. In that week, I watched it 5 times!!! A rarity! And by the time I had to return it to the videostore I had already bought my own copy.To say the least, I completely love this movie! It's just so.... realistic! Almost embarrassingly so. Girls' friendships are not always based on similar interests or even a complete like of each other. I think this movie completely captures that.The relationship between Holly and Nat is probably the biggest reason I love this film. It's understated, beautiful and heartbreaking. I think I cried about 3/4 of this movie the first time I saw it.Call it a chick flick if you want, but categorize it at the top of that genre, if you do.Superb acting and directing. "},{"Title":"can you say hot?","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If Dawson's Creek had to exist, let it be for the emergence of Michelle Williams. She was excellent in Dick and Me Without You. Besides the sappy, soap opera dramatizations, I enjoyed this film and I must say Oliver Milburn is a hottie.  "},{"Title":"I cant imagine life without them","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is a simple nostagic tale done half a million times before but the acting is so good that it will turn the movie around. Dawsons creek Michelle Williams (the best actress on that show) really does shine here and she is the better out of the two actresses. If you get a chance go see it it is suprisingly very very good "},{"Title":"Very good acting, absorbing movie","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I chanced upon the movie while casually flicking and was absorbed immediately with the quiet, understated acting of Michelle Williams. I found her exquisite and emotionally charged performance but not in a melodramatic ways. And her beautiful, soulful eyes, are hard to ignore. Yes, it sounds like cliché. Yes, it's been told over and over again. Angst-ridden teenagers with tons of issues. But this is one told differently. So if you want a slight emotional roller coaster ride and appreciate good acting. This is worth your while. I guess one wonders why didn't Nat and Molly just got together in the beginning, but I guess that's one surprise element that keeps audience (I know it kept me!) in suspense. There were also very good both poignant and explosive scenes. The highlight I agree was when Molly told Marina why she had to leave. The writer and director has a bright future. So do the 3 main casts. I'm going to see Station Agent already (MW).  "},{"Title":"The sweet middle classes","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Me Without You' is an account of over twenty years of a tempestuous friendship between two middle class women; reminiscent of Mike Leigh's 'Career Girls' in structure, although the role of sexual jealousy and manipulation in their relationship reminds one more of elements of 'American Beauty'. As in that film, the truthfulness of the representation is somewhat compromised by the casting of a very attractive actress (here the American Michelle Williams, who's nice to look at though her accent sometimes slips) as the supposedly plain friend; but the period references are not overplayed, the atmosphere convinces throughout, and first flowering of teenage sexuality is deftly and enjoyable portrayed. Williams and co-star Anna Friel enjoy a natural camaraderie as teenagers then students, but possibly the film should have been made as a shorter drama there's a natural plot-end about two-thirds of the way through, and the final portion of the story feels more constructed, as if designed to make a full length feature from a shorter tale. I still enjoyed it, if only as a taste of a youth I never quite had myself. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen the movie and I liked it, it leaves a very good impression. And it's so not like the usual baby of Hollywood. Michelle Williams is great, really. "},{"Title":"highly under rated","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  everyone should see this film, it's far better than many of the big budget action movies which we so frequently see at the cinema. Like many of the films i love (the godfather, almost famous) it spans over more than one decade and perfectly depicts the ups and downs of friend ships. it is perfectly cast, michelle williams shines as the less out going of the two friends as does anna friel as her best friend. there is no particular storyline, different issues arise during each of the featured years and the ending is amazing-i really cant fault this film in anyway, and best of all IT'S A BRITFLICK! "},{"Title":"an 'almost' in so many ways.....","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was great, very watchable, great acting, interesting twists and turns, also very emotive. I identified with Holly and was drawn in.However, what could have been an amazing film was stopped by three fairly substantial factors. Firstly despite astouding performances from Williams and Friel the two gorgeous actress' simply could not pull off the transcendence of time so pivitol in the script. The last two ages were simply unbelievable, especially the youthful Williams who remained unchanged from 1982 to 2001 apparently. Both actresses were really fantastic and their chemistry was electrifying, Williams, as Holly, was a well rounded performance and although Friel as Marina did not have the same scenes to work from she also shone. The slight flaw was Williams' accent which, whilst often excellent, waivered when she dramatically stated script. But that might just be my suburbian London upbringing which could really hear the difference between the two girls accents. Secondly, whilst i believed totally in the relationship between Holly and Marina, the addition of Nat brought much confusion. Why he would marry Isabella is simply uncomprehensive, even taking into account his need for stability in his life, the relatively small barriers between him and Holly were left there with no attempt to even really try to be with his true love. This was also unhelped by the entirely over lengthy time interludes. Lastly the ending was a complete anti climax, there seemed to be no resolution to the most important relationship, Holly and Marina. Whilst we could see the Ho9lly and Nat were together, it wasn't the important aspect of the film, as Holly letting herself be with Nat was an important element in her friendship with Marina.Sorry to write such an essay but i loved this film and was so disappointed with the ending- it was a very good film and i advise anyone to see it, but it also had the potential to be a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the few films that takes a look at women's friendships without descending into cliche or mawkishness. A little on the dark side, but great performances all around. Michelle Williams (from Dawson's Creek) not only pulls off the accent, but brings her character completely to life. The ending was a little flat, but otherwise, a pretty good film. "}{"Title":"Incredibly realistic...","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story is about these two young women, who have been friends all of their lives. There were boys, jealousy, love and hate...and still it's all about these two girls - Holly and Marina. Just the truth without any hyperbolas and unnecessary sweetness. This movie was so close to me that all of the time I watched it I had goose bumps. The central idea of this movie has been following me since I was 12...It's unbelievable how precisely director has described my (as well as any other human being's) thoughts, emotions...There are these people in our lives that just won't ever go. It's not love and it's not friendship either and it's not that we really want them to leave (?)...it is some kind of bond between people...as the Marina says There's no me without you. Watching this movie I realized how weird is this fact - you can hate, despise one people so much....and still there is something that holds you together...and I guess there is no point to resist, otherwise there will be no you ) - and that's frightful isn't it? "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie that was well acted by both leads. You want to despise Friel's character but know the character is a product of her environment. You root for Williams' character even if you can't figure out why she puts up with so much.  I liked the love story between Williams and Milburn's character. I see shades of Rene Zellweger in Michelle Williams.  "},{"Title":"A flawed, yet unforgettable film.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film that I went to see for two reasons the depiction of nostalgia and the state of British cinema- I thought it depicted the former brilliantly but confirmed the problem with British films that afflict our times. 'Me Without You- like most British films ('A Room for Romeo Brass', 'Bend it Like Beckham') would be more suited to TV- a BBC or Channel 4 film in the mode of 'Play for Today'- one-offs that aren't soap operas. Though I do admire the scope this film aims for- which should have been on a scale of TV-show 'Our Friends in the North'- i.e. hours of TV.The film has a pretty great soundtrack- Cabaret Voltaire, The Normal, Only Ones, Scritti Politti and good performances from Anna Friel and Kyle Maclachlan. The best thing here is the acting of Michelle Williams- as with Katie Holmes she doesn't seem to be bothered by on-screen nudity. This is a European approach typified by actresses like Monica Belluci, Emanuelle Beart and Romane Bohringer- it's the character who is naked. And, let's face it- when you're in bed with someone you usually are naked! The punk bit was OK- not far from the book 'The Rachel Papers'- the other side of life from suburbia; the Brighton Uni bit was even better (though I felt the unrequited/requited love throughout was a bit hokey!). There is a terrible postmodern line spoken by Williams character to Maclachlan's on Tarkovsky- in 1982 sher states My favourite is 'Nostalgia' - released in 1983 the postmodern loop of nostalgia...I do think this film says a lot about friendship and the passage of time- for that reason alone it will find a receptive audience in the future (I had some 'Speak,Memory' moments...)The end of the film is quite unsatisfactory- Friel's character being quite irritating and the will they/won't they? question answered in a rather boring manner. The final scene is rubbish- daughters who we have never seen before are meant to reference the circular nature of 'growing up' as typified by the opening scenes of Friel/Williams as young girls playing in the garden?I think this film captures that English suburban thing well- more 'Lawn Dogs' or 'Secrets & Lies' than 'American Beauty'- and I don't think it is close to 'Mina Tannenbaum'. It's much better than the recent Elton John produced film with Helena Bonham Carter and Mel Smiths excerable offerring with Minnie Driver.  This film will work on video much better- as it's closer to TV than the language of cinema. Still it is very touching, does offer allusions to Derrida,Dostoyevsky & 'The Sweetest Girl' and it does linger in the memory long after seeing it. Despite its flaws, it's much closer to where British film should be than dross like 'Snatch' and a nice feminine companion to '24 Hour Party People'. At the end of the day though, this theme has been done much better in films like 'Beautiful Girls',I Vitteloni', 'Jules et Jim'& 'Summer with Monika'- which if you like this, I urge you to see. "},{"Title":"Dark obsessive subject needs darker style","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1973, Holly and Marina are best friend neighbors. Holly is from a stable Jewish family while Marina's pilot father is rarely around. In 1978, Holly (Michelle Williams) and Marina (Anna Friel) are desperate to grow up. Holly is infatuated with Marina's brother Nat while Marina's parents are getting divorced. Marina is angry that Holly slept with Nat and tears up his letter to Holly. In 1982, the girls are together in university and Nat comes to visit. Holly is sleeping with her professor (Kyle MacLachlan) but she and Nat spends the night together. Marina continues to sabotage Holly with Nat and sleeps with the professor herself. Eventually Nat announces that he's marrying Isabel breaking Holly's heart. In 1989, Holly is a struggling writer living at home and dating Carl who is a close friend of Marina. Marina seems successful and marrying and converting to Judism. Nat is back with Isabel but their marriage is in trouble.This is a girls' best friends forever relationship filled with jealousy, possession and complications. This is the ugly side of female relationship but it takes a long time to boil over. While I like the dark subject matter, I wish it's handled with a darker style and a darker touch. Although both actresses does an excellent job. Holly's submissiveness really gets on my nerves and Marina needs to be crazier earlier. It hints at Marina's dark home life but it would be helpful to show more of the darkness. The whole tone has too much airy lightness. "},{"Title":"a stormy friendship","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The subject of this film isn't new at all. Nor is it original the coming of age of two girlfriends. We follow them from their childhood in 1973 up to the first years of the 21st century.First, 'Me without you' offers a nice going back to those years for everyone around at the time. Getting nostalgic without overdoing it. After having gotten yourself in the right mood, it's only a small step to recall memories about your own first love-experiences from those years. This film's soapy & easy-going style invites you to them.This presentation is well supported by a tasty picturing. Without being great or expensive, it delivers just a right amount of intimacy to let the plot work. "},{"Title":"Charming, and deeper than some might think","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Me Without You is a charming movie with considerable depth. It explores the pathology of long-term friendships, when people grow apart, and one of the friends is forced to become the giver, peacemaker, bearer of burdens caused by conflict and divergent ideals.Friel and Williams are compelling as two friends who, even as children, had little in common. As they become adults their differences turn into jealously, suspicion, and inevitable confrontation. Their lives completely entwined by the time they realize that their differences are often unbearable irritants, the two eventually reach a kind of strained truce.The story is a distinctly female one; men are far less likely to have such long-term or intimate friendships, and not at all likely to remain friends with someone after betrayals and unrestrained confrontation. However, this should not stop men from viewing the film. It is full of insight about women, relationships, and family dynamics. And if none of that interests you, it offers some great depictions of the 1970's and 80's (the club scenes and wardrobe from the university years, are nice contrasts to American depictions of the New Wave era). "},{"Title":"Prevails Over Overused Plot, Themes, etc.","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The performances of Williams and Friel were engaging enough to overcome even the most worn-out plot; i.e., friends growing up and experiencing change without excepting the others changing. Not to take away from some unusually gritty realism and a smart script and score. All the several supporting players are given just enough background and lines when it'd been easy to drop a few such people to superficial status.Still, MW/oY cannot avoid the need to employ the implausibility of friends staying so attached and frequent and annual meetings of all involved. Such can be overlooked because Holly and Mariana are so intriguing.Guys, this may qualify as a chick flick. But if a guy must suffer through just one chick flick, I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Ebb And Flow Of Friendships Over Years","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you live in a suburb of London, in the mid 1970s, your best friend is whomever lives nearby. Such is the case of Holly (Michelle Williams), a bookish and sweetly obedient girl and Marina (Anna Friel), a wild child of an equally wild mom (Trudie Styler), who helps mold and shape the thinking of her more reserved neighbor. Add in Holly's crush on Marina's brother (Oliver Millburn), toss in some drugs, cigarettes, and a college professor (Kyle MacLachlan) when they go off to University and you have a brilliant character study, set against the New Wave 80s, and into the 90s.Holly must deal with control issues from all around her first her stodgy parents, then dodgy Marina, who has her own agenda, even as she is trying to sabotage Holly's.It's a taut, real story, with authentic performances straight through. The questions it raises about what friends do for and to each other are explored, and the dynamic of who runs a relationship is a key element to the tale, just as much as the fantastic soundtrack of 1980s Punk and Brit Rock music. "},{"Title":"I don't know who I am when we're not us. There's no me without you","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This 2001 film from British director Sandra Goldbacher is a coming-of-age story about intense female teenage bonds and what happens to them on the road to adulthood. Marina (a splendid Anna Friel) and Holly (Michelle Williams) are in young years already fervently loyal best friends who live next door to each other. Perhaps as a reaction to this over-intensity and partly due to different parental backgrounds, their personalities develop into near opposites Marina is a self-consciously wild party-girl and eclectic dresser who dabbles with heroin and casual sex, whilst Holly is a Sylvia Plath reading intellectual, a steadier, introverted being who feels mousy and unsexy (her domineering mother is shown telling her There are pretty people, and there are clever people, as if the two were mutually exclusive). Marina deliberately tries to sabotage the burgeoning love between her brother Nat (Oliver Milburn) and Holly, tearing up a letter intended for her, and manipulatively telling him of Holly's affair with Daniel, their American lit-crit professor. Predictably jealous of Holly finding favour with Daniel (Kyle MacLachlan) &#150; both of whom are Jewish and intellectual &#150; Marina seduces him and tries to impress him by name-dropping Ingmar Bergman. Needless to say, the friendship between the two young women quickly becomes toxic and neurotic as Marina behaves increasingly possessive and histrionic, interpreting Holly's growing automony as a rejection of the friendship itself.It is a fascinating topic and one to which many women can relate. However, there are a few facets that forestall 'Me Without You' from being a great film. The director drew inspiration from an osmotically close bond she experienced as a young teenager which petered out, but was not reflected upon by the two in adulthood (at least not together). In the film, you feel that the difficulties are dramatically presented, but without them being questioned or actively dealt with by the protagonists. Holly fails to confront Marina with the truth of her behaviour, tacitly tolerating her unspoken dominance in the friendship. For her part, Marina also seems to be unable to mature beyond competitivism and rivalry with Holly. This prevents growth and development in character, in the light of which the ending seems unsatisfactorily positive. The viewer is left wondering when Holly will give her quiet suffering a voice and set Marina clear limits in their contact. Also, the script (written by Goldbacher and Laurence Coriat) occasionally lets the film down. The expression it's so street!, for example, is used so often it grates; the funky jargon of the period could have been used much more liberally and subtly and to better effect. The soundtrack also comes across as a little 'stuck on' and predictable a Joy Division poster hangs on the wall, records of The Clash, Adam Ant and Depeche Mode spin on the turntables and an attempted suicide (by Marina's mother, deftly performed by Trudie Styler) is accompanied by the music of Nick Drake, himself a famous suicide.It's nevertheless worth watching, especially for those who feel nostalgic for 1970s and 1980s fashion and music and for those who have experienced a close, deep friendship drifting into a stifling and over-dependent osmosis.Also recommended My Summer of Love, The Page Turner, Look at Me (2005), Gespenster (a German film) "},{"Title":"Me Without You","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really hoping to like this after reading the blurb on the back then checking out some of the IMDb reviews but I was very disappointed.The film is a bit of a confused mess, is badly acted, badly written and very clunky. It lacks any sophistication or subtlety and we are just subjected to scene after annoying scene of the two 'friends' constantly bickering and falling out. I was hoping for a fun British indie but got a depressing, miserable hack of a film.The main plot it just the two girls doing not much at all other than getting on each other's nerves. The sub plots are weak and annoying and usually involve secondary characters coming and going randomly and causing a bit of uninteresting melodrama.The film does not know what it wants to be or what it wants to say or what it's really about and this lack of direction and confusion comes out in every aspect of the production, making it a difficult, dull and annoying watch. Shame. "}{"Title":"A good example of the strengths and weaknesses of realistic storytelling","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies where it's supposed to be like real life, where stuff just sort of happens without the artifice of plot moving things toward a conclusion, and it's a good example of both the strengths and weaknesses of that style.Me Without You is about two girls who live next door to each other in England. Holly (Michelle Williams) is the intellectual one and Marina (Anna Friel) is the wild one. It follows their lives from being children in 1973 to grown women in 2001 and how their close friendship degenerates into disturbing co-dependency.The best things about this film are its smart observations of the rising and falling tides of life and how it lets the performers stretch themselves in the moment. The story recognizes that people flourish and languish at different times in their lives, that they aren't static or standing still. As a child, Holly is clearly the follower to Marina's leader but when they get to college, Marina is the directionless party girl while Holly is the one with her life in order. And as young adults, it is Holly who's stuck in a rut while Marina's life is moving forward. That also allows both actresses a chance to develop their characters into real people, establishing a core identity but also showing us how those people are both changed by time and circumstance, yet remain the same in fundamental good and bad ways. Without having to service a plot, the characters can develop an organic sense of realism.But the real life stylings of the story also hamper the film. It's all well and good to create complex and intriguing characters, but then you have to do something with them. That's where the plot comes in, giving a sense of purpose and direction that doesn't usually exist in real life. It connects all the action and behavior together as it moves from beginning to conclusion. Movies like Me Without You consciously avoid linear, propulsive storytelling&#x85;and they usually run into a problem as some point. In this movie, it comes as it shifts from Holly and Marina as college students to adults.The film is able to rely on the natural events of growth and development from childhood to young adulthood to give the story some structure. That sort of self-evident direction doesn't exist as grown-ups, though. There aren't that many definable moments that flow from one to another in a coherent pattern. In Me Without You, that results in the film having to introduce a bunch of really arbitrary elements to Holly and Marina's lives, things that don't naturally flow from what we've seen of the characters up until then.Another interesting thing about this film is how it demonstrates the difference between movie nudity in the American and British cinema. When someone gets naked in an American movie, there's almost always a purpose for it. It may be salacious and sleazy or it may have a genuine artistic point, but characters in American films get naked because someone wanted them to get naked at that point in the film. In British and European films, thought, nudity is often portrayed as though it were accidental or happenstance. The actors are naked just because they're in a situation where people would normally be naked and there's no effort made to cover up. They'll sit up in bed, the covers will slip down and&#x85;whoops, there's a nipple! Whether that's a more enlightened approach to movie nudity is up to each viewer to decide for themselves.Me Without You is one of those films that you'll enjoy if you buy into the characters and become invested in how their lives turn out. It asks for an emotional commitment from its audience. But if you just want to be entertained and not bothered by a movie, this probably isn't what you're looking for. "},{"Title":"Great Subject-Matter, Muddled Execution","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Me Without You is one of those films that's difficult to watch not because it's a terrible movie, but because it has the potential for greatness in its content and ideas but the execution is mediocre. Reading the plot description, I was hoping for the film to dive deep into the chaos that can be female friendships, but instead, I found a film too caught up in romantic subplots to really achieve this goal that it clearly aspires to.The film concerns Marina and Holly, two girls who grow up as neighbors and best friends. The film's episodic structure is separated into five different periods of the women's lives childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, adult independence, and finally, motherhood. In the early periods, the two girls are inextricably bound, but their relationship suffers as a result of the insecurities of both characters leading to a power struggle between the friends.Marina, the more outspoken and wild of the two, makes a strong first impression, but soon, it becomes clear that her dramatic exterior masks a weak identity. In contrast, Holly is the more subtle and passive friend, but at her core, she is principled, passionate and ambitious in a way that Marina obviously admires but cannot replicate (though she certainly tries).These personality conflicts play out mostly through their relationships with men Marina, for example, works to keep Holly from pursuing a relationship with her brother Nat, whom Holly has long adored. Also given much screen time is the sexual relationship that both girls simultaneously pursue with one of their professors. The triangulation causes drama with the ladies, further reinforcing their differences.My favorite thing about the film is that it chooses to explore these complex issues. So few Hollywood films really delve deeply into complex, female relationships. This film examines the problematic tension between the friends, rather than sugarcoating their bond like the typical chick-flick.What I disliked about the film was the execution and resolution. Rather than really focusing on the girls, their relationships with men are brought to the forefront. I would have liked to have seen other manifestations of these issues, rather than making men the catalysts for all the trouble. Furthermore, the resolution of the film is a bit weak. The women sever their ties, but little is told of how their break affects them. A whole movie could be written about the fallout of the break, and yet, the filmmakers leave it almost entirely up to the imagination.Thanks to great performances, good subject-matter, and interesting cinematography, the film isn't a complete wash. I'd recommend it to any woman (which mean practically every woman) who has suffered the heart-ache of a dysfunctional friendship. "},{"Title":"Epic chick-flick, don't miss this!","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you love stories about the relationship between women, this movie will satisfy you in many ways. It spans decades of growing up, coming of age, and finally becoming unique individuals who learn to define themselves and accept themselves and each other. This is a rather unsentimental movie that captures your heart in subtle ways. The dialogue is fast and witty. The visuals are stunning and colorful. Both women are fascinating. If you like movies like Beaches and Where the Heart Is or even Entre Nous, and you like them because you fancy the dynamics of female friendship, watch this. This is a modern-day chick-flick. Rock star chick flick. It takes many chances and doesn't have a tight message to the story. It remains mysterious and you are merely a voyeur to this relationship. You are left to make your own assumptions and draw your own opinion of what these two meant to each other.Movies like this are rarely made.  "},{"Title":"interesting theme","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was very nice in some ways. The theme of two girls of a very different temperament growing up together and discovering who they really are against the backdrop of a metamorphosing London-life in the 80's was intriguing. However, I thought the pacing of the film was often too samey, with no really big 'tell all' scenes or, in the end, believable catharsis for the protagonists. On the plus side, I thought the staging and sets were excellent. I would recommend anyone who enjoyed this film to watch French director, Martine Dugowson's, MINA TANNENBAUM - a film that covers similar territory, but perhaps is more sure of its intentions and has more dimensionality.  "},{"Title":"Boo-bloody-hoo, life's so tough","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It must be so hard, being young and pretty. Especially when your best friend is a pain in the arse.This humourless, tedious affair has angst-ridden best friends Anna Friel and Michelle Williams growing up (or maybe not) and competing to see who can be the most miserable and self-absorbed sod on the planet.In a vain attempt to hold the attention of any blokes unlucky enough to have to sit through this yawnsome bilge, both actresses expose their breasts a few times. At least Kyle MacLachlan has the decency to look uncomfortable for his part. All we seem to do is argue and sulk whines Williams towards the end. You don't say. Well feel free to bugger off and stop inflicting your misery on the rest of us.Unless you fancy the stars, steer well clear. "},{"Title":"OK BRIT FLICK??","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A passable 90 minutes, but no great shakes; just about all you can expect from British cinema in 2003.The tale has been done a 100 times, and the plot is signposted two miles earlier. Still at least Friel remains a goddess.    "},{"Title":"Maudlin and Uninspiring","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       5 out of 10     The film follows two friends from childhood to adulthood.  It observes how the two make a pact to stay friends forever as children only to find that this friendship becomes a detriment as they get older.     This British made film seems very similar to the cult hit ANTONIA & JANE.  That film dealt with the same theme but was much quicker paced, had a better sense of the absurd, and was all around more fresh and funny.  This film takes more of a bare bones working class mentality of a Mike Leigh picture.  Yet Leigh leaves more of a emotional impact and his characters always have interesting idiosyncracies about them.       This film doesn't have that and it gets kind of depressing.  The characters seem to meet nothing but perpetual heartache and disillusionment.  Having them receive a few more ups instead of a constant stream of downs might have made it a little less taxing to watch.  The Miranda character especially seems like a poster child for tragic figures.  Where is that droll British wit when you need it.     The moral of this story is how Miranda imprisons Holly with their 'friendship'.  In many ways that is exactly the same thing this friendship does to the viewer.  It becomes obvious after the first thirty minutes that these two have grown vastly separate personalities. There is nothing real to hold these two together and in real life they would have drifted apart much sooner and found other friends that would have fit more with their own individual interests.  Keeping these two together seems done only for dramatical purposes.  What is more is the fact that these girls do some really mean things to each other and no one in this picture displays any redeeming qualities or strength.     The film only seems to get interesting when it gets away from the girls friendship and focuses on the other characters.  Holly's relationship with Miranda's older brother is actually much more interesting.  The film might have done better had it broadened out from the beginning and shown how the evolution of life affects people in general.     It is amusing how in these films girls that are portrayed as 'plain janes' are still superior looking than the average women in real life.  Here Holly is considered the 'unattractive' one and yet she still has a terrific figure and a cute face.  In fact it is the supposedly enticing Miranda that seems more unattractive.  She looks too made up and gaudy.  Depending on her hairstyles she runs the gamut of looking like a poor man's Catherine Deneuve to a poor man's Shannon Doherty.  What is worse is that by the end, particularly after a bad crying bout, she actually starts to resemble a poor man's Susan Tyrell.     The film is quite polished from a technical standpoint.  There are moments of keen observations and the viewer can't help but think back to their own childhood friendships.  It also has a real nice wrap up and a good music score.  Unfortunately it tends to be unrelenting and has nothing to really make it distinctive.  It also has a small ongoing stream of sensuality to it that seems forced and predictable. "},{"Title":"Rather dreary although competently acted","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I caught this on the movie channel last week and thought it would be a nice change. Although the music brought some nostalgic moments for me, especially the opening Snowy White Horses, I found the story rather depressing. A lot was predictable and the destructive nature of Marina and the nasty way she thwarted Holly's potential relationship with Nat was hardly the actions of a best friend. THe acting was competent, but the story was substandard. WHile I understand the contrast drawn between the two families, I fail to understand why Holly's mother had to be portrayed as so pathetic - either she was a strong Jewish woman with no need to pander to modernity (her clothing was dreadful)and who valued ability over looks, or she was just inanely jealous of her more sparkling (but very nouveau riche) neighbours. Those houses were definitely 'des-res' in any decade. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A coming/coming of/of age/age chick flick","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Me Without You traces the lives and loves of two females (Friel & Williams) through 2-3 decades beginning in their teens. The girls are a study in contrasts. One's Jewish, the other gentile. One is cerebral, the other visceral. One is extroverted, the other introverted. One is the kind you  take home to mommy, the other the kind you take home to daddy....etc. With no real plot, the film simply travels through time hitting all the obligatory benchmarks....first smoke, drink, drugs; first sex, love, breakup; first college course,  job; etc. Me Without You will appeal most to those who can buy into the obviously manufactured characters and their seemingly endless growing pains. Can you say chick flick? (C+) "},{"Title":"A great film if you're...","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...a teen female. Otherwise, Me Without You is just an okay flick about the coming-of-age of two angst-ridden girls (Friel & Williams) over a decade or so exploring the usual female stuff...yada, yada, yada. The film doesn't manage anything new but the players delivery solid performances through an endless succession of situations obviously designed to create angst, woe, misery, and, of course, the ever popular (drum roll, please), ISSUES. Yes, this duo of contrasting female types have issues...boy, do they have issues! From beginning to end issues, issues and issues creating the urge to just grab them and shake them and shout in their faces like Joan Rivers...GROW UP!!!. Recommended for less sophisticated female filmgoers. (B-) "}{"Title":"Conflictescalation","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hello! I'm analyzing Me without you and have a couple of questions. Were do you think in the film the conflict between Holly and Marina escalates? I have said when the conflict gets its solution is when Holly threat Marian to leave her and she tells her how see have felt during all these years. What do you think about that? And one more question... What do you think the director want to say with this film? Describe a friendship? That's what I should have said. But maybe he's just want to show how young people acts? I believe there's a deeper thought behind this film, but what do you think? Ihope you can help me! Thank you for sharing your thoughts with me! "}]