[{"Title":"Changing Lanes A turn for Hollywood? (8 stars)","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"68 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When `Changing Lanes' first opens, the viewer is presented with a montage of jagged credits, trendy jerking photography cruising NYC streets, and electronic beats that are so cool they could be used for cryogenic freezing. It quickly seems apparent that this film is simply a star-vehicle for Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson; it seems apparent that this is a cold and impersonal genre-exercise for a successful comedy director, Roger Michell (`Notting Hill'), to branch out; it seems to be all these things until the end of this sequence when the camera glances out the window of a school bus out onto the New York City skyline, and there we see it the World Trade Center. Unlike Sam Raimi's upcoming `Spider-Man', delayed after September 11th so that the WTC could be digitally removed, this is a film unafraid to date itself, and unafraid to look at human truth.Affleck plays the role of the oddly named Gavin Banek (did they take the name &#145;Ben Affleck', throw it in a blender, and add some new letters for good measure?), a high-power lawyer on the verge of becoming one of the partners at his law firm, alongside his father-in-law. Jackson is Doyle Gibson, a reforming alcoholic father of two clawing his way out of his hole and trying to save his marriage. On a critical day in both their lives, Doyle going to court to try winning joint-custody, and Gavin on his way to seal his career-making case, the two get into a minor accident on the FDR turnpike, causing Doyle to miss his hearing and Gavin to accidentally give Doyle a signed document that is critical to his case&#133; and it all unravels from there.The two tumble in a daylong haze of malice and self-destruction, sabotaging each other's lives. Whenever either decides to throw in the towel and do the &#145;right' thing, it is too late and the other has already escalated it to the next level. His life quickly falling down around him, Gavin begins to examine it for the first time, taking a deep look into his wife, his law firm, his boss/father-in-law, and himself&#133; ultimately questioning his motivation for trying to retrieve the document in the first place.This is where the film really shines many movies ask the question &#145;what makes a man?' but `Changing Lanes' does it with honestly and authenticity. The screenplay, by Chap Taylor, asks if it is success, or if its providing for one's wife and kids, or if its true goodness, avoiding superficiality and delving into the motivations for each. In one telling monologue, Gavin's father-in-law, played with perfect tone by Sydney Pollack, says, `At the end of the day, I do more good than harm. What other standard have I got?' Unfortunately, the movie does not really ask the question of what makes a woman, even though both wives show real strength. The movie does not even seem to suggest that Gavin and Doyle's struggles could even be applied to women (obviously they could, had the movie explored that).Jackson, always an excellent actor, is great as Gibson even if he has performed better before. Surprisingly, in this film Affleck's acting actually seems to surpass Jackson's in this amazing performance that is probably the best we have seen from Affleck so far.All of the characters in the film, including minor-roles and extras, all exhibit a very human feel, and seeing real-feeling people on the screen has always been something rare and not to be taken for granted. The viewer comes to care about everyone in the picture Gavin, Doyle, their wives, the guy at the bank, even the stranger at the bar.New York City itself is alive in this movie it breathes, coughs, and gasps with Salvatore Totino's shaky, unsaturated, claustrophobic photography. Totino really looks at people and the city in the face, and does not try to make them prettier or uglier than they are. David Arnold's original electronic score is a refreshing change from the very poor attempts at orchestral music that most movies are now filled with. Arnold's score very effectively sets the mood and reinforces the tempo of the movie.`Changing Lanes' is a success for Roger Michell that shows us that a movie can have major stars, be entertaining, glossy, substantial, and pensive all-at-once.`Changing Lanes' is rated R for a fender-bender, destruction of office equipment, unseen infidelity, a shot of the World Trade Center, and honest depiction of the human condition. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"56 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was surprisingly good, for many reasons. The most obvious is probably that the characters develop before, during, and after the presented story, as the film opens at a critical time for both of them and closes with them having changed major parts in their lives.I expected this to be a glorified version of Madd's Spy vs. Spy, or something of that nature, given the hype. However, it is not at the same pace at all... the violence is not cartoonish, its realistic. The characters are not simple, they are complex. They have issues and are both trying to find a better sense of balance in their lives, both do things which they regret... all in all, this is one of the most human movies I've ever watched.Even though the characters are deep, the movie does not try to emphasis it with drawn out scenes with dramatic music or anything, which actually makes it more like watching real people than watching a movie. It also makes for a more powerful effect overall because it is up to the watcher to notice the subtleties.The acting and directing are very well done, and there is some writing which surprised me in that it showed more about the characters rather than relating directly to the main conflict (I don't want to give too much detail and spoil it). The pacing is good and kept me interested throughout, partially to see what the main characters would do next and partially to see what, if anything, they would learn from the experience.It is not as epic as something like Shawshank Redeption, and doesn't deal with esoteric themes such as Meet Joe Black or ominous themes such as Equilibirum or 1984(the novel), but in a way it is more epic because it deals with normal people who struggle to be beneficial humans despite major mistakes, pressures, and conflicts. "},{"Title":"Anything You Can Do I Can Do Better, I Can Do Anything Better Than You.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Uneven, but still strangely likable production has lawyer Ben Affleck and alcoholic insurance man Samuel L. Jackson having a minor accident on the freeway. Both are late for important appointments and Affleck makes the dire mistake of leaving Jackson stranded and accidentally leaving a hugely important document at the scene. Soon it is apparent that Jackson's tardiness to a court hearing was devastating as it becomes clear that wife Kim Staunton and their two young children are going to move west to get away from Jackson for good. Affleck's lost document creates a frenzied search to find Jackson and get the papers back, but we all know it is not going to be that easy. A wild and crazed cat and mouse game then starts as the road rage flows over into both men's lives. Now each are in a contest to destroy the other one before their enemy gets the chance. Fast-moving and quick-minded, Changing Lanes kept me interested until a somewhat contrived ending that really seemed to not fit in with the rest of the picture. Affleck and Jackson are both pretty good here and the supporting cast is strong enough to keep the momentum of the two leads moving. Not the best film ever made by a long-shot, but still not a bad little ride. Just be sure your ride does not hinder those around you. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The trailer lied, as trailers often do these days...","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers.Changing Lanes is much more complex than the trailer leads you to believe. From the preview, you'd think it is an action fan's over-revved, simple-minded revenge thriller with lots of vehicular mayhem. Believe it or not, it does more peeling back of the layers of insulation of the affluent/powerful end of the social spectrum than any film I have seen lately. (--And not in the way the disappointingly too-pat-to-downright-absurd 'John Q' did, either.)It's a film noir, and one of the darkest at that, full of despair, cynicism and scathing revelations about human nature. It seems to say-- or really, and this is a major distinction, to be about characters some of whom believe-- that we all make deals of personal expedience with Morality, that no one escapes life formation uncompromised and therefore able to comment on or judge anyone else's choices or actions. It's the old amoral, nihilistic/relativistic universe routine, which says concepts of fairness, justice or morality are quaintly irrelevant, that stuff just keeps happening, always has and always will, que sera sera.My favorite scene, which was revolting and ugly and creepy as anything in any horror film you can name, is when Affleck sits down in a fine restaurant to discuss with his wife the morality of the situation he has been sucked into and is getting in deeper by the hour. He recognizes rightly that his game of oneupmanship, and win-at-any-cost has gotten insanely out of control. He is beginning to question it all, everything in his life. He comes to his wife for solace, direction, insight, a hint of moral rectitude, any help she can offer. She helps him, alright-- by saying she knows he does dishonest things (like having an affair with a woman at the office, which up until she springs that, he thought was his little secret) and that she could have had an honest husband, if that was all she wanted. --Why would she make a scene over an infidelity and risk interrupting the flow of her resources, anyway, she asks. He splits the dinner, dazed and even more desperate. In the next scene we witness him doing more of those very things he has just been having moral anguish over. (Maybe he can't recognize the feel of moral anguish at first.)The Affleck character has a tremendous amount at stake, courtesy a pretty nifty plot hook, that keeps him up to some very dirty tricks. Sure, he doesn't want to risk interrupting the flow of his resources, either. But I think it's clear that the real reason he keeps doing crummy things is because he is a man compulsively drawn to the rewards of a destructive mode of behavior. Others gamble or drink or eat too much. Affleck works the system, lying, cheating, and treating all people like garbage. That's his high, his inescapable need. He can't quit. (Late in the film, he agrees to hire an idealistic young intern because, he laughs uncontrollably to himself, he wants to see what the intern's optimism and altruism looks like after 5 years of hard weathering by his no-rules-in-life employer.) Affleck is sick, and while he finally recognizes that sickness, he resigns himself to keep doing the same thing because, as his boss tells himself, he is willing to believe he has done more good than harm at the end of the day. The Affleck character's motivations for being extra bad, in the episode of his life we glimpse here, are strong enough to keep Changing Lanes from being just another American psycho study; it's easy to believe we could turn Affleck, given a similar circumstance in our life.The ending is a somewhat forced positive one, but not nearly as much a sell out as is usually the case with a made-by-committee major commercial film. I give the whole enterprise 8.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Something different; Something good","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I'm not going to slap this movie on my Top 10 list or say it deserves an Oscar nod, like many critics have exclaimed, but I will say it's something different.  First of all, it's real.  Not an artificial Hollywood shoot 'em up or disaster flick.  This is a film about the human struggle. There's no violence or sex, and if it weren't for about 7 uses of the f word Changing Lanes could've easily earned a PG-13.  So don't let the R-rating fool you.There are three main reasons why I checked out this movie  Samuel, L, Jackson.  Needless to say, he's a terrific actor and worth seeing in whatever he does.  He's one of my favorites, and he delivers another powerhouse performance, taking on a role somewhat different from his recent roles  he plays an average Joe.  We're introduced to his character, Doyle Gibson, who's a very nice guy simply haunted by mistakes in his past, one being alcoholism, which led to a divorce.  And now he's attending AA meetings and buying a house for his two kids, hoping he will attain custody of them.  Ben Affleck is good and charismatic.  I didn't sympathize as much with his character, but that doesn't make him an antagonist.  Neither characters are saints, nor are they sinners.  That's good, because it's never completely effective to include characters who are entirely sympathetic.  They're both mature adults, but they resort to juvenile acts of revenge in hopes that they can undo what happened.  Sydney Pollack is great, as Affleck's egotistical father-in-law, proving his talents in front of the camera are just as fine as his talents behind the camera.  I wanted to see more of the beautiful Amanda Peet, but she only has approximately 7 minutes of screen time.  So I'm guessing that topless scene I heard mentioned didn't make it to the final cut.  Oh, well.  William Hurt, who seems to do a movie every 5 years, unfortunately has a small, thankless role as an alcohol counselor.The script is well-written, and the film is a lot more character-driven than ones of recent years.  I loved that scene in the bar where Sam Jackson sits in a lonely bar, listening in on two white guys badmouthing Tiger Woods. He lashes back with a terrific monologue, and later ends up punching them out. Some directors would've cut that scene out, overly concerned about the film's pacing, but I'm glad this time that wasn't the case.  However, the ending seems a little fake.  It's just too happy for its own good.  But that's the only element of the movie I found forced.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A commercial film that's actually subtle","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I imagined this was going to be one film from the previews I'd seen, but in reality it turned out to be another - a far more subtle experience than I had expected. A lot of the people in the packed theatre where I saw it apparently expected that other film too; they seemed disappointed when they'd left - they'd probably been expecting yer basic escalating violence, with us cheering for Jackson as the good guy and Affleck as the bad. Not a black and white movie (no pun intended), more of a karma sort of thing, with the two main characters learning from each other in ways they never realized they would (or needed to). And heavy-handedness is nowhere to be seen. Kudos for that alone. "},{"Title":"I'm definitely Changing Lane!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was surprisingly good, but fans of car chase sequences and the like will be extremely disappointed. The acting and directing is expertly carried out, with special praise to Ben Affleck as Gavin Banek. Changing Lanes actually explores more depth into the main characters, and how their lives will change, either for better or worse, rather than just dealing with pure and simple 'road rage'.Samuel L. Jackson was well appointed as Doyle Gipson, and portrays his part well. One character's next move to destroy the other makes compelling viewing, and we can actually feel some sympathy for them, as we see both their emotional and compassionate side.The story flows well as we are drawn into Banek and Gipson's desire to cause pain and hurt, not giving any thought to others who maybe affected by what they are doing. Changing Lanes is not a violent film as such, it simply explores the aspects of revenge in what could be a true-to-life measure. This is what makes it an entertaining and gripping movie that proved a winner for myself, and should do for many other film fans. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie thwarted by its mismatched trailer","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I want to start off by saying I can completely understand how viewers felt this movie was dull and lifeless. After the adrenaline-pumping portrait of road rage that the marketing department projected for this movie in its previews, it does fall completely short of expectations.Yet the true Changing Lanes was much more subtle and humanistic than it was meant to be. Street scenes are painted with a damp, dingy gray color. The music is spare, thin, and mostly bleak. The two main protagonists are people who are difficult to like, though Samuel Jackson plays a more sympathetic character, victimized not just by a smug lawyer, but by a history of alcoholism that has resulted in the disintegration of his family and of his life.What I appreciated the most about the series of events in this movie is that manifested rage that this movie cashed in on turned out to be quite believable. The characters lashed out at one another, but often withdrew into a sort of introspective horror for what they had done. They were motivated to do bad things, but they were not bad people.The ending, perhaps, was a bit too pat, perhaps attempting to assuage viewers who had just sat through 90 minutes of ugliness, but it didn't sit that badly with me, and I enjoyed Affleck's drifting speech about the girl on the beach in the end. This movie wasn't perfect, but it had a consistent style, an appropriately low-key but still edgy soundtrack, and an interesting exploration of two people who were arguably closer to losers than heroes; yet they were interesting due to their flaws.If you've seen the preview for this movie, try to forget you ever saw it and instead enjoy the considerably less glamorous movie that Changing Lanes turned out to be. "},{"Title":"Although flawed at places, still a gripping and thought-provoking film","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While Changing Lanes won't probably make it to my personal top-something favorite movies list, it was nevertheless a solid film, sufficiently different from the Hollywood cliche majority of the genre to be remembered. The managed to keep my attention from waning, and the ethical questions it raised forced me to do a bit of thinking.I might not be a strict enough movie critic, since I tend to forgive--overlook, even--a number of flaws, as long as they do not outweigh the good sides of a film. So yes, it does have a few rather unconvincing bits ***POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT*** (first and foremost, I can't see why go and bankrupt somebody after only one attempt at, uhm, reconciliation) ***END OF SPOILER***, but if you disregard them, suspending your disbelief for a while, you can really enjoy the movie. It grips you, even though the action doesn't rush at a breakneck speed; and thank goodness that it doesn't, because that is why the movie stands out from the crowd. (As for those IMDb posters who considered that boring it wasn't. I'm really sorry for you guys, if you really need to be bombarded with adrenaline to enjoy a film.) Changing Lanes is a personal-vendetta thriller with a difference instead of a steady escalation of anger and violence, constantly augmented by the revengeful side of man's nature--as is usually the case in I-hold-a-grudge-against-you-and-vice-versa movies--we see it moderated now and again by the other, more human side of these two guys, neither of whom is really wicked or degenerated. This is where what I see as the strength of this film lies--and what some other posters considered the source of implausibility the apparent inconsistency of the actions the two protagonists take. True, they are inconsistent, but it is because there are two strong, contradictory forces at play. Even if the movie exaggerates things a little, it still gets my respect for avoiding one-sidedness. We human beings are, as a matter of fact, pretty erratic creatures, says the movie. And given the right circumstances, we can be really nasty, too, though we'd never suspect ourselves of that.***POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT*** And the ending? Sure, so things might have ended, well, more grimly. But does it really spoil the movie that much? I'd say, rather, that it simply rounds up the whole idea of the film, which is not utterly pessimistic, and definitely isn't judgmental. Granted, in a very good commentary-like scene towards the end, Affleck's character laughs in the rookie lawyer's face when the latter says that men are by nature good; but the film doesn't say we are incurably bad, either, and the ending only adds to that. By the way, I don't think it is all that nice-and-happy and doesn't fit the rest of the picture; the better side of the struggling Affleck, the one which comes out on top, is never really concealed earlier in the movie, while for Jackson things are still rather open-ended--though I've got to say that he deserved at least that much. ***END OF SPOILER***The acting is really fine and convincing, the photography interesting, the soundtrack doesn't particularly stun, but doesn't irritate, either. My recommendation do see this film if you have a chance. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Simple Accident on the FDR","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyed the great acting of Ben Affleck,(Gavin Banek) along with an outstanding performance by Samuel L. Jackson,(Doyle Gipson) who are total strangers until they both have an accident on the FDR in New York City. Gavin Banek is a financial lawyer who works for his father-in-law who owns the firm and is being groomed for bigger and better things in this law firm. Doyle Gipson is recovering from substance abuse and is very happy about being able to purchase a new home and also the fact he will be able to go before a judge and show how great his rehabilitation is working out for him, so he can have the custody of his two children. This accident causes problems for both of these men and the entire story deals with how these two men are able to face some very difficult lessons to be learned by both of them. There is no romance just a very confused bunch of guys dealing with their problems in unbelievable ways and causing more problems than is necessary. John Hart, Body Heat is a sponsor for Doyle Gipson in his AA Group and does everything he can to make sure Doyle does not take a drink. "}{"Title":"Should have been so much better","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As we know from Michael Douglas's performance in Falling Down, driving on the roads of American cities can make you crazy. So it's not too surprising when a fender-bender on New York's FDR Drive brings into conflict a hot-shot young lawyer trying to keep his law firm out of serious trouble (surprisingly well portrayed by Ben Affleck) and an alcoholic struggling to keep in touch with his estranged wife and two sons (Samuel L Jackson as a more conventional character than usual). But a mislaid file rapidly leads to a vicious escalation of alternating retribution in scenes reminiscent of The War Of The Roses. British director Roger Mitchell (Notting Hill) uses some edgy camerawork and rapid cutting to pile on the tension but, just when he should be pushing his characters to breaking point, the whole thing collapses into a most unsatisfactory ending of unconvincing decency. Along the way, Sydney Pollack, who has himself directed a movie exposing the hypocrisy of the legal profession (The Firm), is on the mark as the head of the law firm and the father-in-law of Affleck's character, but first-rate actors like William Hurt and Toni Collette are only given bit roles. The whole thing could, and should, have been so much better and the main fault has to lie with the last quarter of the script.  "},{"Title":"Something to Know","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I did something this time I've rarely done before see what the 'professional' critics said before I formulated my own words. And it might be the last time I ever do this. For whatever 'critics' give us in terms of a preview of a movie we haven't seen yet, they're basically a bunch of full of it snobs with a POV none of us have and none of us want.Why go off on such a tirade about these riffraff? Because they chew up the ending - the ending to this flick which is the one good thing about it. Critics, you'll realise sooner or later, are heartless nerds. They have no souls. They don't go to the movies for the same reasons we do; to them it's a job; to us it's a life; we have a life; they do not.So don't believe them on this one. The ending is good - very good. When we saw it we yelped for joy. It came so unexpected and it was so brilliantly orchestrated, you wanted to join in a standing ovation.And the ending is what makes the movie. This is no action thriller, no Michael Douglas 'watch me unravel at the seams and have some fun with the destruction and chaos'. This is a movie with a purpose, with hope - and you might not see it at first, but that's not your fault the movie makers are toying with you. For your own benefit.A definite keeper. A sure winner. Music by Bob Marley. "},{"Title":"Boy, and I thought I had bad road rage","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know what this movie reminded me of? LOL! School yard fights You started it!. No, that's not a quote from the movie, but that's what it had reminded me of. Over all, Changing Lanes is a fast paced exciting movie that is pretty enjoyable.We just start off with Sam and Ben who are both caught in some horrific traffic jam and get into a car accident. Ben has a very important court case to get to and doesn't have enough time to go through swapping insurance numbers and such and tells Sam better luck next time leaving him with a car that is not drivable in the rain. Sam notices Ben left an important folder at the accident for his court case that could make or break his career. Sam also was due in court, for his custody of his children and his tardiness causes the lose of his children. Ben freaks out when he notices the folder is missing and tracks down Sam, but Sam isn't willing to give up the folder quite yet. They go back and fourth between revenge tactics that's pretty immature.It does have a happier ending thankfully where the two put their differences aside and actually end up helping each other. This is a decent movie and I'd recommend it.7/10 "},{"Title":"If Ben Affleck adds any more to his collection of turkeys, he will be able to corner the Christmas market","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes starts with a collision between two cars during the New York morning rush hour. Neither driver is injured, and neither car sustains serious damage. Yet this seemingly-trivial happening sets in motion a chain of events that will lead to both men committing several crimes, up to and including attempted murder.The two drivers are, by coincidence, both on their way to Court hearings. One is Gavin Banek, an ambitious young lawyer with a top New York law firm, who is acting in an important case involving the administration of a charity set up under the will of one of the firm's clients. The other is Doyle Gipson, a divorced father on his way to a hearing concerning the custody of his two sons. As a result of the collision, Gipson arrives late for the hearing only to find that the judge, impatient with waiting for him, has awarded custody to his ex-wife, meaning that she is now free to take them to Oregon where she intends to live.Things also go badly for Banek at his hearing. Upon arrival at Court he finds that he is missing a vital document and realises that he must have accidentally left it with Gipson while the two were exchanging names and addresses. The judge gives him until the end of the day to file the document with the Court. When Banek traces Gipson, however, and asks him to return the document, Gipson, still angry about the collision and about the outcome of his own court case, refuses. Banek thereupon hires a computer expert to hack into Gipson's computer records and tamper with his credit record, effectively making him bankrupt. He then contacts Gipson again, informs him what he has done, and tells him that he will restore Gipson's credit rating in exchange for the missing document. This leads, in effect, to a declaration of all-out war between the two, each trying to outdo the other in bad behaviour, culminating in Gipson trying to kill Banek by sabotaging his car.This film might have been better if it had been made as a black comedy, but the film-makers chose instead to make it as a serious human drama. James Berardinelli described it as a statement of how external influences can cause an otherwise decent human being to do things that are despicable. It does not really work as such, largely because the two protagonists (and most of the other characters as well) are so unlikeable. Despite his attempt to kill Banek, we can perhaps regard Samuel L. Jackson's Gipson as being as much sinned against as sinning. He is, after all, subject to severe provocation, not only from Banek, but also from his ex-wife Valerie and from a bureaucratic court system that seems unwilling to make allowances in his favour, and he does have at least one redeeming characteristic in that he is a devoted father to his sons. It must be said, however, that many of his problems are self-inflicted. (He is, for example, a recovering alcoholic, and it was his drinking, and drink-fuelled violence, which led to the breakdown of his marriage). Perhaps the best evaluation of his character comes from his Alcoholics Anonymous sponsor You know, booze isn't really your drug of choice anyway. You're addicted to chaos.It is, however, more difficult to regard Ben Affleck's Banek as an otherwise decent human being. Banek works for the sort of law firm which has, to say the very least, a relaxed attitude to legal ethics. Although he is not mired in outright criminality quite as deeply as some of his colleagues, especially the senior partner Stephen Delano, who also happens to be his wife's father, Banek's moral standards are nevertheless low. In an attempt at self-justification Delano asks rhetorically At the end of the day, I do more good than harm. What other standard have I got? This self-assessment, however, is not borne out by the plot; the film shows us a good deal of the harm that Delano has done and no evidence that he has ever done any good. Apart from a contrived and implausible ending, there is no evidence that Banek has ever done any more good than his father-in-law. When Banek is forced to confess to his colleagues that the vital document has gone missing, Delano's solution is to manufacture a replacement by combining the donor's signature from another document with a photocopy. Banek objects to such forgery on ethical grounds, even though his own behaviour towards Gipson is just as illegal and could be regarded as even more immoral.Affleck seems to have a talent for picking the wrong films (see also Reindeer Games, Pearl Harbor, 200 Cigarettes and several others). If he adds any more to his collection of turkeys he will be able to corner the Christmas market. Although it garnered some critical acclaim, for me Changing Lanes falls firmly in the turkey category. It struck me less as a study of two otherwise decent men under pressure than an entirely predictable account of what might happen when an alcoholic chaos addict meets a shyster lawyer. The result is neither edifying nor enlightening. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Movie with a Moralist End","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) is a lawyer in a hurry to the court that hits the car of Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson) in a highway and leaves the scene of the accident without giving a lift to Doyle. He leaves a blank check to pay for the damage and refuses to give a lift to the victim. But he forgets his power of attorney in the scene of accident. Gavin is defending his company against the inheritor of a foundation, who claims that he deceived her grandfather to get the power of attorney and administrate the millions of dollars of the foundation. Doyle is also going to the court to defend himself in a separation process moved by his wife, and because of the twenty minutes lost in the accident, his case is decided by the judge on the behalf of his wife. From this point on, Gavin will start a war against Doyle, trying to retrieve his document. The rage between them will increase along the plot. This movie is great, although the moralist end of the story does not fit to the profile of the character of Ben Affleck. The acting of the cast and the direction are sharp and keep the attention of the viewer. Attention to the dialog of Ben's wife Cynthia Banek (Amanda Peet) with him in the restaurant it is one of the most cynical I have ever seen. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Fora de Controle (Out of Control) "},{"Title":"Not for attorneys","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone with knowledge of courts and the law will find the initial plot device absurd. If the original power of appointment was such an important and irreplaceable document, the firm partners should have had Atty. Gavin Banek go to court to file the document escorted with security guards. More realistically, they would have filed a motion with a certified copy of the document, and later file the original if necessary. That Gavin, knowing the document was irreplaceable nonetheless brings it out of the car to be inadvertently dropped is also quite silly. The other nonsense is that Gavin had to be on time at the hearing, or else, even after suffering the traffic accident. Having Gavin do other things on such a precarious day, like interview job candidates, makes no sense. That Gavin is one of the partners son-in-law further piles on the absurdity.Meanwhile, Doyle Gibson, while no lawyer, does some very stupid things of his own, like not cashing on the opportunity and picking up a computer in a bank and throwing it down to the floor (with no consequences). Later Gavin very tensely confronts the same officer, who seemingly not having learned his lesson, continues to behave like a jerk. I was expecting Gavin to throw down to the floor his newly installed computer too.Then we have Master Hacker, who can with just a name enter a man's banking and credit accounts and delete them all and declare him bankrupt, and later undo all these things, all in just minutes. He is a useful, convenient but totally unreal device. Why use him instead of hiring some goons to force Doyle to return the document, well, I guess the reason was that Gavin did not know any goons, only Master Hacker.Gavin gets panicky and activates the sprinklers in the office in order to access a file. Water flows in buckets for minutes while people are forced to evacuate and firemen rush in. Gavin returns later in the evening and the office seems OK, no signs of the deluge. Hell, even one of the interview boys is still around.Why then the 5 stars you may ask? The film seemed good intended. And contrary to others, I liked the denouement. A lot. "},{"Title":"this is a review of changing lanes with samuel l jackson et al","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Firstly, the reason why I decided to review this film is because of the awful,and unfair, reviews its had so far... I came across this film on pay per view channel and thought it looked an interesting and ominous type of film work. The film revolves around the main two characters, Gavin Banek and Doyle Gypson. The movie opens with Doyle and Gavin both in rush to get to a court date ( totally separate events ) and they are both involved in minor car crash, in which Gavin gives Doyle file of importance by mistake when they exchange numbers... As the film goes on its based around human relationships and on the premise of what people will do to get what they want back and how low they will sink. I personally love films that explore humanity, or lack of it... There goes my review, not going to over go in to it and spoil the twists and turns, but the slimy gavin character sure does pack a punch in a metaphoric sense...and you'll be gasping with disbelief in a couple of parts of how low he does sink and slide.. well happy viewing and hope you like it. Admitedly its not for a action film fan, or someone who wants to sit and be entertained by copious amounts of violence and sex, but if you're in to a film about people and relationships, people's conscience and greed then this is a film for you!!! "},{"Title":"Gripping!! Moral!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm guessing this film has long since found its way to the cheap DVD bins for maybe $4 or $5.If you find it there, grab it. This is a terrific film.The film is about choices, the kind that real people face everyday in a tough city like New York. Which is absolutely a very tough city.The choices from Samuel L. Jackson's point of view are about meeting the standard, not having that next drink, showing his family he is worth having back.The choices for Ben Affleck revolve around ethics, partnership, revenge and the Manhattan moral world that requires things done because they must be done. He's a lawyer, but had this film been shot more recently, he surely would have worked for a securities trading firm.The pair collides---on the FDR---and the test, gripping, paced, pressured from both sides, begins.It's not a car chase, but rather an emotional ride that reveals levels the film doesn't seem to outwardly promise. It's a shame. The 6.5 currently displayed at IMDb means so many serious film viewers won't try it. And you should. "},{"Title":"chance meeting changes lives","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Came into this movie when it was shown on t.v. at the part where the Ben Affleck character was meeting his wife in the restaurant. Was intrigued enough to rent it to watch with my husband. Actually we thought, based on our recent movie going experiences that it is pretty good. I know from personal experience what a seemingly minor fender bender can have on lives. Criticisms would be that we know immediately what kind of a person Gavin is at the time of the accident and his later reformation because of what. . . the sight of two kids. . . is a little implausible. Not only the two main characters but also Doyle's wife are supposed to be believable in major turn arounds. The cast was great and my favorite line was uttered by William Hurt, you're not addicted to alcohol, you're addicted to chaos Such an addiction is not going to be overcome by one good act. Still overall this was an absorbing, fast paced look at a slice of human life and into the human psyche. Also I loved the rain and the drowningness of it as the characters were drowning. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I liked the movie for it had a brilliant line up. It is a bit of an extraordinary story, but they made it real. They did a great job in casting Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson and they made the differences between them very clear. I sympathized with Samuel L. Jackson and I thought Ben Affleck was a bit of a loser, he cries again a few times in this movie, but in the end, when he stood up against his father in law, he did a good job and I sympathized a bit with him too. Ben Affleck is a loser in his movies more often, I think he shouldn't cry so much in his films. But in the end he always turns out to be a bit of a loser, but a great actor, a bit like Hugh Grant. In short I could recommend this movie to all of you. "}{"Title":"The last scene did it...","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes you sit there and watch the last scene in the movie, and you think This movie could have been much better with a more credible ending. Hollywood like them happy. Well, this one, Changing lanes, I found ending in a quite credible way. That, and Affleck and Jackson who both made good efforts in their role-figures - Afflecks role being somewhat shallow, but made the best of - made me think this was one good evening spent. 8. "},{"Title":"Overhead Sprinklers and works of art","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wasn't the law firm boss just a bit too cool about having his entire office drenched by the overhead sprinkler system? Particually the priceless Mark Rothko and David Hockney(?)paintings.Deanman  "},{"Title":"why always with the fighting?","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ---SOME SPOILERS IN THIS SUMMARY---This was an enjoyable enough cinema trip. For escapism value I would rate it highly. I usually cant stand films that are utterly unrealistic but this one has an edge to it. A more menacing undertone than a lot of films of the genre. The two protagonists, Jackson and Affleck, wage a day long war against each other after Jackson mistakenly ends up with a crucial law file that could jeopardise the career and freedom of Affleck's character. Throughout the film, we are confronted with characters who seem to reflect perhaps the strongest urge in western societies today I DON'T GIVE A DAMN. Even if my career, my life, my driving even, are impinged upon in a slight way, all hell can break loose. Even though I've only spent a few months living in the US before, you do get a sense of claustrophobia in the big cities, and this is very apparent throughout this piece. The constant seething of the city, people everywhere. It seems to feed into the paranoia and violence of Jackson in particular.However, in making these points, it makes me wonder why American film producers are so keen on producing an often violent and disturbing picture of big city life when in fact a much more subtle use of threat and force could produce a better film. For example when Jackson loosens the wheel of Affleck's Mercedes and almost causes a fatal smash, only a few scenes later we see something of a reproachment. The guy tried to kill him and now they're friends???!! The violence in it is obviously (and worryingly) desired by American audiences but most of it is so unnecessary. Even for a fictionalised film.Still though, its the type of film that can rarely bore, save for the disappointing ending, which most seem to agree on in this forum. The ding dong battle of wills and the malevolent third parties who gnaw away at Affleck's character in particular make for some interesting viewing which harks back to my original point about 'survival of the fittest' and 'I dont give a damn' mentality prevalent in US and other western societies these days. I like the way also we get glimpses of the World Trade Centre and a pre-911 New York, good to see that the producers and director werent afraid of perhaps showing the film's age. "},{"Title":"An example of turning the other cheek in reverse...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***Non-specific spoilers of the back of the video box variety***Two men already under pressure meet in a way that increases that pressure.Follow two men through a day of decisions that we can (from the safety and comfort of our couches) see are typically the wrong decisions for reasonable beings but as the day progresses they begin to reason less and less. This could easily have become a cross between War of The Roses and The Firm.Compared to War of The Roses, a movie in which no one ever regains their senses - but in a believable fashion this movie not only brings both characters back to their senses but it also shows characters that have grown (though in unexpected ways).Compared to The Firm, a lawyer who gets in where he doesn't want to be - though in this movie the place he gets isn't quite as deep and though there is some legal problem most of his problem is ethics.This isn't a clean-cut ending where everyone lives happily ever after but it is life.There aren't any massive highs in this movie (it's not really an action movie no matter what the previews might imply) and there are some places where the movie tends to be slow...Ratings  believability - 8 (if Affleck's character had been older this would have been less believable); flow - 5; depth - 7 (you have to be willing to watch the whole movie to find all of the depth in these characters); overall value - 7. "},{"Title":"Ending ruins decent film","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not sure I can recommend this film. The payoff doesn't live up to the set-up. Fine acting by Jackson and Affleck. The supporting cast was decent too. The feud between the two men after a fender-bender escalates rapidly but seems resolved too quickly. After the film goes to great lengths to portray them as flawed both men suddenly contract a case of morality. And the Hollywood ending reduces this potentially good film to a trite disappointment.Bears some resemblance to Falling Down, although not as original or hard-hitting in the end.  "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but you get something out of it, definitely.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Basically, I share the opinion of a local newspaper in my town for a Hollywood movie to tell a story about two very real people, two all the more everyday-people as their lives and consciences are neither pure nor desperately soiled, AND getting through it quite decntly - well, that's something.I also will agree on a couple of things said by mattymatt4ever (now that's a long screen-name to type) Jackson is just a-ma-zing, maybe I've never seen him that good, because it's so far from his accustomed turf. I can't stand Ben Affleck, but he deserves a little credit here, though I can't help thinking he just lacks presence. Maybe it serves his character, ok. Haven't checked from where I know her, but definitely Amanda Peet does make a moment out that dinner. Which, now I think about it, is one of the few better filmed sequences. Yeah, I can hear screams... but I thought the photography was terrible. Boring or distracting (those hand-held cameras made me sea-sick, although I can understand they where intended to induce life, nervousness, stress. Just doesn't work, for me). And the the film just barely makes it across, because there's not a lot of inspiration in the direction either. I rarely think that - and sometimes it can serve the plot - but that's tv-movie in Panavision.God, I was so glad to see William Hurt who is such a marvelleous actor. Please, you people who can, give him some part worth of him!!!So bottom line go see it, there ARE ideas in there to make you think.And take a moment to read the review by mattymatt4ever which inspired mine and who'll get a copy. "},{"Title":"Was it really only 99 mins long?","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having just seen the movie I came out of the cinema thinking 'Changing Lanes' was a movie I could easily forget.Unfortuately, prior to watching I wasn't quite sure what to expect, and the impression I got from the few reviews that I'd read was that this was a movie about road rage.  Road rage?  Not really - two men (Ben Affleck & Samuel L. Jackson) are both on their way to the same location, a court house, and both are eager to get there in a hurry.  A car crash involving both men results in a kind of rage that has nothing to do with roads!So much happens in the story that you almost forget that this is set in one day (bar the ending).  Yes, it's a long day for Ben Affleck & Samuel L. Jackson, but it'll feel even longer for you if you decided to see this. 99 minutes will seem like a week!   "},{"Title":"Should have changed from the middle to the fast lane.","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films that could really benefit from getting 30 minutes lopped off. The story begins well, progresses well, begins to stutter a little... then the ending is a little slow.Nevertheless, you won't feel cheated if you see this film. While it doesn't have the pace, action, humour, or depth of Falling Down, it is still a diverting and mildly (putting it charitably) thought provoking film. There are excellent performances as usual from Jackson and Collette, and even Affleck is slightly better than usual (although that isn't saying much).The engaging story is a good payoff for the moments of boredom. If there's one area which really doesn't stand up to scrutiny, it's the advocation that not all lawyers are devoid of morals. As a lawyer, I can assure everyone that this notion is a complete fiction - believe me.Rating - 7/10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing Yet Poignant.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Disturbing morality tale that puts Ben Affleck against Samuel L Jackson over a car crash that makes both their lives miserable during the course of one fateful day. It's a Poignant tale that preaches the humanity of man, the myth of humility and what man would stoop to in order to get even. It's a gratifying tale and it does deliver the goods. I finally have respect for Ben Affleck.  "},{"Title":"A psychological drama mismarketed as car chase","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the film aboard the QE2, not in a theatre, because the trailer gave me absolutely the wrong impression of what the film is about. The trailer showed only cars banging into one another and physical violence. The film is actually about two men whose lives are thrown into collisions and as a result each man undergoes a moral conversion. One can almost say. a religious conversion in the case of the one character(Ben A.), since he goes through the process of reconciliation, from examination of conscience to confession(involving as part of the symbolism) a real priest and restitution  and personal reconciliation with the other character. The other character(Samuel  J.) gets a whole new look at his own personality and the underlying basis of his alcoholism.  All this is done while maintaining a fast pace--all the action talks place in one day, and against the unflatteringly amoral  background of modern law and commerce.The ending is trite, which detracts from the whole, and according to Michell is what the studio wanted.  "}{"Title":"Excellent Commentary on the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The character of Gavin Banek plays out the role of the both aggressiveness and humanistic Israel's actions to live in the politically created state of Israel, while Samuel L. Jackson as Doyle Gipson is wonderful as Palestine.Through script work - which mirrors the real-life conflict in its elements of the quixotic, Changing Lanes begins the history of the Middle East conflict recreated as two regular joe's with outward aggression and their own inner conflicts on the streets of New York.A massively important work, with an outcome that - if it is the writer and director's will to predict a future - would begin to create a world we'd all want to live in.  "},{"Title":"Ben and Samuel Deliver","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was excellent from start to finish. Ben and Samuel provide a tug of power as you dont know which side to take or who is the good guy who is the bad guy. the plot moves fast and furiously and if you dont pay attention in the first few minutes you wont know whats happened.Worth watching  "},{"Title":"Watchable but somewhat of an anitclimax","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The lives of two contrasting New Yorker's cross after a fender-bender. Samuel Johnson plays a man down on his luck and Ben Afleck plays a high power lawyer - both have terrible tempers. While you don't feel sorry for either of them, their reactions to each other's knocks do get a little rediculous. The movie is watchable, and doesn't suffer from an over-dramatic holywood climax, but don't expect any clever twists either.  "},{"Title":"To do the next right thing","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like movies with a point, and in Changing Lanes the point is ethics. The two main characters Gavin Banek (Affleck) and Doyle Gibson (Jackson) are both, deep inside, good people; but when they're put to fight each other, they seem to have no limits to get what they want and they become authentic criminals.The movie shows two very different men the successful young lawyer and the almost-broke guy in his 40's. One has pretty much what anyone would ever want and the other one is struggling to keep the little he has not yet lost, his children. After a car accident, they have control on each other's life, playing dangerously with what is more precious to them.The story simply states that if things would've been done right from the beginning, a lot of problems could have been avoided. Instead, as the film goes on, they feel pushed to doing some serious harm in order to get back what belongs to each one. It's in the middle of this open war that both characters begin to realize that perhaps they don't deserve (or want) the elements of their life they're defending a job for one of them; a family for the other. This movie reminded me a lot of Michael Douglas' Falling Down, in which the character also feels pushed over the edge to make things go right.Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck are both good actors and their performances in Changing Lanes are not disappointing at all. I said it before and I say it again Affleck is better off in a supporting role; this movie proves my theory. I specially liked the film editing; it delivers the stressful, fast paced, crowded feeling the movie needed.To do things right, that's what the movie is all about. And in a world of lost values, it's a concept many of us should embrace. "},{"Title":"If Ben's character was any other type of guy...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers It just didn't work for me that a lawyer would allow this thing to go on like it did, much less start. He was a bigshot, he couldn't have gotten that position as a partner without having SOMETHING going for him, besides marrying the boss's daughter. Even I'm smarter and quicker on my feet than he appeared to be. As soon as he realized there was resistance from the SLJ character, he should have tried immediately to get to the root of the person's problem. Bing-o! You have a half hour tv show with Ben's character getting Sam's kids back, rather then this lecture about morals and such. I think that at the point when Doyle wanted his twenty minutes back, the lawyer should have dug deeper into what that meant rather than bleating like a sheep, please gimme my file back.I did kind of enjoy the movie a bit, it was a little suspenseful and entertaining, but again, much like the beginning, the end caved in for me. If he wasn't slick enough to get the file back immediately, there is just NO WAY he could convince SLJ characters wife to do what she did in such a short period of time. "},{"Title":"What was this?","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I mean i can't say i liked it but i watched it to the end. I think this movie has no primary action. It is about that file and all the action takes control around it. But at the end it is so wierd cause a lot of confusing words are told and i don't get the meaning of the movie.By me i say only watch this movie if you have really nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Simplistic treatment of complicated issues.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good subject, with an ethical premise - the need to take responsibility for the consequences of one's actions - is given at best two-dimensional treatment in Changing Lanes.  Stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson are never able to breathe convincing life into their stereotyped characters, and much of what they have to play is ludicrous.  Favorite scene Jackson destroys a computer in the bank he's gone to to clear his credit and there isn't a security guard to stop him before he leaves.  Huh?  Secondary characters are mostly one-note, although Toni Collette, Dylan Baker and especially Kim Staunton are to be commended for their well-rounded performances.  Even potentially impressive NY location photography is muted by hyper and unflattering camera work.  Don't bother with this one unless you feel like Changing Channels. "},{"Title":"At the end of the day, have you done more good than harm?   (father-in-law)","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" some SPOILERS - Changing lanes gets off to a very good start. The camera cuts back and forth between two worlds. In one we have a successful young law partner (Ben Affleck), working for his father-in-law, they always operate on the edge of morality and legality, sometimes crossing over, while doing good within the community. His wife (Amanda Peet) understands and accepts that. In the other we have a recovering alcoholic father (Sam Jackson) who is also battling to keep his wife and 2 sons from moving to Oregon, trying to secure a loan to buy his very first house, so they can have a home and stay in NYC, and perhaps become a family again.As both protagonists are on the freeway into the city, the lawyer changes lanes into the father, causing an accident that also disables the other car. Late for a very important court date, the lawyer gives a signed blank check and says I've got to go, here this will take care of everything. Better luck next time. Well, this causes the father to be late for his court appointment for a custody hearing, and he thinks his sons are headed for Oregon.All this sets up great possibilities that the writer and director end up fumbling, for the most part. The lawyer forgets the critical file, a signed power of attorney from a deceased client that would give his firm $$millions in management fees of a non-profit fund. The two protagonists take turns causing the other much grief. In the end the father gets his loan, we see signs that he will become a better man and his family will be re-united. And, the lawyer recovers the original power of attorney, after the firm filed a forged one, and holds that over them to return the ill-begotten $$millions. Basically internal blackmail. So, is he a better person, or does he just get revenge? A pretty good, and interesting, film, but could have been so much more. The second half plays out like virtually all other cross and double-cross films. Nothing new here. The DVD presentation is pleasant, but nothing special. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and ambitious","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Looking at Changing Lanes as a straight-ahead thriller, it falls apart. The plot depends on so many improbable coincidences, that this film should probably regarded as some kind of urban fantasy.As a commentary on black/white relations, and as a look at men in general, it isn't too bad.One thing struck me in the initial exchange between Affleck's Gavin and Jackson's Doyle Gavin doesn't want to take the time to do things right, he just figures he can throw a blank check at the problem and drive away.In a later scene, Jackson is talking with a couple of advertising guys in a bar, describing his idea of the perfect commercial featuring Tiger Woods. The scene doesn't seem closely connected to the story, until you consider it as a comment on how blacks (and many other minorities) are treated in the media.The film is filled with many other rather clever comments, and part of their power is that the viewer isn't hit over the head with them.This is a smart movie that made me think of Lawrence Kasdan's GRAND CANYON, and Michael Douglas' FALLING DOWN. "},{"Title":"A high-gear character study","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The trailers in the theatre mislead me;I thought this was about a smash up, one-on-one bang fest.  I let it go and rented it just this evening.  An excellent film about two very flawed, very human beings who are brought together to seemingly destroy themselves and each other.  What is good? What is evil?  How do we lead a good life in a world that rewards evil at every turn? How do we take responsibility for the things we do?  How do we make amends? Big, big questions. Excellent performances by every one involved.  I at first found the ending a little too feel good, but what the hell...I want to believe in personal redemption! "}{"Title":"Not quite what I expected","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected this movie to be both men going straight at each other but they hardly ever do, however they to each other by different means, they go back and forth messing with each other in a game of sorts. The two men meet by having a small car accident which is Ben's fault, however he's in too much of a hurry to get out the insurance and do things the right way so he just gives Jackson a blank check and rides off, however he leaves a very important document which makes sure him and his co-workers don't go to jail. But he also caused Jackson's car to break down causing him to miss his date in court which nearly lost him his wife and children. This is a pretty good movie, not exactly what I thought it would be but still not bad at all. I didn't particularly care for the ending, but to be honest most movie endings kinda suck anyways. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good movie, but....","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERI thought it was a well done movie.  But one thing just struck me as rather odd.  When Ben Affleck is presented with the option of creating a copy of the lost document using the signature page from a will, he declines, saying it would be unethical, and a fraud on the court.  True enough, even though the intent of the signer was to have the words on that document executed, not that specific document.  Regardless, he has ethical misgivings.  But when it comes time for Affleck to decide whether to destroy Samuel's life by shutting down his credit and whatnot, he barely blinks an eye.  This may have been intentional, but even so, it made for a very inconsistent character.  The only thing I can think is that they wanted to use the clever idea of the signature page, but also keep the movie going.  "},{"Title":"Nothing Oscar-worthy or surprising, but entertaining and watchable.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If your looking for truly original plot twists and top-notch dialogue... look somewhere else!  Changing Lanes does deliver on a lower level though. High enough on that subterranean level so it's at least worth watching.  I got my ticket paid for, so I guess just about anything is worth that.  If I'd paid eight bucks to see it I may have wished it was a renter, but I'll give it medium approval.  It could have really been much better.  In the end they want to trick you into thinking that these two psychos have some redeeming qualities, but they don't.  They really are d**ks.  The writers make these guys go so far between extremes you can almost be fooled into allowing some redemption, but because they always revert to over-the-top revenge tactics I didn't find myself thinking that I'd want either of them as buddies when to movie was over.  And that's what it was; a movie.  Not a film, or a picture... just a watchable movie.   "},{"Title":"Superb acting makes this a compelling drama","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck light up the screen in the throughly engrossing Changing Lanes.  Don't be tricked into thinking this is a thriller.  If you're looking for murder, blood, and action look elsewhere.  Jackson is one of the best actors working today and when he gets mad (Pulp Fiction, A Time to Kill, Shaft) you better look out because somebody's gonna get hurt.  That somebody is good ol' Affleck who leaves the scene of their accident saying the ominous words Better Luck next time!  What makes this movie work is the supreme performances by the entire cast.  Jackson, Affleck (who reminds me of a young Michael Douglas because he's great at playing cocky Wall Street types), Toni Collete, Amanda Peet and the entire cast shine.  I was especially impressed with Peet (loved her in the Whole Nine Yards) who had only a small amount of screen time but was powerful nonetheless.  This movie worked for me because it's a character study.  It's about how everyday people react when faced with moral dilemmas.  The only letdown was the ending which seemed as if it was pulled out of thin air.  It didn't make sense and was an unworthy conclusion to the riveting events that took place before it.  8.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A very pleasant change to all the bad stuff!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this film 10/10. Maybe it doesn't quite deserve this - especially for the weak ending which was obviously put there to please the audience - but it's such a change to all the bad stuff that I've seen recently. I don't think Affleck is a very versatile actor, but he is VERY good in this film although parts of his character are quite similar to the guy he plays in The Sum of All Fears but how much more powerful does he come across here! Samuel L. Jackson is brilliant. And the story is very good - the characters have depth and it seems that Gavin Banek hasn't quite looked into the pits of his character. I wonder whether this is just like this in the film or also in the book. There's suspense and the plot twists and turns so you never quite know where it takes you. Only the happy end is quite predictable.I think the film should have stopped where the two men face each other. The ending really distracts from the real themes of the film finding meaning in life, justice, facing oneself and starting again, ... "},{"Title":"Its a nice entertainer","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Given a chance to think about what the movie is after youve read the story summary or the tagline; and you might wonder how effective can a story be weaved around some documents. Your mistaken. Of the 105 odd minutes, only the last 2 minutes is a kind of let down. The remaining time is riveting. Dont miss it. "},{"Title":"Decent drama, decent story","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in the last month, and overall, it was decent. Acting was fine, the story had its ups and downs, and Affleck and Jackson are strong actors in their field. I personally would not choose to purchase this movie, as it is the kind where you watch it once, and you're good for a long time. The commercials made it out to be a rampant car chase and suspenseful thriller movie, but it only peaks in action every so often. So, not a great action movie, but a decent drama. "},{"Title":"A well-done, thought-provoking drama","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is a true rarity  a mainstream Hollywood popcorn flick that actually dares the viewer to think.  After leaving the theater, you will want to take a serious look at your own life and ask the question Am I a good person?  Really?  But not to worry.  It also has the thrill of seeing Samuel L Jackson go ballistic (and who does it better?) and Ben Affleck *finally* plays a character who deserves to be socked in the nose as much as any right-thinking heterosexual male wants to sock Ben Affleck in the nose.The plot of the film is thus  down-on-his-luck insurance salesman Doyle Gipson (Jackson) and self-centered yuppie lawyer Gavin Banek (Affleck) crash into each other while both are on the way to court.  Doyle wants to do the right thing by exchanging insurance information, but Gavin just says I'm in a hurry.  Better luck next time,  and dashes off.  Big mistake.  Anyone who has ever seen Pulp Fiction, Shaft, or A Time to Kill knows you should never make a character played by Samuel L. Jackson mad.  Ever.  Under any circumstances.  As it happens, Gavin leaves an important document behind at the scene and Doyle picks it up.  When Jackson arrives at the courthouse, he loses visitation rights to visit his children because he was unavoidably late.  And when Affleck arrives in court, he is embarrassed because he doesn't have the document.And so it begins.  Gavin needs his document back, but Doyle is in no mood to give it to him.  So Gavin hires a computer hacker to ruin Doyle's credit so he can't buy the house he hopes to move his kids into.  And then. . .well, you'll have to see the movie to see just how far out of control things get.But beyond the war with each other, each man is at war with his own conscience and with the people closest to him.  Doyle is certain that he is right because he wanted to do the right thing at first, and that this ultimately comes down to his children.  But his ex-wife (why didn't I know who Kim Staunton was before now?), and his AA sponsor (William Hurt) tell him repeatedly that his own rage is the real problem, not Gavin.  Gavin feels bad about what he does to Doyle, but he doesn't see any way out if he wants to keep his position.  And the people who surround him at New York's Sleaziest Law Firm--his boss (Sydney Pollack), his ex-mistress (Toni Collette), and his wife (Amanda Peet)--insist he is a good person because he is a partner in a firm that gives money to children's charities and is opposed to the death penalty.  Plus, he makes lots of money for them.In the transition between the second and third acts, there are a lot of images of churches, praying, paintings of Jesus, and crosses.  I think director Roger Michell and writer Chap Taylor are saying that with the waning of Christianity as the primary factor in people's lives, we've lost our moral compass and let too much other stuff cloud the issue of right and wrong.  It makes the point, but doesn't sermonize.The acting is uniformly great.  Every actor I have mentioned so far in this review is deserving of an Oscar nomination for this film (but it was a spring release and the film wasn't a blockbuster, so fat chance).  And for the first time in eight years, Jackson wears a wig that looks like something that might actually grow from a human head (those of us who have seen The Red Violin know Jackson's real hair is nowhere near that thick or dark).The film does stretch credibility with the war of attrition and the fact that Gavin waits until he is almost thirty to ask himself if he is a good person (most of us started asking ourselves that at a much earlier age).But still, this is one of the most thoughtful movies I have seen in years, and certainly the best film of 2002 I have seen thus far (I haven't seen Minority Report, Insomnia or Road to Perdition yet, but I hope to soon).  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Hollywood film about moral ambiguity!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A rare mainstream Hollywood film about Moral Ambiguity - how rare, but refreshing. The typical studio picture is about characters who are good or evil, right or wrong, but CHANGING LANES dares to be about the shades of gray in between (of course, it took a British Director to accomplish this).  Though the film is not without it's extreme bits of behavior & action that aren't entirely credible (Ben Affleck's character literally goes straight from Catholic confessional into his most heinously immoral act in the entire story. Jackson's racial confrontation in the bar seems forced into the story arc.), CHANGING LANES is to be applauded for not taking the easy way out - I.E. Not deciding which of the two characters is 100% in the Right and proceeding from there. Only at the end, with it's somewhat simplistic and pat conclusion does the film lack some nerve (its not fatal however - and maybe I'm just too cynical myself to fully buy it). How rare for a film of this moral depth to go on to be a box office success (hopefully the studio heads noticed). Also, since the film's release it's quite amazing how the unscrupulous behavior of the lawyers (and the implied background of the Foundation benefactor) fits right into the Corporate Scandal headlines of today! "},{"Title":"An engrossing and intriguing character study","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although it was overshadowed by some big budget competition, Changing Lanes remains one of the standout films of the year. Powered by career defining performances by Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson, it looks at an unordinary day in the lives of two ordinary men at war with each other with unflinching reality. The pacing of the film is perfect as each man tries to screw over the other more than he himself was screwed over. The result is a captivating, brutally realistic film that never tries to sugarcoat or tread lightly on any situation it presents. This film, along with Falling Down, brilliantly demonstrates the consequences when the mild mannered common man is pushed beyond his limits by society and feels helpless to do anything about it. I highly recommend both these films and I would expect to see Changing Lanes mentioned come time for the Golden Globes and Academy Awards      9/10  "}{"Title":"Review #8","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, at first Changing Lanes just seems worthless, like a movie just trying to be as mean as it can be.But as the film progresses you begin to see it become a great movie. Ben is no longer the evil suit and Jackson the good normal man.No, we see them as equals just in different cultures. As they fight each other and every time one finally wants to come clean the other has upped the stakes and just keeps the cycle going, we see them realize. A lot like in Raging Bull, just not as powerful.We watch them as they begin to understand themselves for the first time and watch how they slowly become thankful for this day of chaos. They walk away in a joyful sorrow, filled with understanding of what comes next.The only knocks on this movie is the fact it is anti climatic and that keeps me giving it a 10. It really stole some of the punch for me personally when it went on to make it a little too happy endings. But I give this movie a 9 out of 10, greatness. "},{"Title":"good acting and direction makes up for plot holes on the FDR","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is refreshing to come across a major American release that tells an involving story about people caught in a sudden moral dilemma and then follows through with a fairly reasonable facsimile to human behavior if not a totally realistic solution to the plot's initial set up.A minor fender bender on NY City's FDR Drive starts a tumultuous chain of events involving a young up and coming attorney on his way to court to wrap up a less than honest estate settlement and a harried father on his way to the same courthouse to battle for custody rights of his children. If one can get past the overly schematic script then this film works fairly well as a modern day story of deceit, greed and ultimately (although not very convincingly) of redemption.Director Roger Michell, whose last project was the entertaining romantic comedy NOTTING HILL, does a complete turn-around here, giving the viewer a harsh, overcast look to the city (albeit effectively photographed by Salvatore Totino) and keeping the audience fully involved for the nearly hour and forty minute running time. Ben Affleck gives his best performance hands down, eschewing the simpering mannerisms that marred his performance in PEARL HARBOR. His Gavin Banek (who thinks up these names?!) is a real person, both attractive and vulnerable, and watching Affleck with all his human foibles encountering each situation is a revelation; this movie puts him on the map as a first class film actor. Samuel L. Jackson matches Affleck every step of the way as Doyle Gibson, a much beleaguered man just barely coping with the quandaries he finds himself in. Mention must also be made of Tony Collette, a remarkable young actress (THE SIXTH SENSE) who plays a co- worker in Affleck's law firm; she is virtually unrecognizable from role to role ,a chameleon-like ability that should ensure great character parts in the future. Rounding out the cast is director/sometimes actor Sydney Pollack,superb as Affleck's unscrupulous, tough as nails father-in -law. CHANGING LANES doesn't always work as convincing drama, but good acting and direction makes it stand out among recent releases. "},{"Title":"Ethics Review","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie did an excellent job of examining the ethics (or lack thereof) of all of the characters, therefore forcing the viewer to review their own code of ethics.The viewer constantly is faced with the question of What would I do if I were in this situation? I even found myself revisiting previous decisions in my own life, and taking a fresh look at current ones!Not many movies today go beyond the superficial in reviewing the ethics and motivation of it's characters, but Changing Lanes does, and with skill.I highly recommend this movie. Excellent performances by all the actors (especially Affleck, Jackson, and Pollack), and outstanding writing and directing, make this film a must see. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck is a young coporate lawyer working on Wall Street.  Samuel Jackson is a recovering alcoholic trying to get his family life back together.  Both are to meet separatly for important court dates, Jackson to meet for a divorce proceeding to save his marriage, Affleck to hand over a court document that gives control of a dying mans wealthy organization to some important people.Both men come with their own sets of problems (which I won't spoil), and are unlikely participants in a fender bender getting to court.  Both are civil in their mistakes, but once Affleck realises he is getting late, he quickly hastes off leaving Jackson a blank check.  But as Affleck speeds off simply saying 'Better off next time', he arrives in court and then discovers that the document is missing.  Meanwhile Jackson ends up late for his appearance, and looses custody of his kids, but has gained Affleck's document.It seems now you have the setup for a corny cat and mouse chase.  But far from it.  Changing Lanes is a look into the psyche of two VERY flawed individuals and how a freak incident forces them to look at their own lives.  The movie could go for a straight right vs wrong approach and vigilante stupidity, but its moral compass is far more complex than the viewer is lead to believe and forces you to engage your mind.  The film is also peppered with great scenes and wonderfully acted.  Jackson at one point ends up at a bar after the accident, orders a drink, but only contemplates drinking it as it stares him in the face.  It's a great shot too of bourbon and the direction-cinematography is very 'in your face' with hand-held action and gloomy skies.Here's to a great looking film that peers into the ideals and thoughts of the human condition.  First great Hollywood film of the year!Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very cool","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck were awesome in this movie about lying and screwing up your enemy.  Sammy is playing a divorced father who is on his way to to take custody while he gets in a fender-bender with Ben Affleck, a lawyer who is on his way to deliver files to his father-in-law.  Ben Affleck leaves Sammy screwed up and also leaves his files with Sammy who decides for revenge.  The movie goes on and they start to screw each other up but it is very entertaining.  The only problem was when one character puts innocent bystanders in danger when trying to hurt the other character.Overall the performances were perfect and I enjoyed them all the way through.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Are there any legal plot lines left?","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Have all the legal plot lines been used up?  There are a LOT of lawyer films.  This script is about a lawyer who LOSES A CASE FILE.  oooooh, too exciting!  What makes it wonderful, and well worth seeing is that Ben Affleck is cute, cute CUTE, CUTE!   We see Ben smart alecky, Ben embarrassed, Ben as a jerk, Ben being kind, Ben being sexy, Ben all wet under a fire sprinkler system, and we even see the now-trademark, once-every-Affleck-film BEN CRYING!  Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"a fair film depicting rage, vindication and remorse","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Following a car accident Ben A is desperate to retrieve an important file from Samuel J which could clear him from possible fraud charges whilst Samuel J struggles to bring sanity to his crumbling marriage. The film focuses on the two embittered individuals locked in battle whilst focusing on the problems in their daily lives. The cinematography in some instances tries to mimic the movie 'Traffic' to give it a documentary feel and to make the events appear more real. Samuel J is perfectly suited for this role where rage and sensibilities work hand in hand as noticed by his recent movies like &#145;Shaft'. Ben A doesn't deliver the same dynamic performance as Samuel J but his role as an insecure and almost helpless lawyer seems to be a good fit. Although the film does go through interesting twists and turns and keeps the audience engaged the overall film conveys a less believable story with a lackluster feel. Some engaging moments for teaching us the morale issues of life but altogether an average film. "},{"Title":"The ugly side lives deep down inside of all of us.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thoughtful and semi-violent thriller for everyone who enjoys solid stories. The real reason why I dug this movie is because it's real. It's not filled with with typical Hollywood bulls*** and killings. Believe it or not, this movie has no killings. Sorry if I'm spoiling it a bit, but I had to throw that in. A dark dramatic tale of a nobody and a somebody. You can make your own opinion on who is who, after the movie you'll realize that they're both pretty much the same in one way or another.We have Ben Affleck (Dogma, Pearl Harbor) and Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp Fiction, Unbreakable, Shaft) a raging alcoholic trying to save himself and his family (Jackson) and Affleck, a newbie lawyer who is getting a real taste of justice and fraud from the inside of his own office and from his partners. The movie circles around a one day's event. What an event that is. Could it happen in real life? Of course. I don't see why not. It's perfectly normal that this kind of thing could happen to anyone on the street. These two had no reason to meet, but when business is your first priority and manners last, you're bound to get something f***ed up. The whole movie is basically Jackson vs Affleck, Affleck vs Jackson and Affleck vs reality and the truth. The war of threats and withdrawals never seemed longer. Just when you think the movie is about to end, it takes a sharp turn and adds another twist to the story. Tied up between what is right and what should be right, both characters awaken the worst out of both of them. It's one of life's greatest mysteries. The fact that we all have a demon inside of us waiting to be awaken. This movie did just that to both of the characters, and we quickly see how an honest man can turn into something utterly different in a matter of moments.Was the movie dry at all? Surprisingly not one bit. Every scene was crucial to the movie, you couldn't help but keep guessing what will happen next. Was the ending good? Yes and no, more yes than no actually. I myself, was looking for a more dramatic ending, but what I got was semi-dramatic. Still cool though. I was absolutely amazed by Samuel L. Jacksons performance, I've been a long fan of him but this movie showed his true acting skills. He was absolutely amazing. Affleck also did a good job, he's currently spamming the Hollywood with new movie (DareDevil, Sum Of All Fears) all bound to be hit movies. We also have Toni Collette (The Sixth Sense) as Affleck's secretary/lover. A somewhat important character in the film but not the story doesn't circle around her as much as it does around the two main actors. I think there is more to this movie than it's given on the screen. Sure it's a fun movie to watch, but what is really the real massage in it? Don't misuse the power of communication? In a heated moment don't try to rush anything, just take it easy? Whatever it might be, this movie will appeal to everyone who is interested in dramas and thrillers. 2002 Mirza Causevic mizi "},{"Title":"Where is humanity?","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited about going to this movie, thinking it was going to be... action?  I came out of the theater wondering where humanity has gone.  A guy does something bad to another guy.  That guy does something bad to the first guy.  The first guy does something bad to the second guy...basically that's the movie for the first...well let's just say, it wasn't until about the last 3 minutes of the film that it finally turned itself around.   "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD, ALTHOUGH A BIT UNBELIEVABLE","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Changing Lanes for its gutsy, dramatic edge.  It's well paced, well acted and well shot.  Only problem is that certain incidents are simply not likely to happen - either in this world or the next.  I won't go into detail so as not to spoil your fun; suffice it to say that I would have rated it excellent if the writers' imaginations had been subjected to a minor reality check before being crystallized into a script. "}{"Title":"Overall a good movie, but kind of hard to believe...(7 of 10)","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***possible spoilers*** this movie was an overall solid film, with big name players.  it's about two men who's lives are negatively affected time and time again throughout this one long day beginning with a car crash on the FDR.  the movie has a good plot and delivers a solid moral message, but it seems quite odd that time and time again throughout the movie, when either Ben Affleck's character is trying to be nice and do the right thing Samuel L. Jackson's character has flipped his lid and is on a tangent for revenge, or vice versa.  I could see how this can happen a few times, but over and over in this movie, they keep taking turns being the mean guy or the nice guy, which gets old after a while.overall rating 7 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Literary themes, religious themes...A definite renter when it comes out...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a big fan of Ben Affleck, in fact, I think he is an overrated, albeit sexy teenybopper; Samuel L. Jackson, however, is a star, and is always a pleasure to view on the screen.  The movie was not spectacular, but I have awarded it an eight because it was well written.  It hit on many `old world' literary themes, avoiding a typically secular plot, and steered toward involving a spiritual aspect to the mix.Indeed the movie was filled with clichs and typically mundane `parlor games' which have become all too common in Roger Michell's movies.  I do, however, recommend this movie to those who are interested in the semi-religious thematic models of the film industry, or who are well read and appreciate strong literary talent, and definitely to people with a thing for good camera work.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck.  Samuel L.  Car wreck.  Action trailer.  Sounds like another mindless thriller shot out by the studios.I was wrong.  The entire plot sounded like a bad dramatic plot.  But the psychological road trip this took me on was not only impressive, but entertaining.It wasn't cinematic brilliance, but at least it wasn't Gladiator.  The tailspins encountered were Hollywood-esque but with a real depection of humanity.Although the realism psychologically is correct, chronologically it was a little much for one day.  I would have rather seen this as a week, or in real time as a TV mini-series.Either way, it was worth my $8, and is definitely worth yours as well. "},{"Title":"Running on fumes. At least a half tank short of solid drama","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Admirable intentions and tasteful restraint--imagine an American drama free of any on-screen sex, titillation, violence or even blood! But as with most American mass-market concepts, 'Lanes' absolutely strains credulity in story turns and character development. Excess still prevails and incidents provoke viewer laughter when they aim for riveting belief. Audience wants to like and embrace of all of this, but the direction & script make it impossible as does Affleck's empathetic yet lightweight portrayal. Toni Collette, usually so effective, is the weakest linchpin of all, while Amanda Peet surprises with her brief but compelling major scene. And why is Collette allowed to look so awful? She literally looks ill.The ending surpasses the quality of most of the proceeding, but...why does it start to rain again?!   "},{"Title":"Excellent Film For Adults","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow.  A film about how easy it is to begin the slippery slope downward into barbaric and downright evil behavior.  People tend to think of good and evil in black and white terms, as if people who do bad things must be bad people to begin with.  Instead, this film shows how the stresses of life that people go through, as well as the morally shaky things that we do everyday, keep adding up over the years, until it   builds a callous around our hearts.  At that point, it's back to every man for himself.  We justify our own selfish and greedy behavior by pointing out that others do it (even if they don't) and try to rationalize actions that would shock us if we observed them in other people.  What's even more amazing is that the film actually stops before going over the top, hollywood-style.  No blown up buildings, or slaughterhouse shooting sprees.  The most chilling scene in the movie, in my opinion, is when the lawyer's wife calmly tells her husband to accept his corrupt lot in life and do what any Wall Street lawyer would do.  One can easily envision her in another time and place telling someone to pull the lever on a gas chamber or incinerator, because, after all, that's the way the world is.The thinking adults on-screen finally come to their senses, allowing thinking adults in the audience to come away with a positive message and ending, and maybe probing some of their own past actions.This is a VERY good film, with excellent performances!  I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Excellent, Except for the 11th Tradition","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  excellent acting, cinematography, characters. realistic road rage mentality. the only thing that bothered me was the total disregard for the 11th tradition. if you are a friend of Bill's, you will understand. Had I known about this angle I would have chosen not to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Far fetched at times, but overall- very good","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, Changing Lanes is overall an entertaining movie with some minor flaws.  The negatives- the two main characters just happen to keep running into each other in a city of millions (NYC)&#133;and they keep finding each other so easily (Samuel L. Jackson somehow gets Affleck's cellular phone number and calls him constantly.)  Also on the bad side is the fact that the movie is a tad drawn out and a bit slow in some parts.  The positives outweigh those bad aspects of the film tho.  The acting is good, the story is entertaining, and at the end of the movie- there is a nice lesson and all is well.  I won't go into the story&#133;you can read the summary on this site or a million others&#133;I will just say, it is an uplifting film with its message of good over evil.  In the end, good does win&#133;not by much, but it does indeed overpower evil.  Affleck is enjoyable as a bad guy turned good&#133;and Jackson is just plain good either way.  The direction is a bit dizzying at times (camera movements that are much too fast for film, and a lot jarring motion on some of the scenic shots filmed from the cars,) and other than that bit, there's nothing exciting about the direction.  The story is strong enough to make up for the lack of cinematic vision or what have you.  Good film, I would highly recommend. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Decent but ending ruins movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS* This movie had me fascinated through the first hour.  It takes a look at human nature and the apathy that people have towards each other.  The main characters are basically good people with bad flaws.  They are victims of circumstances and their own bad judgements.  This movie was a good idea.  However, throwing in unneeded racial overtones and then a silly happy ending seemed to unrealistic based on the characters previous actions.  The movie still has some redeeming value if you can overlook the flaws.This morality tale gets 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Day of Chaos!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes was a good movie, but I would say that watching this movie was like watching a typical business movie with Ben Affleck. I say this because it seems like every time we want to go see Ben Affleck on the big screen, he does the same type of role. And a good example of a role like this would be seeing him in Boiler Room. And it always seems like Samuel L. Jackson continues with his crazy character roles like the way he did with Pulp Fiction, Die Hard 3, The Caveman's Valentine.When Wall Street lawyer Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) ends up in a mild car accident with former alcoholic Derek Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson), his life is put at stake because they exchange insurance information which leads to Gavin losing an important file for a case where he will legaly steal money from someone. Gavin discovers that Derek is holding the file and will keep it under circumstances. Derek's day is hard enough because he has been trying to win his wife and sons back in court. So what happens is, Gavin and Derek mess with each other in life threatening situations until they can come to a deal for Gavin to get the file back which is like a big battle considering the movie takes place through the course of one long day.Ben Affleck (Chasing Amy, Stolen Summer), Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp Fiction, Attack of the Clones).This movie did have the advantages of suspense and it was very well written. Still though, it didn't meet the standards of a four star movie. So I would just give it 3 out of 4 stars. If you are looking to see this movie, I would recommend that you see it because I wouldn't want to ruin your time and excitement just by this review. Go see Changing Lanes and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood jewel","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Behind (or maybe in place of) what the trailer advertises - anexciting thriller about an escalation of violence triggered by a minorcar accident involving two high-strung men - is a far-reachingportrait of two men, or maybe just of men, in their daily choicesand shifts between good and evil. The impeccable acting outlinesa subtle, well-balanced script which touches (ever so slightly) on avariety of subjects involving fate and guilt, revenge andacceptance, miscommunication and mischief, loyalty andhonesty... all neatly wrapped up in an otherwise unobtrusive,apparently formulaic story of men getting even.Go see it with an open mind and you're in for a really goodsurprise. "}{"Title":"Keeps your attention!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie goes much deeper than two guys trying to destroy each other's lives.  It follows the lives of the main characters very well.  Ben Affleck was very good as a lawyer fighting with his morals and Samuel L. Jackson is good (as always)as a struggling father.  Overall, the film is able to keep your attention for the entire time, which is not often these days. "},{"Title":"Tale of Two Totally Unstable Men","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is ridiculous! Both characters have serious emotional problems and only care about themselves (even in the end). This movie's plot makes soap operas seem realistic.SPOILER ALERT...I've had bad days where a stranger has indirectly affected the outcome (maybe not to the extent of this, but it does happen to all of us). It's unfortunate that these guys influence each other's lives in the way that they do, but NEITHER will take any responsibility for the consequences. The result is that they mess with each other to compensate(destroying family relationships, careers, financial histories, even attempted murder...some people see Samuel L. Jackson as the better of the two, but have they forgotten that he basically attempted to murder Ben Affleck when he sabotaged his car??? And the way he followed him? He's psychotic!)I guess the moral is that we should take the time to be decent human beings and this kind of stuff won't happen, but I would've accepted that better if the consequences fit the actions. Of course, we got a typical Hollywood ending that defeats the whole purpose of the film. Everything works out in the end, so maybe we should be jerks. And are these guys redeemed because they learned their lesson?? No, the only reason for their redemption is that they have nowhere else to go or nothing left to destroy. But wait, as I said they get everything back in the end -- lucky them! I'm surprised that they could they trust each other after all that has happened. It would have been more realistic if one would've killed the other because both characters are so deranged. Whatever!! I hated this movie and this is the last time I ever have to think of it. "},{"Title":"Great morality tale - not for those with ADD","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Agree with many others that this film was woefully marketed.  On the other hand, it's actually a good thing because reading through half these reviews on imdb.com it becomes glaringly obvious that Joe and Jane Sixpack American Moviegoer no longer want to think at the theater -- they need everything spoonfed to them in nice tasty bites.  And keep it coming quick and fast!  No slow scenes please (some people wouldn't know the meaning of drama if it bit them on the butt; drama is conflict folks, and there was plenty of conflict in this story, not only between the two leads, but other characters as well). Having said all that, when I read Variety's review comparing CHANGING LANES to Paddy Chayefsky's best work, I knew I had to see it.  And while it's note quite THAT good (NETWORK rocks!), there's too much great stuff in here to pass up.  This is a story about choices and how those choices reflect how we choose to live our lives.  I liked that the movie got that theme across without being overtly sentimental or preachy.  The only negative for me was that the ending rang hollow, and Affleck's character arc was not totally convincing -- there's no way someone could have that change of heart in just one day, esp. in a day where he was almost killed (I'm not giving away anything that wasn't shown in the trailer here).Go see it. "},{"Title":"Gripping","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the tension.  For a good hour and 20 minutesI was sucked in.  Affleck and Jackson were flawless in my opinion. Ben is especially gorgeous in this film (not that it has anything todo with the rest of the movie, but it was a treat just looking at him ) I would have given it a 10, but the ending left me cold.  Anothertypical cheesy unoriginal FIN. "},{"Title":"good premise, ok acting, awful script","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall this thing was a stinker. It brings up great issues then leaves them alone. What do good people do in bad moments? How does that steer their life's direction, for better or worse? Can we go back and change our mistakes?I was wishing that better writers had tackled it, because it was just plain silly in the execution. I rate the choice of scripts as better than what B.A. has been doing lately but as for Samuel Jackson, his track record of pretty darn good movies makes me wonder what he was thinking when he accepted this.Good points Amanda Peet as the creepy rich wife of B.A. and Sydney Pollack as his creepy boss/father in law.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie honestly, intelligently, and carefully deals with tough issues (i.e. class and race) in a way that we almost never get to see in film.  I have not been so moved by a film so compelling since Set It Off.  Thought provoking and powerful; this is why I go to the movies.  By far, this is better than anything that came out in 2001.  If this is the beginning of the year, I cannot wait to see what is in store for the end. "},{"Title":"Beyond the problems of average life.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson perform together good in Changing Lanes. Affleck plays a lawyer and Jackson plays somebody who works for insurance company. Suddenly fate happens that they meet during a car crush. Their problems are just beginning. It dives beyond the problems, but not be to superficial. Just being real about them. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"A good story with solid acting, slow moving, and way overrated.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I am not a Ben Affleck fan, but after this movie I like him quite a bit more, his emotional reactions are less 'wooden' than in his previous movies. Kudos again to Sydney Polack, this guy shows up only 5 or 10 minutes in a movie, and when he does he gets all your attention no matter what his character is doing. The problem with the movie is that it starts at a good rhythm and then it slows way down. Basically the plot boxes the characters since we are just caught in an action/reaction game. A was pleasantly surprise with the actress that plays Jackson's wife. She was great, I have never seen her before. Expect to see more of her after this movie. "},{"Title":"A film that should be seen by everyone...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from seeing CHANGING LANES, and I am very happy that a film like this actually got made.  For once, we get a chance to see a film that shows the consequences of greed and selfish ambition.  The film could have ended with the two men and their lives in total disarray, but instead, this is where the film has its guts.  The ending (without giving it away) is excellent in going one step further that most films do not. It shows how much good can be done by being unselfish and helping out people in need, instead of ending on a sad note without any closure other than a sense of depression. GOODFELLAS, CASINO, FIGHT CLUB, etc..are all great films except they do not have a positive ending. I think that the whole 1950-cheesy-help people out-ending can be done in a modern and effective way and it is a shame that most films do not employ this message.  Thankfully, we have CHANGING LANES which has a positive ending without being overdone.  Kudos to the director and crew of this film for trying to make a difference and giving something positive and meaningful to the audience. "},{"Title":"just missed....","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie looked very promising. two normal guys getting into trouble with each other and are getting sucked into the conflict deeper and deeper. Technicaly it is a good movie. It has a good story line and has been shot in a terrific way. Ben and Samuel make a good performance. There are two flaws however. first the movies fails to make you sympathize with either Ben or Samuel, with the result that you don't experience the movie as if you were there and it was happening to somebody you liked. And second the movie is BORING!!!!!! Only fews things really happen the rest of the time is just talking. not that a movie needds a lot of action but if one focusses one something else this has to entertain the audience with catching dialogue. This is definately not the case in changing lanes. So in short, a movie with a lot of potential but is killed in its boringness "}{"Title":"Think, stuck in a traffic jam . . .","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You know the feeling when you're stuck in the middle of a big traffic jam. .. you're moving ever so slowly, and becoming more & more frustrated by the minute. . . well, that was Changing Lanes.  You sit there watching this train-wreck of a story become a huge unnecessary mess.  The characters behave like complete morons, and find themselves in the most unlikely and unrealistic of situations.  As the plot becomes more and more absurd, I became increasingly impatient and annoyed.  It's difficult to get involved in a movie when you don't like any of the characters all that much; and in my opinion, both men in this film were unlikable idiots. (Spoilers) Still, there are moments when the audience has no choice but to sympathize with the characters; however, this feeling never sticks because in the end, this is a movie about two hotheaded maniacs who get into a fight and then respond by stooping to the most extreme of tactics (computer credit erasure, sabotage, and much more).  Yes, the concept is good; it's fresh and should be interesting, but yet it's NOT.And I just loved the speech that Gavin's wife gives him in the restaurant. I actually laughed out loud because it was so melodramatic and corny. What was the writer thinking? If you want to live on the edge with me, blah blah blah.  Who speaks like this??  Dads in a jam so he instantly calls his daughter to take care of business - plain dumb.  Don't get me wrong, I didn't hate the movie.  There were some interesting scenes.  But as a whole, I'd say save your money, and if you cant sleep one night, watch it on cable. "},{"Title":"Edge of  your seat mischief and deceit.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from the theatre and seeing this movie.  It was a really exciting film from start to finish and not to mention some really great acting as well.  Gavin Banek (Affleck)  is an upper class white collar lawyer who is on his way to a hearing that if he wins will take him to financially the next level.  Doyle Gibson (Sam Jackson) is a down on his luck alcoholic who is own his way to seek custody of his kids.  The two mens' lives intertwine when they get into a wreck on the FDR turnpike.  Banek brushes the incident off likes it's nothing while Gibson wants to do the right thing and exchange insurance cards etc.  Banek offers Gibson a blank check to pay for damages so Banek can hurry and leave to get to his hearing.  Banek accidentally writes down his info on a folder and gives it to Gibson unknowingly.  The folder is the main emphasis of the movie and the two men become bitter enemies and put each other through living hell.  Again,  the acting is superb in this movie and it was really interesting and appealing.  8.5 "},{"Title":"three films","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is three films presented simultaneously.First is the morality tale of the good, black, female, working class family-oriented New Yorkers trying to do the right thing pitted against the greedy and selfish, white, male, upper class, alliance-of-convenience elite New Yorkers, not incidentally lawyers. The film's quick alternation of scenes presents a contrast between two group worlds the well-appointed, spacious court of the elite, run for the participants' convenience, versus the crowded shirtsleeves hearings for the rest of us; the office of rows of computers and phones that is the work world for good folks versus the suite of over-appointed offices holding incriminating files where the lawyers work; the small car that dies at the first sign of trouble vs. the luxury import whose air bag saves a life in a high speed accident. You get the idea who gets pinned to the ground by school safety patrolmen and who gets away with perjury? The  black mother is unremittingly sympathetic, albeit a tad hasty at the custody hearing; the childless rich white wife intentionally chooses and justifies a life built on wronging others. The characters near the margins of this divide are allowed to be veer somewhat from good to evil. Black, working stiff but male -- mostly very sympathetic, but prone to outbursts. White male but recovering alcoholic -- friendly, some good advice, but one act of superior moral condescension which AA would frown on. The good people are victims, victimization is good but should be compensated.Since there really are two stark worlds in NYC, though one isn't good and the other evil, this film is visually entertaining if bankrupt morally and intellectually.The second film is a vendetta of escalating violence between two men. This is entertaining if full of holes. The single most extreme act is unbelievable, out-of-character and, as a premeditated attempted murder, completely off the plot line. This is the action film -- car crashes, wrestling, fights, arrests, terrorized bystanders. The natural symmetry of a vendetta film wars with the PC moralism of the first film.The third film focuses on the redemption offered by conscious ethical control and responsibility from the ravages of impulse, anger, and short-sighted self-concern. Before, beside, and after their vendetta, the protagonists must fight with themselves to avoid the nasty, poor, solitary, brutish and short life derived from following their natures and instead take control in order to pursuit the well-being of others. What gives the vendetta a complexity is its embedding in this ethos, but the complexity in turn vitiates the vendetta, and the ending -- bringing in the first film -- makes an unbelievable hash of the redemptive message.So the complexity is purchased at the price of coherence and sense.Acting does count. Jackson makes his character sympathetic -- but not too sympathetic, since you believe he is capable of outrageous behavior. Affleck is neither charming nor weighty, so we don't care about his character and don't believe his redemptive solution. Hurt as a friend is both caring and removed.There is something to be said for relying on writers to create a satisfying script. "},{"Title":"Makes some great points","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm talking about character, I'm talking about et-tics! No, I'm not ashamed to use the word, says the character Johnny Caspar in the opening scene of the Coen brothers' 1990 masterpiece Miller's Crossing. That speech would have been a fitting opening to Changing Lanes.  The true test of character may be what a person does under duress The person can a) choose to do that which serves his own interests or b) do what's the best for the overall good of everyone involved. This is the moral decision Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) is faced with when his car collides with Doyle Gibson's (Samuel L. Jackson) on a NYC freeway, leaving Gibson stranded with a flat tire. You watch in agony as Banek makes the absolute wrong choice. In a coincidence only Hollywood could make, both men are headed to the same courthouse.  Banek doesn't know this, but refuses to give Gibson a ride after Gibson refuses to take a blank check. You sit there and judge Mr. Banek &#145;what kind of inhuman slug would do such a thing.' Yet the scene also plants a seed of doubt in your mind. The moment is so familiar, it's scary. Banek leaves a crucially important file behind while the two are arguing, a power of attorney agreement proving his law firm's control over a dead millionaire's estate. When we make the wrong choice, there's always that one thing that lets us know it. Had Banek made the correct choice, he likely would not have left the file. The moment exemplifies how all of us (not just in the Big Apple) tend to look out for ourselves, out of fear of being walked over, of being taken advantage of. Better luck next time, says Banek to Gibson and drives off. This commonly-used line carries more weight with it here than it ever has before. One of many great points Changing Lanes makes is that you never know what a person's situation is. Is it really healthy to always look after your own interests when faced with a choice, not knowing the other person's situation? You find yourself jumping into Banek's shoes. What would I do if I were in that situation? The answer truly is, 'no idea,' until such a time comes.This film makes another illustration, that making the wrong decision could be a sign that other things in your life are off course. These moments can be looked upon as tests. What does it say about you as a person, that you would make the wrong choice in a situation like this one? Neither Gibson nor Banek takes any kind of lesson from the incident at first. Both men make foolish decisions instead, initially out of anger. Another great point Violence and anger only spurs more violence and anger. Unless cooler heads prevail, the cycle will never end. Banek and Doyle engage in their own small one-day-long war and it changes both of them forever. The struggle brings out the worst in both men. Or is this who they really are? In Doyle Gibson's case, he has a history of losing his temper, which goes into overdrive on this particular day. Even though he was wronged over and over, he lets his anger get the best of him, making him equally responsible for perpetuating the wrongdoing. Gibson's AA sponsor (William Hurt) speaks the film's most important line near the film's climax (also uttered in part in the trailer). It's the one about everything being held together by a covenant and that Gibson broke the contract in his retaliation. He may as well have been speaking to both combatants at that moment. This covenant includes not stranding the guy you hit on the freeway and leaving the scene of an accident. It's all held together by a covenant. How very, very true that is. Changing Lanes wraps everything up just a little too neatly and as a result takes longer to end than it should (too much exposition).  But if any film deserves the benefit of the doubt, to be forgiven its few mis-steps, it's this one. With this one, 2002 really begins. Grade A-  "},{"Title":"It was one of those days","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not what I was expecting - but very entertaining. While I'm still mad at Afleck for Pearl Harbor, I thought I would give him another chance. He was much better this time and I think, well cast for the part of a Wall Street lawyer who meets his match with a down on his luck Samuel L. Jackson.  You have to identify with both of these guys as they get caught up in a world of bad choices. (I don't think it's coincidental they're both motivated by women either).  Even with the rather preposterous plotline this film keeps the audience totally involved for two hours. Unlike some of the other films I saw last week, this one I can recommend. "},{"Title":"Stuck in traffic","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I felt like I was...stuck in traffic. Hard to sit through. As much as youare not supposed to like Ben Affleck's character, his acting is flattoo.  His character has not depth and either does his performance.Hmm, which came first...chicken or egg here?  The story idea isgreat, but it does not clip along at a good pace like a story takingplace in a day like this one should to feel right. I could not sitthrough this movie. I left almost at the predictable end and got alatte. "},{"Title":"Better more thoughtful than I expected","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck has a better than average performance. Samuel L. Jackson is also good although more subdued than his typical bombastic self. I was impressed at how bleak the movie dared to be. I also felt for both characters. The only weakness in the film was it's substandard treatment of women. I thought Collette was wasted in her role and Peet was as frightening as the terminator. Whoever wrote this screenplay may have some issues with women or doesn't know any nice ladies. I was surprised by Sydney Pollack, because he is quite subtle in his performance and realistic. He seemed less self-aware than in Eyes Wide Shut.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie -- more even than I expected to.  I thought it did a good job of depicting how both characters descended to thuggish behavior when pressed.  It stayed true to the characters for the most part.  It's two chief weaknesses were the fact that these men's lives continued to intertwine, to perhaps an unrealistic degree, and the end, which was weaker than the rest of the movie deserved.  Still, well worth the ticket price, in my view. "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie started this year.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect what I saw... It turned to be the best movie I have seen this year on the big screen and since a long time ago as well. 8 stars for a witty, very entertaining and exiting picture where ingeniously interwove characters arose from a fortuitous incident. The plot embrace so many masterly interconnected and so different scenes and aspects of life, of everyday people, that you can get to feel you know somebody for every single character in the movie. A sure candidate for editing in next year Academy Awards, hopefully for screenplay and music as well. All of my thumbs UP! "},{"Title":"A moralistic tale on the reluctance of reciprocity...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"      One can argue that trailers either give too much away, or mislead us into gaining interest in a film for all the wrong reasons. This is a solid example of the trailer for the Ben Affleck/Sam Jackson vehicle &#145;Changing Lanes'.  Upon first impression, a tight, vendetta filled thriller seems to emerge from a tale of destiny in NYC. Yet after screening the film, the trailer seems a distant memory as to what exactly transpired on film.      My expectations of this film were relatively low considering Director Roger Michell previously directed &#145;Notting Hill'. Directing romance and an urban dram can be two extremes, yet Michell surprises with the creation of this unexpectedly moralistic tale.     Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson are two strangers whose lives collide in a devastating twist of fate on a gloomy Good Friday. Spanning over the course of one full day, we are teleported directly into the lives of these two men. Although this is not one of Jackson's greatest performances, his portrayal of Doyle Gipson's vulnerability as a newly divorced father is as solid as the script allows it to be.        On his way to the courthouse, he gets blindsided by Gavin Banek; a seemingly spirited young attorney. In an effort to exchange information on car insurance, Banek flees the incident due to a court appearance and leaves the stranger in the rain in desolation without a car. What was marketed as road rage in the trailers is merely a subtle tale about our hurried times. With each meticulous act; no matter how minute, the film displays the dire consequences of abandonment.       Due to the accident, Gipson (Jackson) misses his court appearance causing his life to steer in the path he was dreading. Consequently, hatred ensues as Banek's chance encounter takes a turn for the worse in a cat and mouse game of reluctant reciprocity due to both men wanting something they may not have. Michell uses his time wisely as he familiarizes the audience with motives, character back-story and significant details that will all contribute to the sudden uprising of morality that surges in the film &#150; all within the first act.       As aforementioned, those who expect a thriller will be disappointed. This film is a statement on how our society is stratified and the degree to which two men will attempt to achieve their personal vendettas within different classes. The content is presented on screen in an elegant and unravelling manner that makes us understand that the film is not about obtaining what you once had, but obtaining what you thought you had.     Michell opens the film with a few &#145;speedup' shots of NYC accompanied by some trance like beats that do not prepare the viewer for what they are to expect.  The film sets up the first act by bringing our characters into what it is they think they need.  This in turn leads to a second and third act that might unattract some viewers, but places the film a notch above the rest in terms of cinematic pensiveness.      Without giving too much away, the film forces the viewer to reflect upon the many immoral and illogical acts we have all committed within our lifetime. As we see our characters not embarking on an escalating feud driven by genuine dislike and anger, we capture a full throttle vision of a film based on morality. These characters will resort to &#145;strong-arm' tactics and vile methods of reacquiring and avenging their misfortune, but as common sense seeps into their thinking, their values emerge.       Values dictate their actions in the final act and instead of sitting through a conventional and convoluted climax; we are witnesses to an apparent salvation. Chap Taylor's screenplay presents the audience with a morality tale instead of a Hollywood thriller that delivers an uneven yet metamorphic tale that requires a thorough understanding of the double-meaning of the film's title.Giancarlo's Rating **1/2  "}{"Title":"This One Belongs in the Fast Lane","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Finally!  A movie from the Spring 2002 collection that deserves your attention.  Changing Lanes brings together that rare combination of a first-rate script with inspired direction and strong performances from every actor on the credits.  Even the fact that this is a film with a message doesn't detract from its pure entertainment value.  Ben Affleck seems to get stronger with each project he takes on.  You feel for the guy (even though he plays a lawyer) as he faces the consequences of his own actions and character flaws, and as he finds out the world around him is populated with hidden agendas and wolves in sheep's clothing.  Samuel L. Jackson turns in his best performance ever as a man being pushed to desperate measures to save his marriage and the love of his children.  And what can you say about Sydney Pollock?  Every time this actor/director appears on screen you get focus, passive intensity and the comfortable experience of watching a true cinematic craftsman.  The message In spite of every mistake that you make in life, in spite of every wrong turn that fate throws at you, you have the power to make things right.  Isn't that what the Golden Rule is all about?  Go see this movie.  "},{"Title":"A True Thriller. Bold and Without Apology.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two men. One whose life is ready to recover from the throes of alcoholism. He is willing to set aside his chaotic nature for his family.  It is a delicate balance, though.  One child custody hearing is critical.  It will change his life.Another is starting to realize what it's like to sell your soul.  He is ready to submit documents turning over all control of a charity to his law firm.  Documents which carry a signature which may or may not be given unscrupulously.  It is this document that serves as a window to a world of compromises; compromises all too willing to exact a unpayable cost.Their paths crash each other's, literally. It is an accident on the FDR that sets into motions events that will escalate to crushing levels. It is not only at the end of Changing Lanes that these characters will understand that they've just been through hell.  Their lives have lived through a journey to the edges of their dark nature.  It is the end of the film that shows them both weary, thinking it all over.It is this insight that carries this film.  There is no other film out there right now taking this kind of chance with fleshed out characters like these. This is the best film I've seen this year.  "},{"Title":"Two Men Have to be in Court But they have a Fender Bender","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck is a lawyer in his father-in-law's law firm and he's on the Frankin Roosvelt freeway; Samuel L. Jackson is a man in Alcoholic's Anonymous and is trying to his family from moving across the country to Seattle and he is also on the FDR freeway.The two men crash,a fender bender nontheless.Affleck says he has to go and gives Mr. Jackson a blank check and takes off leaving Jackson dumbfounded on the freeway.But in Affleck's haste he accidently gives document to acksJonThe little war is on.The war of witts is on and so is the mean-spirited stuff especially on Affleck's part. "},{"Title":"Incredibly well-edited drama that pulls its punch","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"      The plot is clear.  The performances are stellar.  Although like a lot of people reviewing here,  I wondered why there was a need for such high-profile actors in essentially two or three scenes.  I did love the father-son bit between Pollack and Affleck, and the combination of awe, fear, and hatred that seems to pass from the latter to the former.        What distinguishes this movie more than anything else for me is the cutting.  From the cutting of the two accidents, to the parallel conversations (did anybody else notice a pattern of conversations, like Doyle to his wife, cut to Gavin & his boss,  Doyle & his sponsor, cut to Gavin & his lover?), and from the very first images where we go between Doyle speaking in an AA meeting about joy to Gavin speaking at a corporate conference on charity, the film is a great comparison/contrast study.        The acting reflects it, in that these men are equally willing to go to war, and equally hopeful for peace in their lives.  Though they're both faulted men, one unstable and angry, the other slimy and deceptive, they end up seeming more alike than different.  And in that realization comes the resolution of the conflict.      In fact, had the film ended with that scene of the two of them meeting in Gavin's office, that point would have been the one to crystallize, instead of the idea of doing the right thing.  Because this is really a better character study than it is a morality tale.  It's about two guys from opposite ends of the track who set each other off and ultimately help each other get straight.   But it's really all synthesized in the editing -- it's just like what Pietro Scalia said when he got the Oscar for Black Hawk Down.  Editing is the great alchemy of movies, and Chris Tellefsen/Roger Michell gets it just right.  "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is good for two reasons, acting and character development.  The acting by everyone is very good, Ben Affleck, Samuel L. Jackson, William Hurt, Sydney Pollack and all the supporting cast.  But it is the character development that makes this one of the best films so far this year.  The way they mix, almost like a DJ, from Affleck's character to Jacksons shows how the choices each man makes causes each event.  I would not say this is a great movie but it is a good one and worth seeing.  The ending my be seem a little nice and contrite but after all the stress developed by the movie, it was refreshing.       "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and unpredictable","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie does an excellent job of identifying the main characters and setting out their motivations for wanting to be in court on time . Their subsequent collision on the expressway as both are preoccupied with their respective priorities is both very abrupt and very realistic. This scenario is one that anyone of us could find ourselves in at any time. I found myself wondering what I would do in that situation.What happens next would depend on the individuals involved and given the volatile nature of these individuals , it seems inevitable that one or both will blame the other for their problems that result from the collision and seek to strike back at the other to get revenge. This may sound immature and childish, but it is also frighteningly believable.Most people may be very calm and rational most of the time, but when they believe that they have been provoked or wronged by another, reason and passion fly out the window and are replaced by anger, rage and throughts of revenge. Events quickly spiral out of control. Changing Lanes was very entertaining and very unpredictable in its depiction of the lengths that both characters go to in order to strike back at the other.  Ben Affleck and Samuel Jackson give first rate performances.   "},{"Title":"One of the best of 2002","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is a perfect example of how promotional material can ruin a movie experience.  The trailers along with the television spots and theatrical posters, sort of tainted my experience going into the movie.  They all gave me the impression that this was a star driven vehicle with only big names going for it and nothing else.  The story seemed weak, and Ben Affleck's past projects haven't been that rewarding for audiences.  Affleck's previous performance in last year's Pearl Harbor was rather thin and artificial, and gave me the impression that he could not perform as a leading man, or in a supporting role either for that matter.  Changing Lanes is exactly that, a change for Affleck into a dramatic role, that he does almost flawlessly. 	Changing Lanes is certainly has a star studded cast.  Academy Award winner Ben Affleck (Good Will Hunting), Academy Award nominee Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp Fiction), Academy Award nominee Toni Collette (The Sixth Sense), and Amanda Peet, all turn in very impressive dramatic performances, in a virtually flawless film.  Affleck plays Gavin Banek, who accidentally has a collision with Doyle Gibson (Samuel L. Jackson) while rushing to a court case that he is already late for.  Banek is a prestigious lawyer has who recently made partner in his firm.  As we all stereotypically expect his career has been made solely on lies and cheating the system.  Gibson is also late for a court case but of a different nature.  Gibson's case actually involves his life.  He is a recovering alcoholic who is fighting with his recently divorced wife over the custody of his two young sons.  We are shown that he understands the fact that he is not a perfect person and has made some mistakes in life, but is willing to go through any means necessary to be able to have his children in his life.  Both Gibson, and Banek arrive late to their cases, but each judge has a different way of dealing with the situation.  The judge in Banek's case is willing to let mistakes be mistakes, and move on with the case.  However, the judge in Gibson's case has already completed the hearing and is not willing to listen to Gibson's story whatsoever.  Just goes to show you what status will give you.  Just when things couldn't get any worse, Banek reveals that his most important file for the case at hand was left on the FDR Bridge where he had his encounter with Gibson.  Luckily Gibson picked it up, and here is where all the fun begins.  The file is essentially the whole reason for the future events to occur.  Banek needs and wants his file back, while Gibson is reluctant to give it back, because he wants the twenty minutes of his life back that Banek wasted that morning.  Various actions are exchanged as a way to force the other to stop and give him what he wants.This movie has a serious tone, and in the past I know Affleck has not dealt well with drama.  Changing Lanes seems as though Gavin Banek was written specifically for Affleck.  He seems so fitting and so perfect in his role, that he has reassured me that he is a serious actor.  How much in the upper echelon a lawyer may be, Affleck shows us that he is only human, and a rather simple one at that.  The audience is able to relate to the hardships that Banek is going through, as his problems seem simple in the scheme of life.  Banek has a gut check towards the end of the film that any descent human being would have.  This gives us a reason to feel anguish, sorrow, and anger that Banek has gone through, that day, and the rest of his experience as a lawyer for that matter.  Samuel L. Jackson is excellent as usual.  He is an actor to watch very closely.  He very rarely disappoints audiences with his work.  He seemed to fit in perfectly in the role of the single dad struggling for custody of his children.  Gibson is a people's man.  He is a very realistic portrayal of those struggling to get out of the lower class and into the middle class.  Jackson's wonderful charisma sheds light on a semi-dull, and unenergetic character.  Jackson's presence brings the character of Doyle Gibson to life, and allows us to relate to his prolonging struggles.  To my surprise, I found that Amanda Peet can be serious and is a half way descent actor as well.  Her stupid comedic roles in the past have led one to believe that she will forever be typecast as the hot girl everyone wants.  I'm glad someone took a chance and cast her out of type in a small but excellent role.Changing Lanes has re-ignited my faith in Hollywood, and in Ben Affleck for that matter.  The combination of Affleck and Jackson is almost flawless, and came as quite a surprise.  The two seem to feed off of one another, and that makes each character that much more entertaining.  The ability of the writer (Chip Taylor) to give us characters that are real, and characters that we can relate to is a great gift, and a job well done.  The direction that Roger Michell gave his actors also helped lend to the superb outcome.  Changing Lanes is one of Affleck's best performances to date, and is a movie that will go unappreciated for the spectacular film is it.  It ranks right up there with We Were Soldiers as one the best films of the year.  My faith has finally been restored in Hollywood, and I hope that more movies like Changing Lanes will be churned out in the future.Grade A-  "},{"Title":"A solid, thought-provoking thriller that makes you think twice about life (contains spoilers)","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fate can be very cruel at times. That's the conflict Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) and Doyle Gibson (Samuel L. Jackson) share in CHANGING LANES, a great psychological thriller. What began as a small accident on FDR Drive in Manhattan between the two characters escalates into atense battle of wits and nerves as Doyle and Gavin struggle to getwhat they really want to accomplish on that very day, and how they try to mess each other up at the same time. This movie gave me my own conflict who to root for and sympathizewith. At first, Jackson's problems with trying to keep custody of his two children, and how much his life is in deep shambles made me want to keep my utmost feelings for. How Gavin thoughtlessly leftDoyle in the middle of the FDR with his wrecked car left me thefirst impression that Gavin is nothing but a self-processed hotshot that disregards the little guy. But, as the movie continues, Gavin starts to develop a conscience, that probably ruining another man's future won't make things any better. So, my considerations for Gavin ultimately changed.The movie does an expert job representing what both central character thinks, in each of their respective scenes. Jackson is typical great, playing, despite Doyle's uncontrollable fits of rage (you can't really blame the guy for being desperate), a more subtle character than his more popular, foul-mouthed roles like Julius from PULP FICTION, and John Shaft from (obviously) SHAFT. And Affleck, whom I haven't really cared too much for, undertakes a great performance as Gavin. "},{"Title":"An intriguing look at modern-day morality","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes offers an intriguing look at modern-day morality, with Sam Jackson and Ben Affleck as two fundamentally decent guys pushed into terrible moral compromises by fate. It is compelling with multiple twists all the way through that actually make sense (a rarity these days), and actually requires Ben Affleck to act for the first time since Good Will Hunting. I can't imagine why the rating is so low overall when it just played to non-stop sold-out shows tonight here in Chicago and the audible audience response was intense and positive. "},{"Title":"What you should do if you are on your way to this movie!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let's face it, this movie is trite. I was expecting a much better film, never mind better cinematography. But it's slow, tired and worn. The trailer was a better film than the movie... it moved, it had action and it left you wanting more.The story starts off slowly, and never seems to really reach the speed you wish it would attain. The idea is good, the day in the life of two men who meet in a traffic accident and everything goes downhill after that, but the execution is severly lacking.I don't know if it's the fact that the director treats us to so many shots where we see the back of someone's head as a shadow covering half the screen, or trucks rolling by in the forefront of the picture as scenes whiz by. Or maybe it's the unrealistic idea that a man who is trying to prove that he's a good father would stoop so low.The acting is well done, but the characters that they play are one-dimensional and predictable. You aren't going to see much suspense here. "}{"Title":"Another Hollywood Ending","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This started as a good movie, but went downhill. It had some good lines throughout, but was overall dissapointing. To fault is none other then hollywood endings and the must-be-happy ammerican audiance. You are feeling this guy. His life is just going and going down hill, then, BAM! everything works out, happy ending. messed up the whole movie.-J "},{"Title":"A Respectable Effort by Film Makers","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A great premise for a movie and a gutsy move by film makers - no long action sequences, no special effects, no sex - the entire movie rested on the script and the ability of the cast to deliver it.  Jackson did an excellent job of playing a troubled alcoholic father.  He's truly one of the most volatile actors I've ever seen.  Ben Affleck, on the other hand, continues to play the same basic character over and over again.  I'm beginning to believe he only knows how to portray himself.  But despite Ben's horrible acting and the dissappointing script, I still enjoyed this movie and I applaud it for daring to be something different from the typical blockbuster-overhyped-moneymaking-fanfair. "},{"Title":"A study of ethics put to practical use.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If anyone has taken an Intro to Ethics or has studies various ethical principles from Egoism and Relativism, to Absolutism and Platonic thought, this film is brilliant.  At face value it's a wonderful depiction of human conflict and behavior, but on a deeper level the two characters are constantly bombarded with ethical dilemmas and are forced to ask the question By what principles should I live my life?  At the beginning they don't really know the answer to this question.Through the course of events they are confronted with circumstances that drive them to various ethical principles Karmic Principles, Relativist Principles, Egoist Principles, and in their quest they even touch on God a little.  (this is all implied of course, through good script writing)This film is so brilliant, I feel it's unethical to support my analysis from scenes in the movie; assuming that one person reading this hasn't seen it, and I don't want to give away anything, including the ending.For those who've studies ethics or remember their intro course in college will understand what I'm talking about.  This movie rates as my new favorite for this year (post-Oscar). "},{"Title":"A shifting morality tale","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes surprised me.  What really got to me was how it doesn't try to dumb down its plot by adding a trite Hollywood version of how things might play out.  Instead, it makes observations about what happens when we let our emotions run unchecked.The movie teams up Afleck and Jackson as two men who are living out one of the most crucial days of their lives.  They get into an accident on a New York Expressway one morning.  Both are in a rush to get to court.  Gavin Banek (Afleck) has to present an important file proving an ailing billionaire turned over control for a lucrative trust foundation to the senior partners at his Wall Street law firm.  Doyle Gibson (Jackson) needs to get to his custody proceeding so he can show that he bought a house to convince his long-suffering wife to stay in town and not leave for Oregon with his two young sons.  He's a recovering alcoholic who lives by the AA credo and wants to do this the right way, that is, exchanging insurance information.  Banek writes him a blank check instead and refuses him a ride to the courthouse.  Better luck next time, he says as he drives off.Gibson is twenty minutes late for the hearing, which is over when he arrives.  He pleads with the unsympathetic judge, who coolly tells him, If this were my family, I would have made sure to be here on time.  Distraught and raging over his loss, he is cornered by an anxious Banek, who realized after he got to his own proceedings that the file he needed had been left with Gibson by accident.  When Gibson realizes the importance of the file, he faxes him one of the pages with Better luck next time scrawled across it.In his desperation, Banek goes to his former mistress for help, and she supplies him with the name of a guy who can fix things.  Played by Dylan Baker as a man with a cheerful cynicism for his job, he arranges to turn off Gibson's credit to get his attention.  It's like when you put those electric collars on a dog, so they get a shock when they stray outside the yard, he says gleefully.  Banek reluctantly goes along with it, because failing to come up with that file could mean a lawsuit or even jail time.So begins a daylong battle between these two men, who met only by accident and fail to realize the futility of their situation.  The movie skillfully demonstrates their strengths and flaws as basic personality traits that get severely tested as they ascend to each new level of contrition.  Gibson believes in Alcoholics Anonymous, believes in the importance of staying sober.  But his sponsor (William Hurt) feels that alcohol isn't Gibson's real addiction, but chaos.  There's an unspoken covenant not to go berzerk, and you broke it, he tells him.Then there's Banek.  He begins to believe that the dying billionaire may not have understood what he was signing, that maybe it's better that the file remains lost.  His wife (Amanda Peet) is blunt with him she could have married an honest man, but she married a Wall Street attorney instead, and he should act like one.  His father-in-law, the senior partner, is a pragmatist.  How did the billionaire make his money, after all?  Do you think that those factories in Malaysia have day care centers in them? he asks.  Do you want to see the tax incentives he gets from that foundation?Beneath all the moral ambiguity is the simple fact that these two men are locked into a contest they have no hope of winning.  In a lesser movie, one of them would have been held up as the hero and the other the villain, but in this one there are no such distinctions.  By the end of the day both will have committed despicable acts against the other, and if there is suspense it comes from wondering if they will stop before it's too late.  The casting is right for these roles.  Afleck is known for his serio-comic characters (Chasing Amy, Dogma) but here plays it straight, growing more and more disillusioned with each hour.  Jackson is at home in the role of a man whose righteous indignation seethes just beneath his carefully constructed surface.Changing Lanes asks when is it time to simply to let the matter drop.  How far is too far?  One wonders if either of these men will stop long enough to ask themselves that very question.  "},{"Title":"Really enjoyed it!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie!  If you think you are having a bad day, go see this movie and find out what a really bad day is all about!!!  The movie gives a good life lesson....and a nice reminder to us all that each of us has the opportunity to make a difference in our lives.  Life is really all about how you handle it...and it is fragile.  Remember what we do daily can have a very big impact on other people and you never know what that truly may be like until you walk a mile in someone elses' shoes.  This movie has a deep meaning......enjoy! "},{"Title":"Social Commentary or A Strong Message","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After taking in Changing Lanes I was felt with several clashing opinions. They all added up to the same principle though, this was a good, enjoyable movie to partake. Affleck is becoming a seasoned actor and Samuel L. Jackson thrives in a role written for his sometime desperate-antic ridden psyche.But more specifically five points stick out to me while attempting to review this movie. Maybe perhaps you agree or disagree with them after seeing the movie yourself or perhaps this will cause you to take in your own viewing of the movie or perhaps leave it for a rental opporunity. Either way, here they are...1. Is this a Social Commentary on a number of things? Society, Hollywood, the profession of Law, family life. Who knows? I do know that this movie did provoke me to think of my own ethics and put me into the popular situation of what would I do? Either way, the characters played realistic roles in a situation we all could relate to in some way. 2. Is Affleck becoming a top notch actor or just going through the motions. So many young, talented actors fall into normalcy in most non-blockbuster roles. This is a good movie, but won't get Ben an Oscar. However, he pulls of a strong performance. 3. Samuel J. Jackson. Could anybody have played this tole any better??? If there is somebody out there, I doubt he's been found. 4. Co-stars? Affleck and Jackson are the only two worth noting in this movie. Collette isn't amazing either way, and frankly, whatever she is doing with her physical appearance...it isn't working. Sorry. 5. Overall thoughts. A smart, thought provoking movie, that while at times drags on and on, it's fast-paced and high intensity ridden plot scheme leave you satisfied and enjoyed. The end is what you want and so the director gives it to you.7 out of 10. Jackson and Affleck form a formidable duo in a strong movie by a promising director. I recommend taking it in the theatre...if not, give it at least a rental. "},{"Title":"pretty exciting","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was extremely tense. The way that Affleck and Jackson react to the situation there in is so well done and makes you care about the characters. In my opinion they made it seem like Affleck was the good guy in this movie because of how bad he feels about putting this guy in the situation while Jackson does not and does some pretty mean things to Affleck in the movie. Had some good elements in it and some twists which I thought put more tension into the movie cause you never know if the character will do the right thing or not. i would have liked more action in it and better actions by the characters to ruin the other persons life. Some of the things the people do to one another seem pretty extreme and unrealistic which ruin the how realistic this movie could have been. Overall a very good job by both actors  "},{"Title":"A well done, thought provoking film.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since there's been a good movie out. To find one you must first sift through the Shakespearean remakes, teen oriented tales and just straight out garbage. But the light at the end of the tunnel is 'Changing Lanes'.The film is a weaving of montages of two characters Gavin Banek (played by Ben Affleck) and Doyle Gipson (played by Samuel L. Jackson)and how they are connected by a moment in time. Like many other films a recurring theme in 'Changing Lanes' is good vs. evil. But who is the good guy and who is the bad guy? The roles are constantly changing between Gavin and Doyle as one tries to one-up the other in an attempt to seek either revenge or justice due to an automobile accident. It happens to be Good Friday in the film, Gavin steps into a church during a service at his lowest point in the movie and a crucifix happens to be hanging from the cab driver's rear view mirror that Doyle is riding in prayer is recurring in this movie. Doyle, a recovering alcoholic, and is heard in his AA meeting saying God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. This is the major theme of the entire movie. Some things happen and we have no control over them, but some things we do have control over. And 'Changing Lanes' is the way we handle the things we can control, either in a good way or a bad way, and how this control will impact those around us.Jackson plays a father who is trying desperately to regain his family, which is a refreshing difference from the destructive black man seen on tv and films today. Affleck, who is most noted for his action films such as Pearl Harbor and Armaggeddon, steps into a more emotional and intellectual role and he shines. At the end of the film we are shown that it is one's actions and choices made that determine their worth. A thorough and excellent movie. A must-see.  "},{"Title":"Well-acted but slow-moving and disappointing","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever hit the lowest point of your life and just as you think you're about to get out of it, someone does something to drive you further down the spiral? Did anyone ever do anything to you that was so hurtful or  that got you so mad that you wanted to do whatever you could to get back at them?These are the questions that go through the minds of two disparate New Yorkers, who turn a minor car accident on the West Side Highway into a bitter,day-long feud. Samuel L. Jackson plays Doyle Gibson, an insurance salesman who has recently been separated from his wife and family due to his alcoholism.  Ben Affleck plays Gavin Banek, a scheister lawyer wanna-be, who has been entrusted by his law firm to deliver important documents to court to prevent a lawsuit against the firm. Both men are in a hurry to get to their respective court appearances, when they get into the car accident, but when Banek rushes off, he leaves behind the document that would save his case and his firm.  When Gibson is made late for his own court appearance to fight for the custody of his kids, it drives him into an act of desperation and anger, as he uses the important file to try to get back at the uncaring lawyer who has ruined his life. In return, Banek goes to a slimy hacker to tamper with Gibson's credit rating, putting the home  loan he needs to save his family in jeopardy.Changing Lanes examines the lives of the two guys, who are trying to desperately to hold their lives together, and just as they  are about to make ends meet, they run into each other-quite literally-making matters worse. The movie doesn't have as much to do with the two men fighting against each other, as the two men trying to find a way out of their situations and change their lives. Neither guy is particularly bad, but they both feel they must do whatever they can to save face and save their way of living.If you've seen the commercials or the trailer, you've probably seen the best parts of the movie, and much of the rest involves needless sub-plots and exposition that acts as pure filler. The trailers are a bit deceiving  as they seem to promise an action-packed thriller, but that's just not this movie. The basic formula is that we see a bit of expository dialogue, then one of the guys acts against the other, there's a bit more exposition, he feels bad, but before restitution can be made, the other guy retaliates. There never is the sort of over-the-top one-upmanship that made the recent Panic Room such a great movie.  It also quickly turns into a reenactment of The Firm, as Banek tries to find out the truth behind his firm's unscrupulous practices when it comes to the estate of a dead philanthropist.As far as actors go, I'm a fan of Jackson's, but not so much of Ben Affleck;  as characters, both of them have a hard time winning over the audience.  Just as you begin to despise Affleck's character, he tries to make amends and make up for some of his tactics.  By comparison, Jackson's behavior tends to be erratic and irrational, suddenly flying  into rages as you begin to empathize with him. But other than that, Jackson and Affleck are both given an ideal opportunity to show off how good they are as actors, and in this film, they're both at the top of their game. Ben Affleck is surprisingly good, with the redemption of his character being apropos, considering his own recent personal  problems. To his credit, he turns Banek into the more likable  of the characters over the course of the movie. He consciously tries to resolve the situations as they escalate while Gibson seems rather unrepentant and thus, less sympathetic. What's interesting is that the two men keep passing each other, yet their direct face-to-face interaction in the movie is fairly minimal. It's too bad, since these few moments are some of the film's best.The rest of the cast, which includes Amanda Peet as Banek's wife (and daughter of the big boss) and William Hurt as Gibson's AA sponsor, are unnecessary and easily discarded characters. They could have just as easily been unknowns, hired from a SAG casting call.  The only exception is actor/director, Sydney Pollack, who plays off Affleck beautifully, as his boss/father-in-law. Pollack has always been a class act, and he plays the slimeball trying to justify his own crimes as well as he did in Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut.The script, a first screenwriting effort by Chap Taylor, is great, and credit can be given to director  Roger (Notting Hill) Michell for getting such stellar performances out of the two actors, but both of them should also be blamed for the poor pacing.  The movie is very slow and dry, and there is just way too much exposition and drama.  Taylor should have tried to insert a few lighter moments to break up the rather dour mood of the movie. As far as the filmmaking, the entire movie looks grainy and poorly lit with fairly bad cinematography.  Michell uses way too many close-ups, and often, the camera seems as if it was poorly positioned.  There is a clear-cut moral and resolution to the story as both men try to seek out redemption, but in general, the ending is also a bit of an anti-climax.Overall, the premise for Changing Lanes is good, making for an interesting character study, but it gets bogged down in trying to develop the characters far beyond what is needed.  More often than not, the movie tends to drag, and it fails to deliver on the trailer's promise of being an exciting thriller. On the other hand, it does succeed as an insightful drama, and if it were a stage play, I would be raving about the terrific script and performances.  But to sit in a movie theatre trying to watch these two characters trying to make sense of their lives is just not what I consider entertainment, and if this were a television drama, I probably would have changed the channel.Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"How a situation can change decent people into raving lunatics!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ****Warning!! If you haven't seen this movie yet you may not want to read this comment.****I just got home from seeing Changing Lanes. I thought it was one of most excellent movies that I have seen in a long time! I actually understood it for a change! The movie business seems to like to make movies where you REALLY have to think and I believe that in some cases it takes away from being entertainment. By the way, did anyone that understand Vanilla Sky ? I love Tom Cruise and it was a darn shame that his beautiful face was wrecked or wearing a mask, but beyond that I have no clue what that movie was really about and I think of myself as a pretty smart person.Getting back to changing lanes. You could see that both characters were good people and that's what made the movie so compelling. I liked the fact that it didn't end at the point where Affleck & Jackson were talking in Affleck's office. Most movies these days would have ended it there. Like this is life and that's the way it goes. Instead Affleck made things right and would you believe a happy ending! Haven't seen one of those in a long time! I gave this movie 10 stars! Loved it! "}{"Title":"Fast action/drama!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie!  What a wonderful concept to to have two men create havoc for each other just to get what they want and they both learn something from their actions.  The director made this movie jast paced enough to where no film was wasted(I thought) and moved just right along.  I really felt sympathy for both characters, even though what they were doing was wrong.  Something is good in the end though.  I recommend this film to anybody and maybe lawyers should watch this movie also.  It's a good movie to learn from.  This film was about honesty and looking at what's really important.  I wonderful movie that I would see again and again and again..............etc. "},{"Title":"One minor accident, and all hell breaks loose.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a well thought out movie. It starts out about two different men. One named Doyle Gipson(Samuel L. Jackson) an insurance salesmen and recovering alcoholic, and a lawyer named Gavin Banek(Ben Affleck). One day they are both going to court. And both have a minor car accident with each other. Gavin leaves the accident and unknowingly leaves an important file for his case. Doyle picks up the file, but is soon late for his court appearnce. When Gavin discovers that he needs the file for his case. But Doyle refuses to gave it back, then thats when all hell breaks loose. Great performances by Jackson and Affleck. These characters will take you by surprises. This movie has great tension, it will grab you hard. "},{"Title":"Nothing short on entertaining","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was actually quite entertaining.  Ben Affleck and Sam Jackson had good chemistry.  The movie was suspenseful and actually made us care about the characters.<Spoiler>  Though popcorn entertaining as it was, I had a very slight beef with the morality.  I did not find it credible that Affleck's character Gavin would ever convict himself by exposing the corruption.  Gavin's character is afterall a lawyer. "},{"Title":"Ben is back (and Sam never left)!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What would you do if you had to struggle between doing what was right, or doing something to get what you wanted?  Would you do the right thing?I was lucky to see an advanced screening of Changing Lanes.  I must say, Ben Affleck was at the top of his game and more confident than ever.  This is the Ben I've grown to love.  Samuel L. Jackson was fantastic as always, and William Hurt (in a small role) gives an inspired performance.The cinematography was some of the best I've seen for a Hollywood release, especially in a world of Van Wilder's and Sorority Boys.  The score was outstanding and complimented the movie.So, what was wrong with it?  As with every movie, there are certain events that don't seem plausible.  There were some things (in fact, a major plot point) that just wouldn't have happened.  Of course, it *could* happen, because stranger things have happened, but it seems highly unlikely. Also, the drama takes place in one day.  That's a whole lot of drama for just 24 hours, but as you know, when it comes to life, crap happens.  There was a reason why all these events take place on a holy holiday (take a guess on which one).As a side note, I don't like how the trailers make the movie seem as though it's action all the time.  You will be disappointed if you study the trailer, because most of what see was not in the movie.With the exception of the cursing (there was no sex but minor violence), I even think young adults could watch with their parents so they can discuss good vs. evil.It's an above-average popcorn movie that adds some twists and turns. Check it out on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Changing Lanes Review","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A well made film that has all the ingredients a film needs. Changing Lanes is a film about a car crash that causes a series of events to happen. The film is based on an event and how much more trouble is created from one avoidable event.Samuel L Jackson once again puts on an excellent display as a struggling father and his style of naturalistic acting allows the audience to easily sympathise with his character. The other main character is played by Ben Affleck. In my opinion this is Affleck's finest performance. Taking on a slightly different role to his usual characters, Affleck really performs well as a fragile lawyer who wants to do good.The film is directed well and the music and cinematography both work wonders with the film. There is an overall sense during the film that the tempo rhythm is constantly changing and the audience are effectively moved around with this.In conclusion I think the film is a success and is what good films should be about. There is a strong moral message which casts an immediate impression in the audience's mind. With a combination of excellent individual acting performances and a well written storyline, Changing Lanes is a must see and I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Well done, thrilling","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why this is a good movie The two lead actors give good performances, especially Samuel L. Jackson. His best moments come -When he explains to two men in advertising his idea for a Tiger Woods commercial -After he talks to his wife on the pay phone for the first time but before he checks his messages at work-When he talks on a pay phone for the second time-And near the end.Ben Affleck doesn't have any standout moments like these, in my opinion, but he does a good job overall. The other major actors also deliver, especially those playing Doyle's wife, Doyle's friend from AA, and the hacker (who was deliciously evil).But the movie is well written. And very complicated. Both male leads face moral dilemmas that each could have been the plot line for separate movies, even if the two characters had never encountered each other. The accident and the revenge plots just add to the excitement level. And the writers didn't just give us a simple 'You got me, so I'm going to get you worse' sequence of events. Both characters had numerous opportunities to forgive and forget if they could just be mature. This was also true with the plot lines that would have had nothing to do with the accident.And of course a movie like this serves two purposes. As in the case of 'Falling Down', the main characters get to do what we may have fantasized about, so we get to live through them without facing consequences ourselves. At the same time, we are shown that these actions do have consequences, and we learn that we shouldn't act impulsively. (Or should.) The excitement level did not stay consistently high, because this was not really an action movie. But the tension stayed constant most of the time, and we were given the occasional energetic scene. The second car crash was really something to see.The ending was quite a surprise. I thought I could see what was going to happen, but I was wrong. I still found the ending satisfying.It was a very good movie. "},{"Title":"A thought-provoking, provocative drama/thriller showing that everyone has their highs and lows.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Repeat Review. Reviews #1-97 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur3825387/comments Reviews #98-#100 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5060215/comments Reviews #101-#104 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5339193/comments ---------- (Original Date of Review - August 25, 2004) (Old Review Record - 1 out of 1)Directed by Roger Mitchell, Chaging Lanes shows us that life is a roller coaster, and if you don't live it right, you'll end up with a new low. This movie shows that we all have both highs and lows in life.The story just happens to all be on a Good Friday that doesn't seem to be that good after all. I believe all of this is happening in New York. Gavin Banek (Affleck) and Doyle Gipson (Jackson) are two busy men that are in a hurry to life-changing events. Banek is a lawyer and off to an important case that he can't lose while Gipson is off to a divorce court to save his kids. They're on the highway in a rush and get in an accident. They then, being in their rushing moods, are disoriented and continue their days in awkward ways. Within the 20-minute mark of the movie, both protagonists already are at their lowest and they're trying to make things right. They can't and they get even lower, involving even more people within their rage, this not necessarily being there's a good guy or a bad guy. Their struggles to bring each other down become even lower and lower, this entirely still happening on Good Friday.Overall, Changing Lanes is a great gripping drama with some thrilling elements and shows you how bad life can get unintentionally. There are definitely great performances by Jackson and Affleck and great direction by Mitchell. The screenplay is awesome in its own way. It's a great dramatic performance from 2002.My Rating 8/10 Objectively &#150; 8.5/10 Subjectively &#150; 8/10 Eliason A. "},{"Title":"finding meaning in life","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good Friday is the darkest day of the Christian year, when evil was let loose to do the greatest damage.  The actions of this movie happens all on Good Friday, when evil is let loose, not as the time when a Savior was crucified, but the daily evil that affects human life.  The love of money is the root of all evil, and the members of law firm is filled with that love as they seek to control a hundred million dollar foundation.We meet two men, Doyle and Gavin, who never would've met each other except for a car accident.  Instead of exchanging insurance info, Gavin refuses to take the time and offers a blank check.  Doyle wants to do the right thing and refuses the check, for which he is repaid by being stranded in the middle of the road.  However, as Gavin was searching for his checkbook, he drops a legal file from his briefcase.  That file becomes the basis of the story, which links the two men for the rest of the day.It turns out that both men were on the way to court.  Gavin, the rich white lawyer, arrives late and is given the rest of the day to retrieve the file.  Doyle, the black alcoholic who works for an insurance call center, arrives too late at the custody hearing, and loses his sons to their mother who is set to move across the country.So it goes back and forth, with a scene of each man's day being paired to one from the other's.  As the story unfolds, we see that the lanes that were changed were not merely what led to the car accident, but their lives.  A vendetta is unleashed as Doyle, so full of hope at buying a house and keeping his kids, responds to Gavin's destroying his hopes as a way to force him to turn over the file.  Both men outdo themselves as they sink lower into evil.Finally, Gavin wanders into a church to collect himself, and sees a processional of the cross; finding the only empty seat is in the confessional, he asks the priest to help him find some meaning in life.  At the same time, Gavin is showing his wife the old house he planned to buy, empty except for a picture of the `Sacred Heart of Jesus' left in the closet.  Neither man hears what they want, from the priest or the wife, but Jesus is what gives life meaning.  No amount of money can fix our past mistakes.  We can never get our lost time back, but we can move on and make the most of the time we have left. "},{"Title":"A good thriller","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Changing Lanes' is a good thriller. The story is original in most aspects and it will keep you on the edge of your seat. Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck have an interesting fight in the movie and during that fight, that goes further and further, they learn things they never knew. It is very interest to watch how they handle certain things and regret most of the things only a couple of instants later.I was never bored watching this movie. Especially Samuel L. Jackson gives a very fine performance. I didn't understand why certain very small roles were filled with actors like William Hurt and Amanda Peet but it didn't bother me either. Definitely a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly deep","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I chose to watch Changing Lanes tonight, I made my decision based on the fact that I wasn't looking for something entirely thought-provoking.  So it was with great surprise that I realized about thirty minutes into the film that this wasn't a classic `revenge' tale. *Possible spoilers herein*Changing Lanes stars Samuel L. Jackson as a recovering alcoholic who is fighting to keep his ex-wife from moving to Oregon from New York with his two children by providing them with a modest house to live in.  Ben Affleck plays a young hotshot attorney who pretty much has the world at his fingertips.  When the two get into a car accident in the beginning of the film with no one being hurt, the careless handling of the situation by Affleck sparks events that end up changing both of their lives in the course of one day.  While the viewer can place equal blame on both parties for their actions, this is not a routine revenge flick due to the fact that morality and (seemingly) feelings of regret seem to follow both of these men, despite the fact that they continue on.   It also calls into question whether the events that take place would have precipitated the direction their lives eventually take, both personally and professionally.  These men are not heroes; rather, their flaws make them entirely human.  I am not a fan of Ben Affleck, in fact, I try to avoid his films as much as possible, but he was quite good in this film, as was the usually great Samuel L. Jackson. Of course, this was not a perfect film.  There were some plot holes, overly dramatic moments, and a completely useless scene featuring Ben Affleck in a church, but overall it was a sufficiently good and thought-provoking film.  Not exactly what I was looking for, but surprisingly refreshing.--Shelly  "}{"Title":"Well told cat-and-mouse story","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is one of those films that can tend to stick with you. Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck star in this well-made drama about a day that starts off on the wrong foot.Both Jackson and Affleck are headed to court for different reasons, but each man neglects to tell the other that fact when their fender-bender on a Manhattan freeway. Affleck, as a young hotshot lawyer for his father-in-law's firm basically looks the other way when he tells Jackson, who is going to a custody hearing to keep his family in New York City, better luck next time, which are words that will used against Affleck.After the accident, Jackson misses his custody hearing by minutes while Affleck has lost his most important file for a court case intended to dismiss a lawsuit.From there, a cat and mouse game ensues wherein both Jackson and Affleck do things to hurt each other, but not necessarily in the physical sense. Meanwhile, Jackson tries to keep his sobriety while Affleck tries to understand why he got an estate case that may or may not have a fraudulent signature.Changing Lanes is a well told story featuring supporting roles from Toni Collette, Amanda Peet, William Hurt, and Sydney Pollack. "},{"Title":"Some suspense but not much depth","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the back cover, the film tries to make out as posing interesting moral questions that the viewer can think about. The issues are thin, however, the plot does not get dull although it is an old theme - it is the story about somebody accidentally getting something that belongs to another, which that other wants to get back. Although there is little development during the film, one wonders what will happens next and that is enough to keep the interest up. However, not much conversation topic in the film, and you will quickly forget that you ever saw it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie That Will Hopefully Find Its Audience","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you've ever read my comments before, then you know I'm in the movie industry. I recently submitted a screenplay to one of the majors. The comment came back that it was good but needed another layer. I thought about it and realized they were right.  Changing Lanes is about layers. Layers of character, layers of situations. There are no stereotypes in this movie, thus it appears to reflect the reality I have come to know in my lifetime.This film wasn't created for the 16-24 set. It is not about simplistic revenge, which can be brutal (pick a Michael Douglas movie) or funny (pick a Laurel and Hardy). This is about real people with complicated issues. The writers understand that money alone doesn't make you happy. That most families are dysfunctional only varying in the level of their dysfunction.It is about playing hardball in the game of life. Most of us have played softball, but we can't even conceive of what it is like staring down a 95 MPH hardball with 0.2 seconds to react. Such is the life of a Wall Street Lawyer who has it all, and yet has no self respect, as it is the life of an insurance salesman, who only wants to keep his marriage together and his children around.This movie choked me up. I don't choke up easily watching a film. Anybody who thinks this film was a waste of celluloid had better re-think their world-view. Because this movie was ultimately about life.9/10 Samuel L. Jackson - Superior  Ben Affleck - Better than usual Sydney Pollock just continues to amaze me as an actor and director and don't forget William Hurt, the very essence of humanity. See it, believe it. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie..great actors, great story.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie that I think everyone should see.  The movie takes two seemingly random people who meet by chance and throws a day at them that they'll never forget!The scene in the church was fairly humorous I thought.  Affleck is a great actor and is not just a pretty-boy like some people think.The bar scene and the phone scene after it are also very good. "},{"Title":"It's not about revenge","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers follow (but read the first three paragraphs)...I wasn't relishing the prospect of watching this film. I was expecting a grim story of a war of revenge sparked off by a car crash - a kind of asexual War of the Roses, with more blind rage and less black humour. This is the last thing anyone would WANT to see.I don't believe in revenge. Not only don't I think that the urge for revenge justifies anything, I don't think that there really IS an urge for revenge - at least, not as a stable mainspring of human behaviour. When we're wronged or injured, we want to strike back; to thump the guy who honked his car horn at us, say. But this feeling lasts, what, half a minute? I can't see the desire for revenge for a past wrong (as opposed to an ongoing injustice, like the occupying of one's city by an army) lasting, unprompted, more than an hour, and certainly not beyond a good night's sleep. People who desire revenge for longer than this have to really work at it, and they work at it, I suspect, because we've all been told that revenge is something we OUGHT to want. The desire for revenge, like the need to believe in supernatural gods, is a fundamentally unnatural desire we're told we have in order to sell us something.(It's no accident that, in fiction, revenge is used as a motivating factor mainly in B-grade genre films and Italian opera ... places where formula is everything, psychological accuracy counts for little any old trumped-up motivation will serve.)Changing Lanes understands the true nature of our desire for revenge. Of the two main characters Doyle is more prone to it in day-to-day life, and his acting on it is limited to, when he's under great stress, ripping out a computer terminal when he's denied a home loan which he badly needs (or thinks he badly needs), then wishing he hadn't. That's all. He lashes out - or doesn't - for a brief moment, then the feeling passes.In any case, the story isn't primarily driven by revenge even of this kind, but by misguided practical rationality. Gavin cuts off Doyle's credit not out of spite but because he thinks, and has some reason for thinking, that only by so doing can he recover the file he needs. Doyle - who by now, after maybe an hour, had lost all desire to strike back, responds with a threat partly out of a kind of moral pride (to not want to give into blackmail is not to want revenge), party to safeguard his own interests. After things turn much more sour each party engages in ONE act of revenge each - and regrets it immediately afterward - not so much out of a desire to hurt the other person but out of a desire to DO something, anything, in a hopeless situation. The fact that the two parties are talking to each other and bear no ill-will at the end is perfectly natural. Many people, of course, would keep the feud, which had never really been a feud in the first place, going, but if Gavin and Doyle had done so it wouldn't have been because they really wanted to; it would have been because they'd been told, by films less intelligent than this one for instance, that this is how people behave. It isn't. At least, if it weren't for the propaganda, it wouldn't be.Reading through the comments here the one that surprises me most is the claim that the film is boring. In fact it's the opposite the rare film that is not even a little bit boring. That people can be bored by a film like this, intelligent, well written, splendidly acted by all concerned (note also the supporting players, Sydney Pollack and Australia's finest acing export, Toni Collette), with something of genuine interest hanging on the outcome of each scene, and on top of it all worthwhile things to say, is as incomprehensible to me as it is that people can manage NOT to be bored by something as clumsy, as monotonously bloodthirsty and as empty as, say, The Two Towers. Oh well. Perhaps these people didn't bother really watching, because they thought it was about revenge. "},{"Title":"Why???","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This film is boring, pointless and irritating. There seems no apparent reason for the events that take place. Ben Affleck's character Gavin Banek decides to bankrupt Samuel L. Jackson to induce him to return the file belonging to Banek that he accidentally left at the scene of their minor car accident. Would not any normal person just contact him and ask for the file back? I know I would. So then Samuel L. Jackson's character decides to try and kill Banek. Of course, the natural thing to do. It's just ridiculous, and try as I might, I could not persuade myself to give a damn about any of the characters in that film. What a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Unfinished Business..","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Changing Lanes is a pretty good movie..for three quarters of its running time that is. The story centers on two men living very different life styles who through a quirk of fate, meet as the result of a traffic accident. Both it turns out, are headed to the court house for different reasons. Ben Affleck plays an arrogant self-centered Wall Street lawyer named Gavin Banek. He is going to court to represent his firm's takeover of child's trust fund. Samuel L. Jackson on the other hand plays Doyle Gipson who is headed to court for a custody battle with his wife (Kim Stauton) over their children. The accident changes both men's lives forever. Banek leaves Gipson stranded on the freeway but doesn't notice that he has dropped a file with information crucial to his case. Gipson arrives late for his court date after the judge has awarded custody of the children to his wife. Banek is given the rest of the day to produce the missing file in court and Gipson is distraught over the loss of his children. Banek, in an effort to force Gipson to turn over the file with the help of a colleague and former lover (Toni Collette - having a REAL BAD hair day), hires a computer hacker to effectively bankrupt Gipson and destroy his credit. Gipson on the other hand, tries to cause Banek to have a serious traffic accident to exact his revenge. Banek has to explain all of this to his boss and father-in-law Stephen Delano (Sydney Pollack) who arranges to fix things. Gipson now finds he is bankrupt and cannot get the loan that was approved so that he could buy a house in order to keep his children in New York. The film is fine to this point. In the last quarter everyone suddenly comes to their collective senses and Director Roger Michell takes us through yet another lives happily ever after Hollywood ending. It's kind of a let down after seeing the cat and mouse games between the two main characters. The movie leaves us wondering about a lot of unfinished business. Consider the following  1. Where were the cops at the scene of the accident?  2. On a crowded roadway, surely there would have been a few witnesses.  3. What happened to the leaving the scene of the accident charge?  4. Why wasn't Gipson charged with attempted murder for tampering with Banek's car? And again, where were the cops?  5. Did Gipson ever regain solvency?  6. What happened to Banek's marriage?  7. Did Toni Collette find a new hairdresser? "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Minor spoilersIts a real good film! I really like how the film`s Cinematography and just about everything else is. Jackson and Affleck were great and I was surprised how Amanda Peet`s role was and she acted it very well so she can be a beautiful serious woman! The film goes way beyond road rage and through the film its so much more than that.I liked the film and I hope it gets more credit than it has.  "},{"Title":"More than the trailer","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There have been whole articles on how much of this movie the trailers give away.  Don't worry about it.  The trailers don't begin to approach the psychological twists.  A very good movie, with a lot more depth than you'd think from the trailers alone.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You really can't go wrong with Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck.  From the previews, I thought this movie was just going to be about two grown men acting like 12 year-olds, and in a way it is like that, but by the end of the movie the two men have grown (mentally) a great deal and realize what is truly important and what is right.  The acting is very good for both of the main characters.  The supporting cast was pretty good too, nothing to complain about there.I thought the film did a great job of keeping me interested.  I also liked that you could agree with the point of view of both characters, Sam Jackson and Ben Affleck, in a way they were both right and both wrong.  There isn't really a whole lot I can say about this movie.  I thought it was fun and interesting, and I hope you feel the same.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "}{"Title":"The kind of turbid ethical drama they used to make. In 1976.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Up until its bogus everything-must-go ending (insanely belying the movie's honest grapple beforehand with the impossibility of avoiding selling out), CHANGING LANES brings you back to gritty, downbound dramas of ethics circa late-seventies--no-exit pictures like Ulu Grosbard's STRAIGHT TIME and Sidney Lumet's PRINCE OF THE CITY. It starts as an almost abstract fantasia on the differences between two Americans a white guy (Ben Affleck) who lives in a glass tower of a law office with fake Alex Katzes on the world; at the end of a hard day he comes home to Amanda Peet and a present--his father-in-law's old forty-foot yacht, thrown him as a bonus. The second American is a black guy (Samuel L. Jackson) grappling with his sobriety, wrestling his Rageaholic Issues, and trying to buy a house to keep his estranged wife and kids nearby. White and Black collide, literally, on the FDR Drive, and the rest of the movie Aristotelianly tracks their crosses and double-crosses and triple-crosses in the course of a single wearying, life-wrecking day.Unlike the issue TV CHANGING LANES sometimes feels like, the work of the screenwriters, Chap Taylor and Michael Tolkin (one suspects Tolkin rewrote the younger writer) has a feeling of uncanny end-of-nineties accuracy--unsteady fat cats feeling their cooked books coming home to roost, and have-nots getting steadily angrier at their have-notness. All the details are pleasurably right, down to the tinkly, Bryn Mawr voice Amanda Peet puts on to read a Paddy Chayefsky-like speech informing her callow husband that indeed, the world is corrupt, and why did he think she was with him anyhow? The director, Roger Michell (who made the passably pleasing NOTTING HILL) doesn't seem headed for the big leagues, but deploys one extremely useful stylistic device big, algae-oid, wobbly soft closeups that harden into focus, of a sort, when the faces loom close to the lens. You'd think this shtik would exhaust quickly; it doesn't. The images get at the theme of the movie the tireless pressures of the way the world is organized to get people to do the wrong thing over and over again. Tolkin, Taylor, Michell and company essay this hardheadedly, unsentimentally, more probingly than you expected; then they blow it with that candy-handing ending. It was, I guess, probably the only way the movie could get made--especially under the shockingly conservative aegis of Paramount Pictures. "},{"Title":"thoughtprovoking thriller","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gavin Banek and Doyle Gibson are two gentlemen having one hell of a bad Good Friday.  While millions of people around the world are commemorating the crucifixion and atonement of Jesus Christ, Banek and Gibson find themselves acting out a little morality play of their own in the streets and skyscrapers of downtown Manhattan.  Along the way, they too will confront the issues of right and wrong, sin and redemption - and find out just how far into the depths of depravity their own moral codes will allow them to go.   Interestingly, the heightened unreality of some of the characters' more extreme actions brings to the tale much of the quality of a parable. As a result, we don't have to believe every twist and turn of the plot in order to validate and appreciate it.As the title of the film suggests, the theme revolves around what happens when the paths of two very distinct lives `accidentally' intersect.  These two individuals are total strangers before fate, chance, providence, the gods - whatever you want to call it - conspire to bring them together. Banek is a hotshot young attorney who has married into his father-in-law's wealthy firm, while Gibson is a recovering alcoholic and AA member who is trying desperately to close the deal on a house so that his fed-up wife won't move with their boys to Oregon, far away from Gibson's deleterious influence.  Both desperate to get to their respective court dates - Banek to argue an important case and Gibson to plead for one more chance to keep his family from moving away - the two harried men meet up in a mild fender bender during morning rush hour traffic.  When Banek callously palms Gibson off with a blank check and leaves him stuck in traffic to fend for himself, the wheels are set in motion for the strange, offbeat tale of revenge and recrimination that ensues.  In the confusion of the accident, Banek does not realize that he has accidentally left a crucial folder in Gibson's possession.  Gibson, mistreated by Banek at the scene of the accident and refused a hearing by the court because of his tardiness, finds himself in no mood to turn the other cheek and help Banek by returning his folder.  The resultant game of cat-and-mouse, which could so easily have devolved into a cheap, tawdry melodrama of violence and revenge, instead achieves surprising moments of thought provoking depth and insight.`Changing Lanes' is, indeed, that rarity among American films a drama more concerned with issues and ideas than with cheap thrills and emotional exploitation.  Within the context of a densely plotted thriller, writer Chap Taylor has fashioned a film that is nothing less than a study of the part ethics plays in our daily lives.  Like all of us, Banek and Gibson contain within their beings both the seeds of goodness and the germs of evil.  The question becomes how far each is willing to go to cultivate those qualities when faced with the dilemmas and vicissitudes life throws their way.  Both men, though basically decent at the core, find themselves doing deeds that surprise even themselves when pushed into a corner by despair and desperation.  Rarely in the movies do we find characters this concerned with analyzing both the motives and the consequences of their actions.  In fact the film plays out like a classic morality play, with each man engaging in an internal struggle with his conscience as well as with the other person. The underlying cynical subtext is, of course, that, in the corporate business world, all morality is relative, a fact Banek, in particular, is ultimately forced to face up to - and, by extension, to act upon.Although it does seem to strain a bit to make its point every now and then - employing overemphasis when subtlety is what is really called for - the film boasts a number of beautiful and haunting moments such as when the director, Roger Michell, intercuts between a quiet, but highly charged and revelatory conversation Gibson has with his longsuffering wife and a scene of Banek seeking surcease from his guilt in a quiet confessional.Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson both do superb work at getting to the bottom of their respective characters' innermost feelings and thoughts. David Arnold's somber musical score and Salvatore Totino's moody cinematography lend an appropriately otherworldly quality to this stark morality play, making the everyday world of city streets and soaring skyscrapers seem strangely twisted and menacing.`Changing Lanes' does lose its nerve a little at the end, as evidenced by a certain softness in its resolution. Nevertheless, it still deserves enormous credit for attempting to do what few other films even have the courage to try.   It's truly refreshing to see a film that respects the intelligence of its audience and which provides moviegoers with a little nutritional sustenance to go along with all that cinematic junk food Hollywood normally provides for us in such abundance. "},{"Title":"Better Luck Next Time...","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Mitchell's Changing Lanes is superlative in a number of ways; it was much better than I thought it would be from the commercials.  While the very last two scenes of the movie could've been omitted to make a great thriller (why it doesn't get the +), what's left over is a picture handled with care by it's director and writer and stars (don't exclude the perfectly tense cinematography).  This is a revealing tale of two souls with anger building with each scene and not only with each other but with themselves as well.The film takes time in showing what the two leads- Ben Affleck as a wall street lawyer on the verge of making partner and Samuel L. Jackson as a meager insurance worker on the verge of getting a divorce- and it works by building a good level of familiarity with the two.  They get in a fender bender on the FDR in the morning, Affleck flees the scene without leaving an insurance card for Jackson, and without a crucial file folder with a paper he needs to get to the courtroom.  This isn't good news for him, and neither is it for Jackson's character who arrives late to the divorce court and left with nothing.  This also starts a struggle for one to get the file and the other to get his 20 minutes and dignity back.  But it goes a little deeper than you'd expect than that, which is just one of the film's sweet surprises.Hollywood needs to make more movies like this where formulas aren't pumped into situations that clearly can go on interesting routes and turns, and give the cast and crew space to expand on ideas which better the movie.  While this hope isn't entirely feesible, at least I can watch this movie (definitely one of the really better movies of the year so far) in the future and see an example of it.  A "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An original story, that escalates minor events into all out war between two fairly ordinary but stressed out individuals.A simple road accident, leads to 'Jackson' losing his last chance with his kids because 'Afleck' didn't give him a lift. And so it begins, a winding thriller of morality and revenge. 'Tit for Tat' rapidly becomes far more than just childish games, and the lives of everyone involved are turned upside down Very well cast and directed, this is a fine film, with an interesting story.8/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise, Disappointing Film","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The main premise of Changing Lanes is a promising one two men, each at an important moment in his life, have a simple traffic accident that provokes a series of vengeful acts and, ultimately, a spiritual/ethical crisis for each man.  Utilizing the structure and feel of a psychological thriller, the director increases the tension steadily throughout the film.  Samuel Jackson helps the cause with his excellent portrayal of a man who has been battered around by life and is now disintegrating before our very eyes.  We feel his long-held anger beginning to burst into rage, as well as his deep confusion and despair.  Most of the other actors also deliver strong performances, especially Collette and Pollack.  Even Affleck finds a good role for his limited abilities and unlimited personality, though his melodramatic attempt at showing an ethical crisis gets annoying by the end.  Unfortunately, the interesting premise and the great acting are ruined by several scenes that are simply unbelievable and by a unsatisfying and sappy ending that goes against the overall atmosphere of the film.*SPOILERS AHEAD*The problems begin with the accident.  I'm sorry, I live in New York, and there's no simply way that a Manhattan lawyer is ever - in this or anyone else's lifetime - going to offer a blank check to a total stranger after they've had an accident.  My partner almost bailed out on the film at that point.  She tried to suspend her belief, especially since the movie had just started, but this ridiculous premise tested her sorely.  If Affleck is in such a hurry, why doesn't he simply exchange business cards with Jackson?  A blank check?  Please.  There are several other unbelievable parts of the story the file worth hundreds of millions of dollars that's so casually lost; the fact that it's the only official copy in existence; Jackson - who wants to take care of the accident correctly - obviously not bothering to call the police, whose report would have helped him in several ways (and, in fact, why do the police NEVER show up at all, especially since there are eventually TWO CARS simply abandoned on the busiest highway in New York - I don't think so); the whole fire sprinkler routine to get a simple file - we're talking thousands and thousands of dollars worth of water damage to a large law firm, not to mention Affleck's own desk, just to get into an unlocked drawer?; the hacker being able to delete and restore so many of Jackson's important accounts so quickly; etc., etc.  Worst of all, why does Affleck never mention or seem to care about the fact that Jackson almost killed him?  After exhibiting so much rage throughout the film, you'd think he'd bring it up at some point.Finally, the ending is terribly flat and uninspiring after the long build-up of tension.  We're served up a high (and very shallow) moral lesson during a sappy Hollywood climax that defeats the well-developed ambiguities the rest of the film worked so hard to create.  All the good acting Jackson did to create a complex character is thrown out the window as the foes suddenly and boringly settle their differences, Affleck makes a little speech, and then he even solves Jackson's familial drama - all in two minutes.*END OF SPOILERS*It's interesting to consider what could have been done with this film.  A better writer and a better director could have turned this into a real classic.  The elements are all there - they were simply poorly executed.  Instead of the uninspiring ending, it would have been interesting to see more of a duel between the two protagonists, in which their rage and anger and their desire to do good all come into play.  The premise of the story deserved a better portrait of trying to survive and do well in an often hostile and confusing world. "},{"Title":"No waste of time, no time well spent either","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw changing lanes and i wanted to stop it half way. The photography and the setting were good, the story pretty lousy .I have watched it all the way, because it developed in some way. Not because of twisting plots or incredible drama, it just made me realize it's supposed to make some money and not to get an oscar. with that in mind and the reliability of Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson I suppose it's a nice movie to watch even when you only want to watch high standard movies.6.5 /10 "},{"Title":"As always, Sammy Jackson DELIVERS!!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The main reason, of course, is Sam Jackson.  He is such a good actor.  I loved the revenge theme that this movie had.  Ben Affleck was, well, typical Ben.  He never impresses THAT much.  I loved this movie.  It had a warm ending......but could have had a DARK ending and worked even better!! "},{"Title":"cleverly paced","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has been cleverly paced right from the beginning.Thats what is gripping about this movie. The editing has been done well.The story flows smoothly making it a thoroughly entertaining movie. It has indeed raised questions about morality.This gives the reasons people give to cover up their guilt. Its recommended for all those people who go for movies by not following the ratings.Ben Affleck has done a great job but has gone unnoticed for his performance in this movie. The stellar role played by Samuel Jackson once again confirms his acting abilities. and last but not the least the movie needs to be recommended for all those who are interested in gripping tales.  "},{"Title":"A great drama looking at the end between right and wrong","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One morning Gavin Banek is rushing to court to deliver vital paperwork to defend his firm in a major case.  At the same time recovering alcoholic Doyle Gipson is also due in court to contest his ex-wife moving away with his son and taking her visiting rights with her.  The two men meet in a minor car crash where Banek leaves Gipson at the crash site.  Gipson misses his case and loses custody of his kids while Banek finds that he has accidentally given a key legal document to Gipson by mistake.  Gipson is angered by Banek causing him to miss his date and begins to take revenge, sparking a small battle between the two men.When I came to see this I assumed that this would be one of the genre that sees a man or family terrorised by a person whom they have wronged in some way.  At the start I assumed Doyle would become increasingly violent and it would all end in a big stand off in the same way as The Fan did.  Happily this showed itself to be much better than the majority of the genre and much more intelligent.  The plot manages to be as much about each men deciding what is right and wrong within their lives as it is about their private war of attrition.This is where I found it enjoyable &#150; it never allows itself to be solely about the war becoming increasingly violent.  In fact only once does the action take the form of a potentially violent act.  Instead the moral struggle both men find themselves over their lives make interesting watching.  This is due to a combination of things.  First of all the writing is much better than the average genre pic, it's clever and paced well.  Secondly I found the direction to be excellent throughout &#150; long shots where we focus on a character responding to things we can't yet see, arty or clever shots etc.  It all made the material more interesting and always held the eye.The element that works best is the acting.  The performances take a good script and take it to work.  Affleck is good, and bare in mind I don't like him.  But here he has a good character and works well with it.  He is a cardboard character at the start but the more we know about him (and he about himself) then he becomes more real and Affleck copes with this better than I expected he could.  The real star is Jackson.  At the start he is such a real character that I was sad to think he would become a `normal guy pushed to the edge' clich.  I was real happy when he didn't!  Even on paper Doyle sounds like a stereotype `recovering alcoholic losing his kids' but Jackson never lets him become what we expect him to.  The support cast are all very good as well and do more than just provide background &#150; they provide depth.For course it is not without flaws.  Many people will be let down that it moves so slowly or lacks the sort of spiralling action seen in Single White Female, Falling Down or Pacific Heights &#150; but this is more than those genre pics.  Also sometimes the plotting is a little muddled and, while the overarching theme is good the detail doesn't quite hang together as it needs to, however this is a minor flaw as there is a lot to do.  The biggest let down is the ending &#150; or at least the final two scenes.  Prior to this the film is almost downbeat in it's moralising and reality of right and wrong.  However the ending is simply to tidy and neat and doesn't fit with the complexity dealt with prior to this.Overall I expected an average thriller type film but was surprised to find a film that manages to avoid clich as best as possible.  In place of the usual spiralling violence the film tries a (albeit muddled) look at the modern view of right and wrong, what is for the best and the worst.  Flawed yes but a very brave attempt to do something different and clever with a very clichd genre. "},{"Title":"An Unbelievable Day in the Life of a Big Firm Lawyer","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First, the positive notes about Changing Lanes.  Samuel L. Jackson brings real depth to his portrayal of a man with, apparently, a lifelong cloud over his head.  He alternates between taking charge and wandering in a bewildered Is this happening to me? state.  Ben Affleck is like no young big firm partner in a major law firm that I've ever worked with or known but that's okay.  He has his moments and his lack of depth as an actor is an asset for the role he portrays.  Sidney Pollack is, again, that very familiar SOB we all recognize in an instant and hate on cue.  William Hurt, in a small role as Jackson's A.A. buddy, is compassionately real.So Jackson and Affleck get into a fender bender on New York's FDR Drive on a weekday morning.  Amazing.  Traffic rarely moves fast enough for even a minor accident at that hour but this is the movies.  The ensuing and escalating drama as Affleck desperately and evilly seeks the return of papers left at the accident scene and now in Jackson's possession becomes more unreal by the minute.  Jackson's conduct, in turn conciliatory and then vindictive, has more meat and meaning. But not that much.In the young partner's firm legal ethics do not exist.  Neither does the slightest respect for the law.  Are there lawyers as corrupt as those portrayed in the film, Sidney Pollack being especially prominent for his sneering disdain of his profession and its ethical norms?  Of course but those lawyers aren't stupid and the Changing Lanes counselors are.  Big time.  This is a flat parody of attorney dishonesty, not an example of the reality. Still, for lawyers and law students the film has its moments.  Law students contemplating applying to a big firm should compare Affleck's interview of a young woman in her last year at Yale Law School with what they've been coached to say by their schools' career placement folks. ) ).At least in Changing Lanes the Devil isn't behind the machinations of the corrupt lawyers as he was in a fairly recent film.  Too bad - he would have added a welcome layer of dramatic intensity to the plot.  "}{"Title":"Contrived","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Shame about this movie.  Good cast, and decent acting, but it's a see-through plot that feels completely forced.  Too many scenes are Hollywoodized, where the characters stumble into coincidences that simply just would not happen.  And several holes in logic are required to make this movie run.  Samuel Jackson's character goes into a loan office/bank and picks up a computer monitor in one scene, throwing it into the window of the office.  Not only is he then allowed to leave the office without being stopped by the security guard/police, but they never seem to look for him either.  Which is not to mention the assault he puts on two white guys at a bar earlier in the movie, again not getting pursued at all. The movie is too simplistic, trying to comment on a situational phenomenon while forcing its way through a plot that would be interesting if it seemed less contrived.  The plot hinges on too many forced and improbable coincidences. "},{"Title":"Points For Trying","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that Changing Lanes was better than I expected. Note - this is not an endorsement of Changing Lanes per se, it's still a wildly uneven and mostly ridiculous movie with several glaring moments of Bad Acting 101. However, the movie honestly tries to fashion an old-fashioned psychological melodrama, it tries to intelligently explore the psyche of the Prototypical Shallow Alpha-male. The movie even tries for thematic richness - the two lead characters embark on journeys rife with parallel ethical battles and temptations, both making mistakes and both with several opportunities for redemption. The movie even hits the mark by providing both our heroes with minor victories along the way - imagine, a contemporary film structured in a way that thinks outside the box, and actually moves with a certain rhythm, as opposed to the predictable narratives that usually pop up in modern cinema.Dare I say, the director even has a tiny speck of style. Aside from Ben Affleck, he's populated the film with all sorts of character types. Real people with quirky faces and distinctive personalities. Most of the performances are actually strong - even the most secondary characters enter the film with a sense of internal life and energy. Toni Collette gives emotional credibility to her hackneyed role. Ms. Staunton is nothing short of dynamite as Sam Jackson's fed-up ex-wife; her level of commitment and honesty is a such a welcome bit of relief from the usual Modern Hollywood Fare. Dare I say that Ben Affleck delivers his best performance yet. Again - not an endorsement of Ben Affleck, who is still miles away from even beginning to remotely understand how to construct a believable character. However, he registers emotion, and much of it actually seems to come from a genuine place. Hell, there's an even an unbroken extended two shot at one point! Can you imagine? In today's era of meaningless editing and rapid cuts, we get a nice long extended shot of Affleck and Collette as they approach a turning point in the story, we actually get a bit of form that serves the characters, that serves the story. Capra must be singing in heaven right now!Of course, this is all about the lesser of all evils. Changing Lanes is a ponderous, largely superficial movie that is motivated by charcters who routinely behave in the most irrational and unbelievable of manners. It strives to be a character drama, but relies heavily on expositional dialogue to articulate its point (at one point, sponsor William Hurt tells alcoholic Sam Jackson You're not addicted to alcohol, you're addicted to chaos!). The movie is about a half hour too long and is crammed fill with Hollywood Character Traits - Sam Jackson is the recovering alcoholic who's just trying to be a better Dad to his kids, and so and so forth, boo-hoo, cry me a river. The directorial style is largely meaningless with a lot of nonsensical editing that makes for muddied action. Not to meantion the faux cinema verite that tries to pretend the movie has more intelligence than it actually does.  The movie attempts to explore characters' psyche, but wastes too much time on contrived plot machinations and hackneyed cat and mouse games to really achieve dramatic credibility.But it tried! Oh, how it valiantly tried! An old-fashioned man-vs-man urban Western. A big-budget Hollywood movie tried to use the thriller genre to explore character. Oh, how my heart aches for this brave director. Please, let this signal upward trend in the today's moviemaking. Please let today's movies understand that romanctic comedies and thrillers and courtroom dramas can be about actual characters - flawed, interesting characters. Sigh, I'm getting my hopes up. Notting Hill also tried and failed. This director may very well become the emblem of the Director That Tried So Hard to Honestly Be Good But Could Never Quite Get There.At least they tried. "},{"Title":"Steady On","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.A childish morality play. Cardboard characters all, even William Hurt! But that's not remarkable. What is remarkable is the exclusively steadicam presentation. It is wholly artless, a matter of cheapness. This is film, but we'll be seeing more and more of this as digital video becomes more common.The staging is `personal,' with a documentary- like stance which is the excuse for the technique. But it allows for the sloppy mechanic to sneak in. We should demand better. Even if the story weren't juvenile, even if it weren't hobbled by the lesser talent of Affleck that poor cinematography would still kill the project.The one actor who shines is Toni Collette. See her in `8 1/2 Women,' where she manages both a character and an abstraction of a character. "},{"Title":"Surprising and original at least","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAt first glance of Changing Lanes,it looks set to be a Duel-esque road chase movie,with a criminally insane Samuel L. Jackson chasing Ben Affleck's lead character until the inevitable end showdown.And,to a degree,it is.But,to the surprise of the viewer,this is not the central driving force of the film.The movie spends most of its time doing a really good,and to be honest,downright exceptional job of developing the two main characters.Jackson is not simply a crazy man,hell-bent on killing Affleck over a minor fender-bender,but a real person,totally contrary to the viewers pre-conceptions of the film.We learn why he is mad at Affleck,and what he has that he can use to make Affleck's life hell.Aside from the characters,the movie also ends in an unexpected and very peculiar way.All this,however,comes at the expense of the story,which in turn,loses focus and narrative,making the viewer become too consumed with one thing when they were really expecting more of the other.Worth seeing,but really as a break-from-the-norm as opposed to what you might otherwise have payed to see.*** "},{"Title":"decent movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie about the chain reaction that occurs between two men (Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson) following a fender-bender on the FDR freeway in New York. They are both on their ways to important rendezvous appointments when the accident occurs, and Affleck runs off before they can exchange insurance information, accidentally leaving important documents in Jackson's hands. The rest of the film focuses on a duel between the two men as they try to undermine each other. I liked it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Incisive Drama from Roger Michell","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	With the advent of the internet, all things electronic or digital, and fast food, our world has become altogether too small, and everything moves entirely too fast.  With so much happening all the time, everywhere, and with so many different ways to go, people have become preoccupied, which can be dangerous if the momentum propelling an individual happens to come to cross purposes with that same kind of momentum driving another, and the two converge.  And it happens.  `Things' happen; and when they do, the important thing is that all parties involved react responsibly and focus their individual attention on the matter at hand.  If either side fails in this regard, it can mean big trouble.  it means you suddenly have a situation; and it's just such a situation that is explored by director Roger Michell in `Changing Lanes,' a tension filled drama starring Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson.	Gavin Banek (Affleck) is a successful lawyer, a partner in the firm and married to Cynthia (Amanda Peet), the daughter of his boss, Stephen Delano (Sydney Pollack).  He's currently handling a probate case worth millions to the firm; he's due in court, where he simply has to present a document that will, for all intents and purposes, wrap up the proceedings.  But fate is waiting in the wings.  In another part of town, Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson) is also about to wrap up a deal-- a loan for a house that will keep his estranged wife, Valerie (Kim Staunton), from moving with their two boys, Stephen (Akil Walker) and Danny (Cole Hawkins), to Portland, Oregon, or as Doyle sees it, half way across the world.  	When Gavin and Doyle get into their respective cars to head to court, they are strangers to one another; they are about to meet, however, when heavy traffic on the expressway and their own preoccupied mental states precipitate a collision-- a minor car accident that ultimately effects a much bigger wreck in both their lives.  In his rush to meet his appointed court time, Gavin leaves the scene of the accident and, more importantly, leaves Doyle-- who also has an appointment in court (his child custody hearing, no less)-- stranded, and out of time.  Ironically, the document Gavin must file in court is inadvertently in the confusion of the accident left behind on the expressway, and is now in Doyle's hands.  And so the conundrum; loss of the document may mean jail time to Gavin.  To Doyle, the loss of twenty minutes may mean losing his children.  The question now is, how will these two men solve their dilemma?  One has what the other needs, but how do you give `time' back to someone?	This film, nicely fashioned by screenwriters Chap Taylor and Michael Tolkin, and extremely well crafted and delivered by director Michell, is at it's core a character study that examines the effects of desperation and the emotional responses elicited thereof.  It explores how anger and frustration can in the heat of the moment negatively affect even an individual who under normal circumstances is predisposed to abiding by his own conscience; how even the most rational among us has the capacity for irrational behavior if provoked by unmitigated circumstances.  At one point in the film, one of the characters observes that it's like two guys have been dropped into a paper bag together and shaken up, just to see what happens; and that about sums it up.  And Michell does an excellent job of keeping the story on track, setting a good pace and maintaining the tension that keeps the audience involved.  It's straightforward storytelling that is well presented and effective.	As Gavin, Affleck gives a solid performance, developing his character quite nicely as the story unfolds.  When the film begins, Gavin is in a comfort zone, a place that allows him the tunnel vision necessary to do what he does with a clear conscience.  In a way, he's naive; a guy who's been led down the path and made to believe that all is well in the land of the free.  By the end of the film, we see a different Gavin-- or at least an `awakened' Gavin; the same man, perhaps, but with an entirely different perspective on life.  And Affleck's portrayal makes it convincing, and brings Gavin to life in a very real way.  A good job by a fine young actor with the ability to tap into that emotional depth that makes his character believable.	Samuel L. Jackson hits his stride, as well, as Doyle, a character whose outward demeanor masks the complexities lying beneath the surface, but which Jackson brings incisively to light.  Doyle is your average guy, an insurance salesman, but a man plagued by the demons of addiction; he's a man addicted to chaos, evidenced by the failed relationships in his life and his inability to cope with the situation engendered by his encounter with Gavin.  Jackson creates a character with whom you can empathize, even as he makes you aware of the rage within him that could explode at any minute.  Doyle understands only too well the dire, probable consequences of being unable to quell his anger, and through his portrayal, Jackson makes the audience aware of it, as well; and it's a pivotal point in the story, which he successfully conveys.  And it's that unstable element of Doyle's personality that makes this more than just a story about right or wrong, or who's going to win; it means anything can happen, and it keeps you wondering right up to the end what that something is going to be.	The supporting cast includes William Hurt (The Sponsor), Toni Collette (Michelle), Richard Jenkins (Walter), Tina Sloan (Mrs. Delano), Ileen Getz (Ellen), Sam Rovin (Paralegal) and Jennifer Dundas (Mina).  A morality tale that, be advised, does not take too kindly to lawyers, `Changing Lanes' is an engrossing film that delivers much than what is promised, even, by the trailers; a worthwhile cinematic experience.  8/10.              	     		 "},{"Title":"At least Ben Affleck's performance was pretty good","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the way films are marketed you would be forgiven for thinking that great casting and an arresting idea are all you need to make a good film. One only has to witness how Martin Scorsese's name was hidden on all the publicity for Gangs Of New York , his pet project for the last twenty years, to understand the strength of this theory. Unfortunately for lazy minded marketers everywhere Changing Lanes shows what any cinemagoer could tell you, that the quality of a film is all in it's execution.Ben Affleck and Samuel L Jackson are both in a hurry when they collide on a downtown freeway. Affleck takes off before exchanging details but without a crucial file for the case he is trying, whilst Jackson misses the custody battle for his children. This then leads to an ugly game of tit for tat revenge between the two, as they both sink lower and lower to salvage something from the day.Despite the entire story taking place over a handful of hours the film has no tension, pace of immediacy, though this is a probably a side effect of the apathy that the lead characters provoke. Whilst Affleck and Jackson are perfectly cast as the lawyer losing sight of his morals and a desperate recovering alcoholic who seems to be fighting the whole world at once, the film never brings either to life. This is doubly galling since a good performance from Affleck seems to come once in a blue moon and so it is especially painful to see it go to waste.By the time the fudged ending ruins what respect the film may have gained for it's gritty style you will be too sick of the shaky handheld camera work and improbable character decisions to care. Best to changed channels if you ever come across this on TV.  "},{"Title":"Unconventional and intelligently-written","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's a totally offbeat film, about as non-mainstream as you could expect despite the presence of two A-listers in the dual leading roles. It's a character study of motivation and the forces which drive sane people to commit insane and unpleasant acts. It helps greatly that the leads are played with such skill and charisma as actors Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck can muster. Jackson is as intense as ever, but also unusually heart-warming in the emotional moments; Affleck puts in his best performance to date here as the vain but weak young lawyer, and the result is highly effective. The scenes in which the leads share screen time are very effective.The story is slow-paced but this works in the film's favour, building up a realistic picture of life in New York and carefully developing the characters along the way. There are many twists and surprises in the cat-and-mouse game played out between the two men, and it's never quite possible to predict the outcome for this is an edgy, sometimes unsettling movie. In the end things do get a bit preachy and syrupy, but this doesn't matter, because the film's message is a strong one and the dialogue is not spoon-fed to the audience, a failing of so many modern films. Instead this is a film that doesn't underestimate the viewer, that is worth a look thanks to being so unconventional and intelligently-written and made. "},{"Title":"Fast Moving and Honest Fiction","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This DVD was gifted to me by a friend a couple of years ago. It is a keeper. I do not watch it obsessively but pulled it out for a second watch after watching Woman in Gold.Changing Lanes may be fiction but it is honest to the corruption that is in our 'legal profession'. I say this as someone who has been battling partisan lawyers since 2002.Changing Lanes accurately portrays how lawyers have fallen out of their role of protecting the truth and justice, into making the money all that counts.The movie is fast paced, full of twists and turns and moral themes that are challenging. A rich lawyer dealing with an accidental encounter with a down and out man who is trying to return to having personal dignity becomes a good story about how the rich lawyer learns a lesson in what justice really is.This movie may be fiction but it is more honest to what 'the system' has created. I am hopeful that a movie like this might move citizens away from what the writers suggest in the clip provided with additional features. We need to move away from 'acting better when in vehicle accidents' to really challenging the corruption that starts with our legal professionals inside our nations.I remain skeptical about society's possibilities in rising up from the couch after watching this movie, that ends up with a good message for 'our highest'. Oh, Google my name below to understand why I like this fictional portrayal of the realities that apply to 'lawyers', all but know that the motives of 'getting rich', as portrayed in the Woman In Gold, have overwhelmed our social responsibilities.Changing Lanes, being made when 9/11 happened, becomes a better portrayal of what our personal responsibilities should be... rich lawyer or not... A movie that will remain in my collection for this reason alone, even if I never watch it again.Don MacAlpine, Wolseley, Saskatchewan, Canada "},{"Title":"Could not Grasp Attention","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes stars Ben Afflect and Samuel L. Jackson in a more so tiresome thriller with very little left yet explained. In one corner there's Gavin Banek (Affleck), an insensitive, 29-year-old Wall Street attorney who's married to the boss's daughter (Amanda Peet), already is a partner in a major law firm In the other corner is Doyle Gipson (Jackson), an older, recovering alcoholic who works in an insurance-selling sweatshop for low wages, and is desperately trying to remake his life so he can keep his wife and two young boys from leaving him. One stressful day the pair run into each other while, yes, changing lanes on the FDR Expressway. Late for court, Gavin brushes Doyle off, and leaves him stranded at the scene of the accident, preventing him from making the court appearance that might have saved his family.The film does not take much nor does it add anything new. A lot of it seems much as if it is filler time or time to pass upon film. It's relativity short but feels lengthy- which isn't good in this case. In the end it just suffers from boredom. However the film did receive great reviews and made some money, it is not what some may expect. "}{"Title":"The real thriller would begin where the plot of this film leaves off...","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes has high aspirations. Can a single film both reveal the profound corruption of top-level corporate lawyers, and give us hope that the members of this secret club retain post-induction the ability to change their ways? The story presents a series of mistakes made by the two primary protagonists, played by Ben Affleck and Samuel Jackson, over the course of a day. More happens in that single day than happens in an entire year of most people's lives! So, yes, the plot is fast paced. I did not find the acting poor, as some reviewers have complained. I actually found that it was pretty good, not only the Affleck and Jackson roles, but also the portrayal of the father-in-law by Sydney Pollack. But the Ben Affleck character was just too pure to be true! After marrying into his super-wealthy father-in-law's firm, he then seems to believe that he can transform the whole corrupt machine into a shining pillar of altruism! I hate to be this cynical, but I must say that if any real corporate lawyer attempted what the Affleck character claims that he will do at the end of the film, he would be found dead in the not-too-distant future of either a stroke, a heart attack, an apparent suicide, or a single-car accident. That is the reality of how ruthless the people in this arena really are. Saints do not fall into such commerce by mistake. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck is amazing...","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A lawyer and a businessman are involved in a crash on a busy motorway in which the business man crashes his car so that it is out of use and the lawyer is in a rush so leaves him stranded on the motorway. What the lawyer doesn't know is that the business man was on his way to court to fight for his rights to see his children and stop them moving half way around the world. On the motorway the lawyer left the file that contains huge evidence for a court case. The two are engaged in a battle to get what they want.This film starred Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Affleck & Toni Collette.Changing Lanes was released in 2002. In my opinion this is a decent film but had potential to be better. However in this film Ben Affleck was amazing in this film. He is one of the best actors in the film business. Samuel L. Jackson was good but I will remember this film for the acting performance from Ben Affleck. I do recommend this film because it has good actor performances and a good plot with decent execution.***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"Heavy handed moral ugliness","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) is a high power lawyer with a big case. Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson) is an insurance salesman in AA struggling with his divorce. Their worlds collide when they get into a car accident. Stress for time, Gavin runs off before they could exchange information but he drops an important file. Now Gavin needs Doyle's help to get the file back. Doyle isn't very cooperative since he couldn't get to divorce court and he lost his kids.These are not likable people. It's dark stuff. It's fill with anger and desperation. It's ugly and it's not a fun watch. Ben Affleck is basically a callous jerk who's losing his moral compass. Jackson is a ticking time bomb waiting to explode. One unlikeable character is maybe enough, but two is too much to take. This movie bashes the audience with moral ugliness. It's heavy handed and that's the part that I dislike. "},{"Title":"All speed, no signals","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes is a fascinating thriller, all the more because it constantly makes you question what would've happened if a character said something in a different way, executed a plan differently, or if a character wasn't at the wrong place at the wrong time. It's held together by strong performances from two actors we already know always live up to their potential, and is often suspenseful thanks to the way the plot allows each character pretty much equal screen time.The film stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson. Affleck is Gavin Banek, an affluent New York City attorney, who is racing down the highway to file a power of appointment document to assure that he now owns the assets to a dead man's foundation because the man signed it over to Banek's firm before he died. Jackson is Doyle Gipson, a recovering alcoholic in a rush to attend the custody hearing of his two young children so his wife doesn't take them and move to Oregon. Banek and Gipson get into a small accident, resulting in Gipson bearing the most damages, with a bent bumper and a flat tire. Banek doesn't have time for the insurance card exchange game and writes Gipson a blank check. Gipson asks for a lift, but Banek tells him that he needs to be somewhere, never stopping to ask Gipson where exactly he needs to go. Banek drives away before telling Gipson, better luck next time! This exchange and accident is really no one's fault. Both men are in a hurry, both men have opposite but equally serious lives to attend to, and, had this been a normal day where they were each driving to work or to lunch even, the meet wouldn't have been as hectic or as rushed. When Banek arrives at the law firm, he is missing a crucial file in his power of appointment case that he believes he left with Gipson, and when Gipson arrives at his hearing - after walking in the rain - his twenty minute tardiness results in his wife getting the custody of the kids. Both men are now frustrated and angry at the circumstances and at each other. What follows is a game of one-upmanship between the two men, as Banek tries to get his file back, which Gipson now has possession of, and as Gipson tries to overcome urges to drink again and the fact that he just lost his two sons.This story wouldn't be half as good if Affleck and Jackson weren't such great screen actors. Both men portray stressed and conflicted to a great level of believability as they do not become overcome with petty revenge motives and senseless actions that are nothing but minor annoyances or ill-conceived, overdramatic kneejerks. The acts of revenge both men commit on each other are realistic and have the ability to scar each other the most, but never do they stretch the realms of believability. Affleck, who has spent years working with thrillers and action films, knows what he is doing in terms of allowing character to bleed through a caricature. Jackson does as well, and together, both men illustrate a biting rivalry that is underrated in contemporary thriller cinema as far as I'm concerned.Changing Lanes was directed by Roger Michell, who amplifies the stress in various scenes of the film. Consider when Banek and Gipson are racing down FDR Drive, trying to get to their desired destinations. Michell is careful to show the hectic qualities of the scene, the bumper-to-bumper traffic, the last-minute lane changes the may shave thirty seconds off your commute, etc. Michell captures it all and thus makes Changing Lanes an active viewing from a directorial standpoint. As if he didn't have enough strong talent to portray on screen with Jackson and Affleck occupying it, Michell works to make the film riveting in terms of camera shots and tension creation, while writers Chap Taylor and Michael Tolkin work on giving the film a realistic tone to the project.Starring Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson. Directed by Roger Michell. "},{"Title":"I wholeheartedly recommend...","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A great movie which contains a wealth of deep issues to reflect and discuss. How and under what circumstances can a negative event such as a road accident can have deep positive outcomes? Its a movie about redemption, redemption from deep seated lies in Gavin's life (who is outside rich, inside poor) that money and all money can buy can make a person truly happy. Its a movie about a variety of principles of ethical behavior displayed by different characters of the movie. A movie about how to free yourself from deep rooted aggressions against someone else who has hurt you - by forgiving, making the first step to reconciliation. Difficult messages, but worthwhile not only watching but putting into practice. "},{"Title":"You'll want to yell at them","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a superb movie. It provides action, stirs compassion and wreaks frustration as we ride out the shock waves created by one small moment in the lives of two men previously unknown to one another. They are each on their way to what they perceive to be the most important event of their lives, the career of one, the family ties of the other. Their goals are disrupted, even destroyed, by the decision made in the moments of their initial meeting, which, we begin to realize, required the efforts of both men for that decision to have been made, and for all the ramifications which unfold with each new choice in their individual efforts to fix what has been broken. "},{"Title":"Back When I Loved Affleck As An Actor...","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story of what happens one day in New York when a young lawyer (Ben Affleck) and a businessman (Sam Jackson) share a small automobile accident on F.D.R. Drive and their mutual road rage escalates into a feud.What I find interesting is that comments on this film tend to be regarding which side to take, with some saying Jackson is vile or Affleck is selfish. And, really, that is part of the beauty of this movie -- we naturally want to pick a side, like one guy and dislike another. But they are both flawed people.Affleck is selfish, cheats on his wife, cuts off a guy's credit, flees an accident... his only redeeming quality is he is the only non-corrupt member of a law firm, though that hardly makes up for his failings. Jackson has a terrible temper, breaks things, has little self-control and is an alcoholic. Sure, he wants to reunite with his kids, which is noble, but maybe he should not be able to. Even if he had received Affleck's insurance card, he still would have been late for court... "},{"Title":"A Feelgood Thriller...?","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this on a bus in Mexico and it left an impression on me. I later forgot about it and just recently saw it on Netflix and rewatched it. I really enjoyed this movie for a couple reasons. I like the element of two people making really stupid decisions and letting their emotions control them and showing how that kind of thing can lead to things getting way out of hand really fast. In one day, two men effectively destroy each others lives because of an initial bad encounter that neither men are willing to move on from. I love the scene later with William Hurt as he shouts at Jackson's character telling him he's addicted to chaos. He should be given credit for the fact that after a cool down period he was about to give the file back, but had he been willing to fix things earlier, the whole mess could have been avoided. As I see it, both men are to blame in the end. That is why I love the ending of this movie. Both characters repent of their mistakes, are willing to accept the consequences, and things for the most part end up fixed and each side is better off. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Interesting","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Aside from the professional critics, just about everyone else agrees that Changing Lanes (2002) is a flawed film. Exactly where it goes wrong, however, differs from viewer to viewer. I would nominate the confessional scene. Obviously designed to change the hero's heart, it rings false to me and seems out of character. The fact that there's no build-up or previous reference to religion, doesn't help either. Yes, I realize that such a scene is necessary, but usually it's the heroine or the best friend who brings a protagonist to his or her senses. To introduce a priest from left field goes right against the grain &#x96; particularly as we've had no inkling at all of religion or religious beliefs up to this point. So, for me, the movie just fell apart. A pity! They spent a lot of money on it, and Sydney Pollack gives a great performance, easily outshining the nominal stars, Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson. An excellent Paramount DVD. "},{"Title":"This is a neat little movie","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes is fundamentally about two men who do bad things but are trying to do better. The main difference is that one is endorsed by society -- Ben Affleck's wall street banker -- and one isn't -- Samuel L. Jackson's alcoholic deadbeat dad. This difference in their social stations drives them into a conflict that causes both of them to revert to their worst impulses.As much as it offers ordinary revenge thrills, Changing Lanes is notable for recognizing the complexity and inequality of our social structure, which dominates even the most powerful of the characters in the film. Even the most obvious villains have reasons for their actions, and one can see how they're pushed into playing out their social roles. At the same time, it's not entirely deterministic -- there are right things to do, but they're difficult, usually involving hurting someone or giving up on some principle or another.Affleck acquits himself relatively well, although he's still Ben Affleck. Jackson is predictably great, as this is back when he still sometimes cared, and Amanda Peet is fantastic in a brief but memorable role as Affleck's amoral wife. Of course, the film is more than a bit melodramatic, with things escalating to a ridiculous extent over the course of one day, and the attempt at reforming Affleck's character towards the end feels a bit forced. It's still a mainstream Hollywood drama, and never really deviates from that style. But it's better than most such dramas, and is in the end a nice film that's been already forgotten as part of the ebb and flow of popular cinema. That forgetting is kind of justified -- it certainly won't go on anyone's best-ever list, resting as it does in the realm of the merely above-average -- but it's still worth a couple hours of your time. "}{"Title":"Childish morality play, delivered with lots of energy","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes God likes to put two guys in a paper bag and just let 'em rip. - Gavin Banek Systems, not people, make society happen. - Michael King Roger Michell directs Changing Lanes. The plot? Samuel L. Jackson plays Doyle Gipson, an African American insurance salesman who's struggling with a divorce, AA meetings, financial problems and much stress. His car collides with Gavin Banek, played by Ben Affleck, who works for a law firm. Gipson is a man of integrity. A man who wants to do right by everyone. Banek, in contrast, is a wealthy shark routinely asked to do morally questionable deeds for his company. The duo's collision thus results in a sort of heated, class conflict. Unfolding over 24 hours, we watch as the couple lock horns, engage in battle, and attempt to ruin each other's lives.Despite some resemblance to Falling Down, Changing Lanes is a refreshingly old fashioned film, feeling like some noir potboiler or race-relations thriller from the 1950s, or perhaps even something Stanley Kramer (vomit) may have directed. It touches upon white entitlement, the psychic scars of disrespect, the dignity and depravity of human beings, and the importance of responsibility and responsible individual actions, but is smart enough to wrap this all up in thriller dynamics. Like most big studio films concerned with the nature of morality (our heroes cycle through temptation, redemption, anger, chaos and reflection), however, things are kept strictly on the level of personal, individual ethics. The systemic issues which make Gipson and Banek's lessons void and unworkable, are ignored.Michell would direct the truly offencive Morning Glory some years later.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie about Soul Encounter","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" To me, this movie was a depiction of the tension between the needs of the ego of the immature person and the needs of a person to follow their bliss and serve more than the ego as one becomes a true adult. The scene in front of the painting where Gavin Banek describes the girl at the beach is a description of a person wrenched between the house' they have spent their life building and the call TODAY to the life you were meant to live It's like you go to the beach. You go down to the water. It's a little cold. You're not sure you want to go in. There's a pretty girl standing next to you, and you know that if you just asked her your name, you would leave with her. Forget your life, whoever you came with, and leave the beach with her. And after that day, you remember. Not every day, every week&#x85; she comes back to you. It's the memory of another life you could have had. Today is that girl. Gavin (and Doyle?) finds the edge that everyone should find, where you find a way to use your talents in service of your calling. Unfortunately, usually first it involves the fall. Then, comes the lane change. I loved the acting and directing as well. "},{"Title":"Changing movie because it's one of the dumbest I have ever seen (dvd)","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is crazy they want us to believe that being late can destroy your life and that from this perfect chaos will come the greatest reward! I live in Paris and everyday i am late due to problems with subways, buses. When I came back from holiday, my train was 5 hours late and I was home at dawn instead of midnight and i had to work 3 hours later! Did my life explode? No because we adjust. Time is not at our whim and we can only surf with it.Then, the characters are unbelievable Affleck is a shark that realizes he is a shark. Jackson is a dumb maniac who ignores he is a dumb maniac. If it wasn't for Amanda, I would have never watched this crap. And even her moment is absurd in spite of having his clocked life on a wire, Mr Affleck stops everything to lunch with her.Well, now you know if you want to lose your patience, go try it! "},{"Title":"I was so terribly Wrong ...","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't worry the Spoiler is at the end and I'll warn you.So I wasn't expecting anything , to the matter of fact i was expecting something awful , boring and very commercial , but wait, I was so so Wrong this is a dark clever film , very well acted A surprise for me because if Ben Affleck is in a movie I think twice before I watch it (but I have to recognize lately he has being all right) and Samuel Jackson after snake on a plane I don't know what to expect but they did great.The script is very clever , dark and original the directing is nice nothing you haven't seem before but all properly crafted, the rest of the cast is solid and how could you go wrong with Sydney Pollack , William Hurt ,Tonni Collete ,Richard Jenkins...At the end I recomed this film specially if you catch it by surprise like me give it a change You'll not regret.***SPOILERRRR*** The only think I would have change is the end and I'm not saying is bad the one that the movie have , but it makes it alittle commercial , but at the same time it makes it fair; and that is a contradiction because one of the points of the story is showing that live isn't always fair. So I would have ended the film when they finish the conversation in the Cofee Shop after the day of all the events 11 minutes earlier that will be the Cannes film festival cut =) the other one you can take it to Hollywood. Anyways a great surprise.WATCH IT IF YOU CAN. "},{"Title":"Changing Lanes","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As other reviewers have stated too, you will probably feel that this movie is very uneven. But you might still like it. Which might feel strange, but comes down to the casting and a not so bad script. Of course Samuell L. Jackson has yet to disappoint in something he played in (though his movies are surely up for criticism, pick one of your choice) and Affleck is great in this too.It's of course a drama, but it is very suspenseful too. While some things seem just too coincidental, it still tries to stay as grounded in reality as much as it can. The mentioned performances and some nice story tweaks and twists help a lot. "},{"Title":"Such a hopeless world!","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One more lawyer in one more law firm and one more crooked situation. He is married to the daughter of the boss who is a crook and stealing money from some foundation. Circumstances put him in a road accident when he is on his way to the court with a man who is an Alcoholic Anonymous, divorced, in a lawsuit with his ex-wife about the custody of the kids and is on the way to the same court. The lawyer drops a file that is essential for his case and he strands the other man on the highway on foot. Both are late in court. The lawyer manages his way out under a strict deadline condition. The other one loses his case. And then everything goes down because each one will try to pressurize the other into repairing the damage and they will cause even more damage by doing so. The film then is a thriller in a way since we expect any moment more violence and more retribution and more vengeance. Dependence is the worst thing that can hit a man, be it tobacco, alcohol, drugs or plain catastrophe or anti-social reactions. Lawyers are all crooked and perverted and sick in their minds and you can decide to do more good everyday than you do evil, if you are a lawyer you can be sure you will never keep that word. So you better give five dollars to the beggar round the corner in the street that will probably be the only good action you will do today. Good action? My foot! Since that money is going to enrich a bar tender because the bum is going to drink it. And if you are a mischief maker, a catastrophe bringer, a crash perpetrator, you better stop drinking, stop smoking, stop getting under the influence of anything and retire into some kind of padded monastery or reclusion center for the mentally insane because there is no way you will change and the world will change. So better get used to it and let things go down the chute from bad to worse and then to the worst. Apart from that dark vision of life the film will keep you up for a while, awake too, because of the rather fast rhythm.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Crteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Revenge Is Not So Sweet","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck), a rising lawyer in a prestigious New York law firm, is on his way to court. He and his firm are being indicted on fraud charges and he has vital documents to file. Doyle Gipson (Samuel L.Jackson), a white-collar clerk, is hurrying to family court in a last desperate bid to hold on to his wife and two kids. He's a recovering alcoholic, in A.A., but his recovery is fragile. The two men engage in a minor fender-bender on a freeway, causing them to miss their court dates. They succumb to rage, and each sets out to make life miserable for the other guy. Gipson ends up with Banek's court documents, but Banek has power and money, and the will to use them.You're not addicted to alcohol or drugs, cries Gipson's frustrated A.A. sponsor (William Hurt). You're addicted to chaos! Meanwhile, back at the law firm, Banek discovers that he's swimming with sharks. In an electrifying scene his beautiful, high-maintenance wife lists, with chilling candour, her marital demands, and baby, they don't include love! Can the two men save themselves from an impending moral and spiritual implosion? In an age when Hollywood movies glorify revenge, Changing Lanes is a refreshing change of pace - a parable about the soul-destroying futility of getting even and suggests that we forgive our enemies and right the wrongs that we do.Banek is okay with picking on a little guy, and when he finally shows some guts and moral fibre at the end, it's a nice arc, and Ben Affleck is quite good. Jackson's performance as the alcoholic is touching and authentic - his character is the beating, troubled heart of the film. I've shown this movie to other men who are alcoholics and they've all loved it. You could hear a pin drop during the scene when Gipson pleads his case to the judge, saying that his little boy needs a dad. Yet the film also shows us the anger of a spouse who's life has been torn apart by an alcoholic. Terrific movie! "},{"Title":"Convincing if slightly clunky morality drama","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A version of Falling Down without a twist, Changing Lanes is a well- conceived 24-hour drama about doing the right thing in the modern world. It's a good title - the two principals get into a fender bender when they inadvertently cross lanes on a highway. Yet the lanes aren't really those of a road, rather they are the career and life paths that the two character seems to be following unquestioningly.The crash leaves both men late for a court appearance, a nice conceit in itself, given that the law is a practical civic expression of majority morality. The unsatisfactory outcome of their morning in court sets in motion a reactive game of tit for tat in which each blames the other for their misfortunes - but their own failings rise to the surface with alarming clarity. It's a good blend of action and revelation, although to effect the entire thing in a day stretches credulity to its limits.Affleck's flash-n-fresh lawyer Baneck is solid but not quite as good as Samuel L Jackson's Doyle; both labour manfully under the compressed schedule of episodes. Chap Taylor deserves credit for making a good film where a mediocre one was wispering sweet nothings in his ear throughout. 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most intelligent films of 2002.............","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ..........Sadly hindered by its pandered ending!Young upstart lawyer Gavin Banek and recovering alcoholic father Doyle Gipson, both have very important court appearances to keep. Unfortunately they have a minor collision on a New York freeway and during the confusion Banek loses a vital file, while Gipson misses his child custody appearance. Both men angry and bitter, start to take revenge against each other, a war that will either define both men or break them in two.Changing Lanes stars Ben Affleck Banek and Samuel L. Jackson Gipson, and is directed by Roger Michell Enduring Love. Both lead actors do fine work, and the direction is smooth and unobtrusive in its execution. But it's with the writing that Changing Lanes should be noted, written by Chap Taylor more known as a PA for Woody Allen and Michael Tolkin The Player & Deep Impact, Changing Lanes is much more than your average movie about someone having a crappy day. Marketed poorly as a film about men driven to the edge of insanity fuelled bloodthirsty revenge, the piece is intricate in its plot misdirections and adroit at keeping its characters from being stereotypes. These guys are just normal human beings, no daring do heroics or villainous traits to speak of, just your everyday stressed New York inhabitant trying to survive the rat race. Each man is poles apart socially, yet both are drawn together equally in their new found insanity!This is the crux of Changing Lanes' heart, just what will your average sane man to to another under duress? It begs a question that the writers here, thru a series of zippy twists, really open up the picture, the ironies of which are at first hard to appreciate. But Changing Lanes is a film that should be revisited, especially for those who didn't get the film that the trailer and the marketing campaign originally hinted at. Even allowing for the cop out ending, which smacks of a studio bigwig demanding an audience pleasing closure, it's a film that oozes intelligence and thought provoking astuteness. It took me two viewings to fully digest the excellence of its apparent normality, with one restaurant scene between Banek and his wife Cynthia Amanda Peet particularly worthy of another look. Undervaued and maybe a touch misunderstood, this most definitely is a picture worth closer consideration. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Every Action has a Reaction.","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes is certainly an enjoyable gripping drama. Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson both feature as lead roles and portray very different characters to what we are customary to. The film is in relation to Gavin Banek (Affleck) and Doyle Gibson (Jackson) who are two very different men with two very different lives. The storyline is fairly simple and easy to follow. It begins when both of their cars collide which results in Doyle's car being damaged. Both men are running late for court. Doyle (Jackson) has to go to court to deal with his divorce and custody of kids. Gavin (Affleck) has to attend court to show a file for the firm he works for. On the scene of the accident Gavin (Affleck) can't find his insurance card so he writes a blank cheque for Doyle (Jackson). Doyle strongly disagrees with this action and wants to do things right, despite the fact that he is also in a hurry. There is no stopping Gavin (Affleck) as he quickly returns to his car and escapes leaving Doyle (Jackson) on the scene of the accident.However, Gavin (Affleck) leaves behind a crucial file which is needed for his court case. This is left on the road and Doyle (Jackson) picks it up. When Gavin (Affleck) arrives in court without his file he is told it's possible that he will be sued and sent to jail along with his law firm if the file isn't retrieved. Doyle (Jackson) manages to get to his court case but unfortunately arrives 20 minutes late. The judge finishes off just as Doyle enters the court room concluding that Doyle's wife had won custody before Doyle got the chance to represent himself. This leaves both Gavin and Doyle irritated with each other and they begin to face moral consequences as they fight a battle in the modern world.I consider Changing Lanes as a very smart film. There is a lot of suspense and I had no idea how it would end as there were many twists and turns throughout. The script is predominantly dialogue and I was very impressed with the acting from both Jackson and Affleck. Affleck proved that he isn't just a movie star but is also a skilled actor. He normally doesn't have much dialogue and is often criticised for this. I like it when actors risk themselves by dealing with a different set of challenges. Jackson also played a character completely outside his boundary. He is normally casted as someone who's quite 'hip and cool'. The character he plays in this is the complete opposite and very awkward. The film focuses on two characters and I felt the film really explored them. The main appeal for me was observing them together as they are both at different ends of the scale and wouldn't have met under any other circumstance. Gavin (Affleck) is an idealistic young lawyer and Doyle (Jackson) is a desperate father who is a recovering alcoholic. They both get very malicious and go out of their comfort zone by doing things they've never done before. Roger Mitchell directed this after previously directing Notting Hill. He is a very creative director who I feel is underrated and this film proves it. Chap Taylor wrote the script and co-wrote the screenplay. I am very surprised that he hasn't written anything else to the present day or prior to Changing Lanes. I recommend this film to fans of both Affleck and Jackson. The film has elements of mystery, suspense and drama. I haven't slapped it on my top ten list and I don't think many will. However, it's enjoyable enough and I do recommend it to anyone curious. "}{"Title":"Two men out to destroy one another","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ben Affleck is a lawyer and Samuel L. Jackson is a man trying to do the right thing in Changing Lanes, a 2002 film also starring Toni Collette, Sydney Pollak and Kim Staunton. Affleck is attorney Gavin Banek, late for court, when he has a car accident involving Doyle Gipson (Jackson), who is also on his way to court to protest his wife taking his children to live way across the country. Not wanting to mess around with insurance companies, Banek offers to write Gipson a check. Gipson, however, is a recovering alcoholic and has made a commitment to do everything in a clean way. He wants to trade insurance cards. Banek can't be bothered and gets into his car, leaving Gipson standing on the highway in torrential rain, although he asked Banek for a lift.When Banek gets to court, he finds he does not have the power of authority necessary to prove that an elderly man knew what he was doing when he fired his board and assigned the law firm to administer his trust. He realizes that he left the folder at the scene. Gipson arrives to court too late to speak on his behalf and finds the Judge has made a decision against him. Banek is desperate to find Gipson and get his document back, since he has only until the end of the day to file it with the court. And Gipson? Well, he just isn't in the mood to return it. Thus begins a war with each man having the goal of total destruction of the other.Despite other comments on this board, I truly enjoyed this film and found the hard lessons learned by both men as the result of a random accident very interesting. Banek is encouraged by an ex-girlfriend (Collette) to question the power of authority and the role of the law firm in administering the trust; Jackson comes up against his own acting-out behavior, rage, and as his ex-wife says, addiction to drama.Changing Lanes is about changing one's path in life from a crooked road to a straight one. It's about values, and it may not be to everyone's taste. The acting was excellent, the film had a fresh feel to it, and I found it thought-provoking. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Wimpy movie","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The best things in Changing Lanes are, by order of appearance the opening credits traffic shots with David Arnold's score and Sydney Pollack (with the kind of supporting job that works even when the story fails). I couldn't believe my eyes watching Toni Collette playing so badly (was it really her?), Samuel L. Jackson seemed to underplay every beat in this generally asthmatic movie and to stay in line Ben Affleck is as bad as ever. Since no actor seems to shine, let's blame it on the director.As for the story itself it drags its feet. A more accurate title would be Switching gears, back and forth, between gently nice people and dirty bad characters without even knowing where to go. Actually Affleck and Jackson are alternatively on the verge of being very very angry and violent then fall in some kind of lethargic redemption. This simply goes nowhere so it's a great relief for the audience when we're thru with this passive continuity of characters lamely bumping into glass doors. "},{"Title":"A blind, tolerable, uncategorized  film","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a bit difficult to explain what kind of movie you see. It's not a drama (two different guys - one of them a lawyer, the other an ex-alcoholic- in a rainy small car accident that change their lives during one single day), it's not a thriller (the efforts of the lawyer to find a special courier which is the only document for the court), it has to do with fate, how you can change your way of living by knowing yourself. The screenplay drives towards to the wall of not being something very interesting, some of the performances are tolerable (particularly those from Samuel L. Jackson and Toni Collette) , the rest of them are simple dull (Ben Affleck once again plays a stupid character and we can't see an interesting expression in his face). A great disappointment from the director of Notting Hill (Roger Michell) , a rare one from the screenwriter of the Player (Michael Tolkin) "},{"Title":"An Important Aspect being Overlooked  ( slight spoiler included )","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not many could fully understand the meaning of Doyle's AA sponsor's comment regarding Doyle's addiction to chaos ... unless/until they've experienced chronic alcoholism. I barely survived 50 years of it -- and that's precisely why I (now after 20 years of genuine sobriety) not only recommend this movie to everyone I know in AA, but I absolutely insist on it for everyone I sponsor.( slight spoiler follows ) Please try to realize just how fortunate you are to actually have no earthly idea what it was like for Doyle to leave that bourbon with a twist sitting untouched after what he had just experienced in court. Very few new AA members could have done it -- or even attempted it!I suspect the writers//directors/producers have (at least) relatives and/or close friends whose experiences they could draw on, since they captured the essence of these dynamics so keenly.Great job! Great movie!! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Affleck and Jackson's clash of the titans is a powerful tale of despair and decisiveness","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes is probably one of the most unappreciated films of the past decade, being pushed farther and farther into oblivion by heaps of blockbusters and uber-blockbusters. While these tend to come with general good intentions of stealing your money and occasionally entertain during the process, it's those neglected films like this that make me really appreciate modern day cinema for what it is.Changing Lanes is an original tale of two strangers whose course of lives accidentally bump into each other &#150; initiating a personal war between the two. Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck, in one of his last roles before the notorious Gigli crash-and-burn) is an ambitious lawyer on his way to an important court sitting. Doyle Gipson (Samuel Jackson, who seems to have appeared in every second film to come out this decade) is a middle-lower class businessman, a former alcoholic who is on his way to a custody hearing with his ex-wife. A minor car accident between the two men causes Gipson to miss the hearing; after Banek refuses to give him his details or help him out, despite being directly responsible for the accident. However, Gipson discovers he has some papers Banek needs badly, and he now has every intention to make him pay for stranding him in his most desperate hour. Now, the two men have everything to lose, but instead of helping each return to the normal course of their lives, they end up hurting each other again and again in what turns into a personal, breathtaking vendetta.Affleck and Jackson's clash of the titans is a powerful tale of despair and decisiveness. Its plot is more than meets the eye, containing numerous subtle ideas as well as the obvious ones displayed on screen. For those who haven't seen it, it's a gripping experience; one that makes you reach deep within yourself and ponder - how would you react if you were one the wrong side of the accident? "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a merely adequate movie. The acting from the leads is good. Samuel L. Jackson especially did a great job of showing rage. It was a thankless role as you could tell he would rather be doing something else. Ben Affleck is good as the sleazy lawyer who eventually does the right thing. So watch this movie only for the two leads.Other than that, the movie doesn't get better. It starts out fine but gets boring from there. I really preferred the TV movie Outrage with Rob Lowe, a movie similar to Changing Lanes, but was better. The characters are all really unsympathetic. The supporting cast, especially the lawyer's father-in-law, and his partner, acted and delivered lines appropriate of the supporting cast in a high school play. I won't give the ending away but it should have been better.You might watch this for the great but wasted performances of the two leads. However, the biggest reason to watch this is to see if it gets better and presents interesting action and drama. Too bad that doesn't happen here. "},{"Title":"A frustratingly good entertainer","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" While I often have no problem watching films for what they are -- pleasant diversions that set out to entertain -- I have to admit I've got a particular affinity for movies that induce a certain degree of introspection while under the guise of a popcorn entertainer. It would be easy to dismiss 'Changing Lanes' as another piece of mindless drivel that Hollywood churns out oh-so-regularly. But look a little closer, and you will begin to notice that this is a very frustrating film. Our dichotomous minds like to think in terms of black and white, evil and good, Darth and Luke. This film is refreshingly different because it presents us with two diametrically opposing characters; and just like in real life, it has been left for us to decide who we want to root for. On one hand is Ben Affleck's hotshot attorney who's rushing off to meet a court appointment deadline. On the other hand is Samuel L. Jackson's alcoholic insurance salesman who is also in a rush for a hearing over the custody of his children. Their mid-highway car collision quickly escalates from road rage to unscrupulous vengeance and then utter moral breakdown. As we fascinatedly watch their cat-and-mouse game of one-upmanship, we shockingly realise that these ethically challenged individuals could very well be a mirror for ourselves. The movie obstinately refuses to side with any one character, presenting each one as a mix of the vile and the pitiable. The dubious moral ground that these characters stand on leave us questioning the world we live in, where nothing is as simple as choosing between the chocolate mudcake and the strawberry sorbet... there's always got to be that lemon meringue pie! "},{"Title":"Now this is the kind of movie you sit down and watch.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I sat down to watch this movie on television, when I finally decided that sitting down to finish predictable, sub par action films and Lifetime mystery stories, but passing up the more excellent films just wasn't acceptable.So, despite having else planned I stayed in the family room and watched the movie.For once, I didn't even feel the slightest pang of regret.The movie was as good as I expected. Samuel L. Jackson was the perfect choice to play Doyle Gipson. Jackson has always managed to have a somewhat comedic quality, a satirical one, for none of his antics or even the events that befall him should be funny, and yet, they are.I absolutely loved the plot, as it was the perfect mixture of parody, exaggerated circumstances and real-life drama. It made me laugh, it made me feel worried sympathy, and it also managed to keep me on the edge of my seat- and didn't attempt to achieve the last by direct physical conflict between the characters.Whoever said that Ben Afleck was a bad actor, obviously hasn't seen him in this movie. He too played his role perfectly, and a few of his scenes were especially impressive.A quick note that I would like to add in this review. If you have seen, and liked Falling Down with Michael Douglas, Barbara Hershey, and Robert Duvall, then you would definitely enjoy this movie as well. The crazy, sometimes incredulous sequence of events in Changing Lanes reminded me a lot of Falling Down. "},{"Title":"Excellent and unusual piece of art","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A strange film. I caught it on TV not from the beginning. The way it's put on stage draws attention at once. Lots of silence, close-ups (even just parts of faces). Some internal tension. Different plot lines are interlaced in sound and pictures... I even thought that must be some famous director, but I don't know him (although it proves nothing, I'm not an all-knowing movie geek).To honestly say, the story itself didn't catch me too much, since its essence can be very roughly put out as two mules set against each other on a narrow bridge over the abyss. The tension appearing accidentally between formerly unfamiliar to each other lawyer (Affleck) and businessman (Jackson), each of whom has guts and power, grows into vengeance rage of the kind when you try to kill a fly with a sledge-hummer. At the same time both of them have their own moral and principles, which undergo a transformation in the finale of the story (actually a kind of stories I appreciate). Well, emotionally it's not my elements, but the way the film is set, directed, filmed is truly gripping. Those are two (at least) equal righted stories of life, deep, extended, very psychological.Each character impresses with the depth of his personality, internal tension, a whole life can be sensed very brightly behind every sentence even of second plan characters and all is performed very well - a rare thing for Hollywood with its little demand for psychological acting!... I was particularly impressed by lawyer's wife, Michel, by her woman internal beauty, softness, tenderness, depths of feelings and understanding... all that while she advised her husband to compromise with his consciousness for which he never went. It is in general impossible to judge any characters right or wrong. The story is told from either side. A beauty of each personality and a truth of their beliefs can be seen very well in the same time as the unresolvable conflict between all of them. Well, I know the idea is not new to me, but the main is that it is brilliantly fulfilled! The most funny thing is that from the first moments of the movie I caught, I recognized Affleck from behind! While he's not among my favourites and I haven't seen many movies with him (well, if you count Dogma 15 times, may be I'm understating ) ) This mad me understand he must have some very specific gesturing manners, a kind of clearly recognizable bodywrite...Well, the essence of the final transformations of main heroes escaped me - I lost what and how exactly turned their beliefs upside-down (may be I was distracted by something or should have watched from the very beginning). But anyway I took immense pleasure in seeing this beautiful unusual piece of movie are. A very interesting movie! "},{"Title":"The Vicious Cycle of Revenge","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roger Michell directs a movie that is gripping, thought-provoking, thrilling and cleverly written. 'Changing Lanes' is pretty much a cycle of revenge that starts with an accident caused by corporate lawyer Gavin Banek who hits recovering alcoholic father Doyle Gipson, as both, unbeknownst to the other are on the way to court for different reasons. From then on each drastic act of revenge escalates to another more extreme act leading to more severe consequences. Michell gets to the point right from the beginning and from then on his focus remains on these two characters. Moving at a steady pace, he adds plenty of energy not leaving any room for a dull moment. In addition Chap Taylor's writing is superb. Not only are the characters well written and the story grabs the viewer's attention right up till the end, but his dialogues are very effective as they mix of humour and wit with irony and drama.Samuel L. Jackson delivers one of his finest performances. He is very relatable as the recovering alcoholic father who is trying his best to stay clean and be a good father and to some day win back his estranged wife but unfortunately he keeps finding himself in complex situations. The actor is restrained when required and explosive when needed. Ben Affleck gives his first good performance (which shows his potential after being in the industry for a long time) and he has since given some great performances in 'Hollywoodland' and 'Extract'. The supporting cast is formed by an ensemble of talents that include Toni Collette, Kim Staunton, Dyland Baker, Amanda Peet, Richard Jenkins and Sydney Pollack.'Changing Lanes' has all the ingredients of a clever gripping thriller. However, it could be argued that the ending was a bit safe. Even though things are rounded up well, I wonder how it would have been if Michell continued with the escalating cycle of revenge until it ended with disastrous consequences. "}{"Title":"Second Rate","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" CHANGING LANES **1/2 Director Roger Michell and scripter Chap Taylor take an uneven approach in delivering the premise of this second rate film. Ben Affleck is late for an appointment in court and in the process of driving there, he collides with motorist Samuel L. Jackson. He leaves an important document at the scene of the crash, and has to track down Jackson to see if he had picked it up. Due to the lack of depth Michell and Taylor integrate into the film's suspense, intrigue, humanity, and drama, they needn't have bothered making this a full length feature since most of the picture is rather empty. Viewers who adore any Affleck or Jackson vehicle will be pleased, but don't expect much entertainment out of it. "},{"Title":"This Movie should be at An Eight","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie should really be at an eight out of ten. It is so psychologically taught and impressive. The story is very good, and the acting as well. It is one of those rare things, a compelling morality tale that does not feel overly didactic or preachy. Ben's best role and Samuel L. Jackson's best role in the last few years. Sydney Pollack is great in these kinds of roles, the friend/mentor the protagonist consults over a moral dilemma--he played that same kind of role in Stanley Kubrick's last film before he died, Eyes Wide Shut. I actually own this movie on DVD, and I have to say it does indeed reward reviewing. "},{"Title":"this movie has been copied in BollywoodTaxi 9211","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" the story starts with a single event changing the day for two men . and worst of all they are the ones who hold the keys to each others futures. so they go around troubling each other the whole day , nobody the wiser and realizing that ,they are not mad at others but themselves .and they are to blame for all the mess of their lives. this movie has been remade in Bollywood ,namedTaxi 9211. the actors like Nana Patekar and John Ibrahem have done a great job and it is fun to watch it . all in all sometimes only your enemy can help you by doing the worst to you. so keep your friends close and enemy closer. worth watching many times. "},{"Title":"Nine tenths short of a good film","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" So, you think that 90 minutes of lawyer (and arrogant bastard) Affleck, and down-on-his-luck (and ill-tempered) Jackson fighting each other in the middle of New York in a case of who-screwed-who's-life, sounds like a pretty fun idea? Well, it quite good as well. Sadly, though, Changing Lanes only has about 10 minutes of said fun. The rest of the time, the two unsympathetic characters are mostly bitching and whining other over the phone, trying to find new ways of messing with each other. Those parts only serve to show just how limited actors Affleck and Jackson really are. Yes, even Jackson, who still seems to be doing his Pulp Fiction thing.The film wants to show the audience how important it is that we all get along; Affleck's young rich white guy, versus Jackson's older poorer black guy. How about easing off the stereotypes and switched roles for the two leads. That would have given the film some much needed dynamics. Well meaning as the film makers are, they throw in some lines about how African-Americans can achieve success without the help of white people. Of course, they make sure that in the very schmaltzy ending, Affleck comes to the rescue and saves Jackson. Way to go guys! As mentioned earlier, there are some fun moments when Affleck and Jackson battle it out in an over-the-top fashion, but they come few and far apart. Dylan Baker is also great in a small role, but that's about it. Otherwise, it's predictable, quite ugly looking, and with a musical score that's so out of place that it's horrifying. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A good thought provoking drama/thriller showing that everyone has their highs and lows.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson and is directed by Roger Mitchell. This movie shows that we all have our real highs and our real lows in life.The story just happens to all be on a Good Friday that doesn't seem to be that good after all. I believe all of this is happening in New York. Gavin Banek (Affleck) and Doyle Gipson (Jackson) are two busy men that are in a hurry to life-changing events. Banek is a lawyer and off to an important case that he can't lose while Gipson is off to a divorce court to save his kids. They're on the highway in a rush and get in an accident. They then, being in their rushing moods, are disoriented and continue their days in awkward ways. Within the 20-minute mark of the movie, both protagonists already are at their lowest and they're trying to make things right. They can't and they get even lower, involving even more people within their rage, this not necessarily being there's a good guy or a bad guy. Their struggles to bring each other down become even lower and lower, this entirely still happening on Good Friday.Overall, Changing Lanes is a great gripping drama with some thrilling elements and shows you how bad life can get unintentionally. There are definitely great performances by Jackson and Affleck and great direction by Mitchell. The screenplay is awesome in its own way. It's a great dramatic performance from 2002.My Rating 8/10Eliason A. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have not been this captivated by a movie since I first saw The Shawshank Redemption.No CGI, no fancy fights, or pathetic sex or nude scenes to try to keep your attention.  If you're looking for mindless eye candy.........you will be disappointed.Some people have said that it is a thriller.  I do not agree.  It certainly was not edge of the seat stuff.  I think that it was simply a powerful drama but there was alot more going on under the surface 'road rage'.Just a well directed story line and superb acting.......and surprisingly, one that I've enjoyed watching over again.  The scene near the end of the movie where Gavin Banek is at a restaurant with his wife and in-laws is absolutely superb.Its been a long time, but this one gets full marks from me. "},{"Title":"pretty good drama...","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A few spoilers below am sure!I'm not sure about the two leads' reconcilliation, if you want to call it that, at the end, considering the sheer lengths they went to ruin each others' lives-but okay, Hollywood doesn't want anything unresolved.I liked how they went after each other, I appreciated Sydney Pollack's Very cold blooded character and the fact that his daughter was clearly cut from the same cloth. They deserve one another.A few not so believable moments, some good touches like the fist-fight outside the bar-another good Affleck and Jackson movie.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Decent thriller, excellent Jackson!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is a good, well paced thriller, albeit a little over the top at times. This film features some good crisp direction from Roger Michell and a strong cast. The film has little logic and the idea is very Hollywood, but it is executed very well. Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) and Doyle Gibson (Samuel L Jackson) are involved in a freeway smash, whilst both are in a hurry to be at important court appearances. Banek, a Lawyer, who should have known better, leaves the scene and leaves Gibson on his own when he has to be at an important custody case involving his ex wife and two sons. Banek has also left important documents at the scene which he needs. So having lost his kids for the sake of being 20 minutes late thanks to Banek, he decides not to give the documents back to Banek, and this starts a chain of events of Banek doing things like bankrupting Gibson, to get his files back and Gibson retaliating.Ben Affleck has always had one complaint levelled at him in the last few years, in that his career is too hit and miss. Not just the standard of his films but his own performances as well. Ben can either look like a good actor or a bad actor, he as yet has not looked like a great actor. Changing Lanes marks a tick by the side of it in Affleck's CV. He is good here as the Lawyer who becomes the catalyst for this remarkable day of revenge.Samuel L Jackson rarely has such complaints about his acting but one thing can be levelled at him in one respect, and that is a degree of typecasting. He has different roles, yes, but he always plays cool characters. Here Jackson plays a normal guy, not cool, but flawed. His character is made so that the audience feels sympathy for him, and we do thanks to Jackson's performance. I also have to agree with the general critical consensus that this is Jackson's best performance in years. The rest of the cast are good, including Toni Collette.The film has a good pace to it and never gets boring and despite the fact it all gets a bit over the top before a rather Hollywood ending. The films ending is a bit to tidy and a bit to nice but by the end we start to feel for Jackson's character and Affleck's character also becomes more ethical and sees his own life in a different light. The day itself becomes an indicator for both men about where their lives are going wrong. I didn't mind the nice ending despite the fact it felt very typical of Hollywood. I felt that I wanted things to come good for Jackson.Overall this is a good thriller, better than most that Hollywood are churning out these days. Jackson shines here playing against his usual type. ***1/2/*****  "},{"Title":"original and touching","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie so much better then I expected. It got me hooked all the way untill the end. It was fascinating to see how much courage is needed to break with the trance of vengeance, anger, greed etc. I love movies which brings these kind of human issues without being cheesy. They made a heartfull point in an exciting way. They script way really nicely balanced, highly recomended. And please don't watch this movie from an aloof attitude, get into it, it's a nice ride... 9 "},{"Title":"Real Disappointment","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gees, what could I say about movie. I'm really disappointed. I was really looking forward to see it cause in the trailer it seem so damn good and very much convincing, that I'm 100% sure it going to be damn good. With no hesitation I brought the movie, and watch it. What a let down I might say. Maybe, it is because I have like high expectation that why I don't find it to be that good.The story is pretty OK, but it seem more like Tom and Jerry chasing around and tried to hurt each other. What I hate the most was the endings that is really stupid and make this movie turn out so cheap, that make you seem like romantic movie rather than Thriller.Rating 5/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wall Street lawyer Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) has an important court case.  He got a dying old man to sign over his company to his for (he believes) the good of the people.  Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson) has an important court date also.  He's a recovering alcoholic and his divorced wife is moving (with his 2 children) from NY to Oregon.  He just bought a house in Queens to get his wife to stay but has to show that to a judge.  Both of them are speeding to their respective courts and Banek callously cuts off Gipson causing an accident.  He tries to brush off Gipson with a blank check but Gipson wants to do the right thing.  Banek, in a hurry, leaves the guy accidentally dropping an important file.  Gipson is late for the court date and loses custody of his kids.  He has Banek's file which Banek needs desperately.  Will Gipson give it back?Sounds like just a play by the numbers Hollywood thriller but it isn't.  It turns into a morality play about ethics and what is right and wrong.  What's surprising is that it's an INTELLIGENT, well-written movie.  It's filmed with jittery camerawork, muted color and mostly in darkness or shade.  It gives the film a very bleak, negative look perfectly fitting the screenplay.  Also Affleck is just superb in his role.  I did have a little trouble believing that he was so shocked by some wrong-doing but he pulls it off.  In fact, in a recent interview, Affleck says this was his best acting.  He's right.  Jackson is just good as Affleck.  He has the more challenging role--his character slowly implodes as his life falls apart.  Jackson pulls it off brilliantly.  Also good in supporting roles are Amanda Peet as Banek's wife (she has a just great restaurant sequence with him) and Sydney Pollack excels as the head of the company.  The film does have a formula Hollywood ending (that's why I'm only giving it an 8) but, until the point, it's just great.  Also director Roger Mitchell has many nice directorial touches when he intercuts between Affleck and Jackson.An intelligent script, great direction and two powerhouse performances.  What more can you ask for?  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good thriller","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Samuel L. Jackson. He has an amazing range. We love everything he does in my family!!! He delivered once again in this thriller about two men whose lives are altered forever by a little fender bender.I'm not a big fan of Ben Affleck. I've been disappointed in his choice of films of late. However, he did a great job in this movie, and made Banek a sympathetic character. Anyway, it's a role of Affleck's that I can appreciate. A lot of twists and turns make this film impossible to predict, so it's a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"movie with something on its mind","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing lanes will provoke the viewer to consider vengeance vs. forgiveness, compassion vs. greed, deception vs. truth and all kinds of other ethical issues.  Adding to the complexity, these wrestling matches take place in the context of legal practice, wills, parenting, AA and other common grounds we all can relate to.  For the viewer who knows something about AA, this is a particularly provocative, multi-layered movie.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Interesting but ...","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes (2002)The movie stars Ben Affleck as Gavin Banek and Samuel L. Jackson as Doyle Gipson. Both were rushing to the courts one day and they had an accident. In his hurry to rush to the court, Affleck left behind a important file and Jackson picks it up.The story has an interesting plot but is kind of weak. Being a lawyer, Gavin Banek as a educated man, has no need to be mean. If he is the mafia or a junkie, then it will seem realistic for him to be rude right from the start. Probably, if he has been nice from the start, there will be no movie to make.Toni Collette co-stars as Michelle, Affleck co-worker whom he is romantically involved. You will get to see William Hurt and Dylan Baker too. Dylan Baker is real cool and acted the part of a computer hacker.Possible SpoilersThe version of this movie on DVD has been cut and censored. There are 2 scenes which the cuts are clumsily done.The car accident that Ben Affleck had. He was driving and Samuel L. Jackson cruise by in a taxi. Jackson showed Affleck some bolts in this hand. Next, Affleck's car wheel came off and he crashed. What Jackson did to cause the wheel to come off was cut from the DVD.Jackson came out from the bar. He made a phone call from the payphone. Two guys came out from the bar too and shouted at him. They approached him and what follows is cut. Next Jackson is seen beating these guys up.Rating 5.5/10 (uncut/uncensored version) 2.5/10 (Cut/censored version) "},{"Title":"an intelligent thriller","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this movie was so interesting cause you weren't sure who the bad guy was. maybe because neither was and maybe because they both were.  it showed why people do the wrong thing sometimes, rather than just have some crazy guy stalking the other. "},{"Title":"Change the Channel!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is the point of this movie? The situations were so artificial that it was difficult to enter the suspension of belief mode, despite this movie's attempts to present a realistic scenario.POTENTIAL SPOILER ALERT!!!The whole setup, where Affleck, the hotshot Wall St. Esquire, runs into Samuel Jackson, a down on his luck recovering alcoholic who's trying to keep his family from moving to the West Coast, is impossible to accept. Specifically, the premise that Jackson has lost his day in court because he showed up late due to Affleck's having left the scene of the accident is unrealistic. All he had to do was get to a phone and call the police, or just wait for the high probability that a passing motorist would call 911 with a cell phone, get a police report and show it to the judge. He would then have been in a great position to collect big bucks from Affleck's auto insurance and been able to get an even nicer house. Plus Affleck would be in trouble for having left the scene.Second, I found it impossible to accept that a presumably capable attorney such as Affleck's character would not be so careless as to not have made COPIES of a document as important as the one he left with Jackson. To put it another way, do they really expect us to believe he only had ONE COPY, ESPECIALLY when the person who signed is is DECEASED????No, I can't accept it. Then the tit for tat thing is old and was done much better, and much more amusingly, by Laurel and Hardy in their famous short, Tit for Tat.Many other details were simply too preposterous to accept, such as the private eye/hacker being able to nullify Jackson's credit in just a few keystrokes. Jackson had all sorts of verified documentation. Then the extreme convenience of Affleck's wheel coming off RIGHT ON CUE on the expressway was just too much. But all of this would be moot in light of the problems outlined in the first paragraph. This movie is one of the most gratuitous I've seen in years.Maybe the point was to ignore these bothersome facts and concentrate on the morality lesson the movie attempts to give us, but I just found the whole thing to be silly.....  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about conscientious","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this is not only a thrilling movie, but alsow quiet beautiful to lock at. The seenplay, the music and the actors fit perfectly together. The story is mainly about how much you can bend your conscientious. And this is tryed on to very different persons hwo only have one thing in comment, thay have everything to lose.  "},{"Title":"Memorable and engrossing","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The events may seem a bit contrived (by an action movie standard, though, not in the slightest), but for good reason. In that way it was more like a stage script in the best sense, with the competition of ideas right in front of you. This is actually an intelligent Hollywood movie (didn't know they still made them) that takes you on a journey with two characters to the depths of their respective characters. It goes to the edge of the moral dilemmas much as Woody Allen's probing Crimes and Misdemeanors. I found it brave work on the parts of Sam Jackson and Ben Affleck in that they were playing protagonists but didn't shy away from dark and troubled behavior. It's a tribute to the director that all the actors looked great and come across with dimension. Toni Collette continues shine as the one of the best character actors in the biz. Dylan Baker had me chuckling excessively.For my money this beat all the year's Oscar nominees. Be warned, it might actually make you think. Even when it's over. "},{"Title":"Too illogical for me","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't all good lawyers know that a person can be sued for damages? Attorneys are criticized as if they are crooks but I think they all would use the law when it benefited them at least.In this movie, reporting a crime would have benefited the lawyer. Threatening to sue would have benefited the lawyer. Instead the lawyer does things that makes the movie much more dramatic but very stupid. It is so stupid that I can't enjoy the movie.The attorney does something to try to get the other person to return his property (early in the movie) but has problems getting it undone later. It is the difficulty of getting it undone that is the reason why such things are seldom done in the manner shown in this movie. However that is obviously the only way the author knew to make the movie dramatic.Without the name-brand actors, this movie would get much more criticism.  "},{"Title":"Gets Only Passing Grade","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While the idea holds much promise, Ben Affleck is not convincing as a wall street lawyer. I certaintly don't want him to represent me. Affleck is acceptable or even effective as Matt Damien's loser buddy in Good Will Hunting. For other roles he is really a stretch. Much better in this movie is Sam L Jackson. He is a decent man but seemed to always have bad luck on his side. We all know and empathisize with characters like this. Sidney Pollack is the hard-nosed, senior partner, and father-in-law. Nice to see him on this side of the camera. Where has he been?  He turns in a Jason Robot like performance here. William Hurt's role was cameo and serves to deliver a comment about Jackson's messed up life. You are addicted to trouble, he said to Jackson. All in all, I am glad I did not pay big bucks to see this in a movie theater.  "}{"Title":"Better luck next time!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this isn't the best film everyone will see in their lives I still really enjoyed this movie!This is definately a better progression in the industry for Roger Michell whose previous film was the Hugh Grant/Julie Roberts puke fest Notting Hill. This to was a brilliant return to form by Samuel L. Jackson, everyone loves Jackson but it is my opinion that he often puts his name onto a lot of nonsense (the upcoming Basic anyone!?!).Both Jackson and the always rising star that is Ben Affleck to the job in this film, but DO NOT be expecting a roller coaster ride of action!The film is all about pace and this story line must have a build up to really enjoy the end product, this isn't about guns and car chases!The support to a great job from love interest Toni Collette to the slimey Sydney Pollack and (all be it brief) Amanda Peet.Why I think this was such a good film was I could feel the tension and frustration going through Gavin (Affleck) and Doyle's (Jackson) minds as there day goes from bad to worse!A great film to rent! "},{"Title":"A simple accident leads to a series of revenges which spiral out of control..","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers(!)Changing Lanes is a modern day tale of taking things 'one step too far.' It tells the tale of a duo whose lives clash at a critical point, which causes them to both explode into violence and malice as they take vengence on each other, for the period of a day. I liked many aspects of this film. It's almost entirely plausable in its on way, with the events unravelling in a startlingly realistic fashion. Seemingly a tale, ultimately, of 'Boy meets World,' the two protaganists realise what they are doing and discover what is really wrong in their lives, before going off on a happy ending.Pretty good,8/10 "},{"Title":"Original yes but...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has given the best result possible out of a relatively original story, but that was obviously never going to work on screen...Nevertheless Changing Lanes is an good entertaining thriller with very good acting (especially Samuel L. Jackson ).Still something missing though....(?)7/10 "},{"Title":"great variety of characters","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved it. It really brings you inside of the characters, they make you think about their actual situation, and whole movie has very much of a reality sense. It mixes purity, honesty, pain, desperation, success, money, love, foulness, guilt .... all together  -  great variety of characters and awesome acting. "},{"Title":"not bad but it does drag a bit.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Samuel L Jackson and Ben Afleck seem to be the most prolific actors in Hollywood at the moment , seemingly knocking out several films a year and because of this you would have thought that this would affect their reputation and that they would produce quite a few turkeys along the line. This does not deem to be the case with these two. Changing Lanes is an above average thriller that for the most point is entertaining although i did find myself looking at my watch after about an hour but that soon stopped. Jackson is the better of the two stars and gives a performance that ranks amongst his best. The story is interesting and believable which is a refreshing change for most top films. Not bad at all. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent drama, but...","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film would have been much better had they shaved 20 minutes off it's running time. The ending drags on way too long and so do several of the 'character building' scenes throughout.For once, I wasn't annoyed by Ben Affleck and Jackson phones in his usual competent performance. It does take believability further than similar conflict driven stories do.Decent film. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Changing Lanes is both a superb thriller and character study.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** 1/2 out of ****Changing Lanes happens to feature two movie stars in the lead roles and is funded by Paramount Pictures, one of the top film production studios. So is it with anything less than pure surprise that this doesn't turn out to be an action or buddy picture? Not only does this film happen to be a character-driven thriller, it's also an intriguing look at societal pressures on the human individual, delivering in a manner that is intense, edgy, and perhaps even quite frightening.Ben Affleck stars as Gavin Banek and Samuel L. Jackson is Doyle Gipson. Banek is a high-priced lawyer who is ready to finalize a big deal with will turn over a recently deceased millionaire's entire fortune to his firm. Gipson is a recovering alcoholic who's doing everything he can (mainly by purchasing a house in Queens for them to settle in) to save his marriage and keep his wife from taking the children and moving to another state. Both Banek and Gipson are on their way to court when their cars crash into each other. Gipson wants to get everything done legally, the right way, but Banek is in too much of a hurry, so he simply leaves a blank check and takes off to court, leaving the other man stranded. However, Banek leaves the most important file at the scene of the accident (which Gipson is now in possession of), and Gipson misses his own court hearing, losing any chance for custody of his kids to his wife. Banek's determination to get the file back and Gipson's anger and frustration turns this cross of paths into a game of cat-and-mouse and revenge which makes for probably the most lopsided day of their lives.Changing Lanes is a film that surprised me almost every minute of the way. There's a lot of plot and theme at work here, but I want to emphasize that this is hardly pretentious filmmaking; it's an honest look at just how far pressure can push normal men, as well as how such pressure can bring out the best qualities in these same people. After a rather clumsy introduction and a chaotically directed crash scene that felt rather rushed, the film settled in comfortably into its main story. On the surface, the movie plays perfectly well as a thriller, certainly enough to satisfy thriller buffs looking for hard-edged suspense. But further yet, the film becomes a character study of two men who lead opposite lives, but perhaps aren't as dissimilar as each may think. Rich and affluent, Affleck's Banek is a man on the top, but despite his seemingly arrogant and impatient behavior, he displays a moral and conflicted center, torn by what's right and what everyone else-namely his boss, co-workers, wife-says is right. Undoubtedly the most complex character Affleck has ever played, this is also the young actor's best performance to date.Samuel L. Jackson is easily one of the best actors around, and his portrayal here is absolutely terrific, perhaps his most substantial performance since his role in Pulp Fiction. Gipson is certainly less priveleged than Banek, and this societal gap displays an interesting effect once things get out of hand. Gipson represents the majority of us, the working middle class that's frustrated when fate hands him a wrong turn. The disastrous day that Gipson endures is affecting, and it's both simultaneously crushing and exhilarating to see a reasonable man go to the extremes. There are far more themes at work here, and I've only touched on the surface. For instance, there's a powerful scene where Amanda Peet (as Banek's wife) delivers a coldly manipulative speech that clues us in as to why Banek would cheat on his beautiful wife with a less physically attractive, but far kinder, more emotionally supportive woman (played well by Toni Collete). Another similarly powerhouse sequence is Sydney Pollack's (playing Banek's boss) diatribe on ethics in business and why the cutthroat method is the only effective tool for pressing business matters. With an abundance of moments like these, there's so much theme at work in the script that the film simply demands repeat viewings.Changing Lanes is always entertaining, thanks to Roger Mitchell's well-paced and sure-handed direction, and the script never falters when it comes to both story and thematic material, mixing both together without ever coming off as preachy. The film has lots to offer, and for viewers willing to take the ride, the rewards are plentiful. It's been a fine year for movies so far, and without a doubt, Changing Lanes is one of the best cinematic offerings to date.   "},{"Title":"Benny Has Road Rage","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is a very enjoyable melodrama that keeps the viewer hooked until the last fifteen minutes. The film starts as Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson turn a simple fender bender on FDR Drive in Manhattan into psychotic road rage. As the day wears on they set out to ruin each other's lives through a campaign of dirty tricks, or as the movie's tagline explains, `One wrong turn deserves another.' It's a good premise, nicely acted by Affleck and Jackson, and well told by British director Roger Michell, whose work here is particularly surprising as his previous efforts haven't been thrillers, but comedies (Notting Hill) and period drama (Persuasion). It's familiar territory. 1993's Falling Down breathes the same air as Changing Lanes in a story about a man pushed past his limit, and the consequences of his rage. Unlike Falling Down, Changing Lanes delves deeply into the reasons for the anger, and the characters don't like what they see. Both Affleck and Jackson realize that they are more afraid of themselves, and what they have turned into, than each other. The movie remains strong until things start to fall apart near the end. Tacking on a happy Hollywood ending seriously undermines the power of this story.  "},{"Title":"Starts out exciting and then fades away","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another example of the credo, A good part of creative genius is knowing when to quit.  This could have been a great and exciting social drama, but in the end gets hung up on a trailing plot and platitudes.  Both Affleck and Jackson deliver excellent performances, but instead of winding things up and leaving us awed, things just drag on.I could not bring myself to finish the rented video, not even the last ten minutes. "},{"Title":"Would prefer to see more of Jackson","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For those looking for a psychological and philosophical film, this is the one for you. It questions basic understanding of revenge and goes against the usual mantra of if there is a reaction, there will be an opposite and equal reaction. Not quite anyway.The pace might be a slow for some but this is all for the sake of character development.However, I would have love to see more of jackson instead instead of affleck all the time. It gives the audience an impression that it is more about him than it is about the two main characters of the movie.I like the fact that music accompaniment is used when it is needed and not when silence is called for. Perhas this is one of the reasons why some people might find the pace slow and boring.P.s Does anyone for a moment there think that the character Affleck could get away with the fact that nobody would realize that he stole a look at the files. I would presume a law film like that would have CCameras everywhere. "}{"Title":"Dealing with alot of issues, pulling it off well!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen a movie with this much substance and content for a long time. The issues it deals with are handled with great care. The acting is well over average (I was actually very impressed by Ben Affleck), and the whole movie hits hard and just keeps on hitting you until the end. There are some similarities with Michael Douglas' best movie, Falling Down, and even though Changing lanes don't quite match that it still has some important things to say and it speaks well! It's a good movie that among other things shows us how fragile our lives and our security really are. On  the other hand it's also a movie about believing in the good of humanity. There are a bunch of other issues I could name that this movie deals with but guess what, it pulls it off. Every single one of them. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Average Movie","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has an original idea to start with. Two people, coming from different backgrounds meet in small car accident on the highway. It happens probably hundreds or thousands of times daily in NYC, but this event and the 20 minutes they are delayed off their daily routine may lead to big changes in their life. For the worst. With this good premises, the movie succeeds to trigger interest for the first third part. This is also the best filmed part. Unfortunately what happens after falls in the big studios routine, with an end sprinkled by the usual syrup. What a shame!Still a watchable movie. Samuel Johnson (especially) and Ben Affleck are good. 7/10 on my personal scale  "},{"Title":"Twist and Turns","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You ever heard the old saying, What comes around goes around?  Boy, does that hold true in this one.  Although at times the actions become a little predictable, the action stayed with the film until the end.  I wouldn't say this is a must see, but if there's nothing left at Blockbuster, rent it.  "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Triumph","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This, after Panic Room and Spiderman, is 2002's 3rd Hollywood movie triumph.  They're the movies where you get entertained and can't be scared because you know in the end, everything will work out just fine.  Changing Lanes does just this, but does it very well.   B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"The movie 'changes' from kinda bad to good","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Affleck, and Sydney Pollock.Two men get in a fender bender that makes them both late for an important event.  Affleck needs to have files for a vital court case.  Jackson needs to attend the custody case or else he loses his children.  But Affleck leaves Jackson behind, causing him to miss his case.  But Affleck also left something else...the important file for his case.  The two men end up being ruthless people vowing for revenge on each other.  The movie, in my opinion, has a well-deserved ending that changed my mind on it. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, if you take away the last 10 minutes","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What were they thinking????? God, the ending sucked bigtime. It could have been one of the best films of the year, but thanks to the typical, feel good ending, it's not. The movie is a realistic character study, where one can easily feel identified with the people there, and all the situations felt like they could have happened in real life, but then comes the ending, in which suddenly everyone decides that they should do the right thing. No, not just doing the right thing (that would be believable). The Ben Affleck character actually decides he wants to be a hero. It made me sick. Why do filmmakers think we always need a happy ending? Sometimes it's necessary. In this case it was not. The movie was a perfect 10/10, but the ending was SO bad that I'm only giving a 7. "},{"Title":"SOOOOOOO CLOSE","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is aggravating... It came dangerously near perfection. I want to meet the pinhead who tacked on the ending. I will bet that it wasn't Roger Michell. (I will give my reason at the end because it contains a spoiler)  It had to be someone who rubber-necks, plays golf slowly, honks the horn when leaving a friends house after midnight, pays with a check on the express line, smokes a cigar in public, or anyone else who forces his stupidity upon you. This movie played like a classic from the seventies- very tidy script, no agenda on it's morality, concise characterization, bouncy pace without feeling rushed along, close-ups when they are going to mean something (not just  carefully lit gratuitous vanity shots) and a contemporary but timeless soundtrack. Jackson is so real you'd swear you sat next to this guy on the subway. Affleck is right in tempo without being that tired old exageration of a successful white guy who exists in the elite sealed off sector of Manhattan. It was a 10 until the very end... now it's an 8... (SPOILER) Had this scene not been an afterthought, the scene would not have been shot on seperate days with the cast called back in at their availability (which is obvious because you never see them together in the same shot.) If this was the intended ending, there would have been a shot of them walking down the street together... or at the very least a  crane shot of them standing facing each other. For such a melodramatic choice, the scene is strangely emotionally vacant. Chop off those last few frames and you have a  pearl................................. "},{"Title":"it was no ones fault .. its was just real..fabulous","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  a unique story line , a simple concept yet beautifully directed with a keen sense of reality, characters are strong and beautifully portrayed and built over the period. the impact of the ending could have been a little bit more stronger which probably doesn't leave the audience with the state of mind to score it at 8 stars .. a very real movie  "},{"Title":"great story, played by 2 good actors, surprisingly good","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't expect this movie too much of this movie, because I thought it would be just a vehicle for the two big actors.But the story of the film was so strong, Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck could totally concentrate on their roles. It starts with an introduction of the two characters and the position their in. Then they meet and because of their guilt and doubt they are doing their best to make each others life miserable. Because Jackson accidentally got someone Affleck wants. The film zooms in on their life and shows the viewers that they are good men, who by accident got into this mess. Jackson shows a little bit of his bad motherf****r but not too much and Ben Affleck has the potential to become one of the biggest stars of Hollywood. A very good film which you should see. Both acting and suspense are super. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An affecting drama","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CHANGING LANES is a provocative, twisty, turny drama that exploits the good and bad side in all of us.Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck give great performances, with a strong ensemble cast (including Toni Collette, Sydney Pollack, William Hurt, Amanda Peet, and Kim Staunton) tightening things up.To put it simply, this is one of the year's best films. "}{"Title":"Hurt by bad marketing, very underrated!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is another movie that was hurt by its advertising. I see a lot of negative comments here that spawn from people thinking this was going to be a revenge thriller... when instead they got an excellent character study. I didnt go see this in the theaters because i expected this to just be another crappy Ben Affleck movie, but my brother saw it and enjoyed it, so I decided to get the DVD, im VERY glad i did! The characters are very solid and multidimensional, and Ben and Sam handled themselves very well! The editing was interesting, and the supporting rules solid.. 7.5/10 IMO!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful character study masquerading as revenge drama","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERSI rented this movie thinking that it was going to be some kind of adventure about a vendetta between two tough characters, when (for me, at least), it ended up being a compelling portrayal of how two seemingly very different people (wealthy white man, working-class black man) can both end up ruining their lives because of fatal flaws in their character.  The acting was terrific throughout, especially in the relatively minor roles played by Kim Staunton and William Hurt.  The only downside was a completely ad-hoc, tacked-on Hollywood ending that nearly destroyed the bitter but realistic conclusion; you can almost see some smug producer telling the director that no American audience is going to tolerate that sort of thing, making me hope for a director's cut that leaves off the ridiculous, 180-degree turnaround of the last minute.  Still, Changing Lanes was well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great film, spoilt by jerky cinematography","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good film. No need to go into details as it has so eloquently been described by many others. It can be viewed on a multiplicity of levels. My biggest complaint is this obsession cameramen have nowadays of doing their damndest to make the audience nauseous by jerking the camera around (to try and give a pathetically poor attempt at reality). Doesn't work and never will. - Remember The Insider? - same problem. Ian  "},{"Title":"Sliding Doors done seriously...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     As the above summary suggests, this is another movie about how a minor incident can radically alter the course of your day, and even your life.  It's a study about what anger can do to a person when they let it escalate too far, and about two individuals who feel so tethered to the path of their lives that the only way they can exercise a little bit of control is to go crazy (If that makes sense... -) )   I think you can gather that because it explores the themes I mentioned, this isn't just some standard vigilante movie, complete with neon-signed goodies and baddies and fist-fights at regular intervals to keep the masses happy.  No, this is an intelligent, layered and claustrophobic study of humanity.  Playing against type as he did in Unbreakable, Jackson once again sheds his 'Mr Cool' persona and plays a man who is at once angry, pathetic and sympathetic.  I wasn't surprised - I knew he could do it.  Affleck just might be a revelation to many people in his performance though, getting a little more 'introspective' than movies like Mallrats and Armageddon usually allow him to be. (I've nothing against those movies, mind... )  Credit to these guys.  It's a character drama, and the two lead actors (along with the script) make their characters work.   The direction offers us loads of intense close-ups, but despite this rather obvious tactic manages to sustain a suspenseful atmosphere right to the finish.  If you go to the movies looking for escapism, then watch something else, because this movie hits closer to home harder than most things I've seen recently.  Definitely a good watch. "},{"Title":"Good movie with horrible end","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why do all movies seem to have to end in total happiness??? I would have rated this movie a 7 without the final five minutes. And there are also too many holes in the plot, but that would have been okay if the producers wouldnt have tried to make the people think they live in a happy-flower-world... "},{"Title":"Good film, great cast.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gavin Banek is late for an important court case. So is Doyle Gipson. The two men collide on New York's FDR and this is just the beginning of a very bad day for both of them. Annoyed by Banek's unwillingness on sorting things out properly at the car crash scene, Doyle finds he has missed out on his court case and lost joint custody of his sons. Gavin finds that he left an important document at the car crash scene and has to retrieve it by the end of the day. Trouble is, Doyle has it and isn't very willing to give it back.Changing Lanes is an interesting thriller about how a confrontation between two people can bring out the worst in them. Both Ben Affleck and Samuel L Jackson are excellent as Gavin Banek and Doyle Gipson. The supporting players including William Hurt, Sydney Pollack and Toni Collette are also very good.Perhaps the only disappointing aspect of the film is the ending. But even that's not enough to spoil your enjoyment. This a fine thriller which is at least worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Interesting!!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If all you want is seeing action scenes, this movie is not for you. Changing Lanes is different from most of the movies you have seen. It's an action with strong drama connotation.. or would that be a drama with action slices? Anyway, Changing Lanes brings us a great pair of great actors (Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson) and a plot that attracts our attention during the 100 minutes it longs. After a car crash, Lawyer Gavin Banek (Affleck), who is late for a judgment, ignores Doyle Gipson's (Jackson) despair and leaves him alone in the middle of the street. Some moments, however, in front of the judge, he sees he's left some important documents behind. That's when he realizes the papers must have be left with Banek. But there's a problem. Banek doesn't want to give the documents back...That's when the movie really begins.The rhythm of the movie could be a little faster, but it is still good enough. It worths watching!My rate 7/10    "},{"Title":"Unexpected, but in a good way","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *****WARNING contains tiny potential spoilers*****Reading other people's comments, it's obvious that the marketing folks at Paramount did Changing Lanes no favors by advertising it as an action/revenge fantasy movie, because it's not that at all. No big showdowns, no gunfire, no fight scenes -- OK, one, but it's incidental to the main story. But while the movie lacks action, it speaks better of the human condition than I initially thought it could or would.You know the basic premise two guys have a fender bender whose consequences dent their lives worse than their cars. A game of F-U one-upmanship ensues. Life-altering changes hang in the balance. Off we go.It seems a lot of people don't like the movie's pace or ending. The pace thing, as I mentioned, I attribute to mismarketing. The ending...well, what others found too contrived or neat, I found compelling. There's a difference between saying things will work out fine and suggesting that, with a little effort, they might. To me, Changing Lanes is ultimately a story about learning from -- and taking responsibility for-- your mistakes. While a literal lane change causes the initial accidental, it's the figurative lane change in how they live that redeems these men. The movie revolves around an accident, but the title is no accident at all. "},{"Title":"Killer Morality Play Lost on Most Viewers","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes was marketed as a high-stress action flick, and it delivers. What seems to be lost on most viewers, however, is its brilliance as a morality play.This is not only the story of the one day that changes the lives of two men thrown together by a car accident; it's the story of the big decisions they make that ultimately define who they are *as* men. Gavin Banek, a young hot-shot lawyer with all the right establishment connections, is just beginning his life. Doyle Gipson, a middle-aged deadbeat dad and recovering alcoholic, is struggling to finally regain it.A big-hype film starring Ben Affleck has to have a happy ending. Refreshingly, this happy ending is killer. In a lesser film, Banek would ditch and perhaps expose the corrupt firm and his complicit wife. But, in Changing Lanes, Banek instead bears down, takes personal responsibility, and brilliantly forces others' hands, with courage, justice, and compassion. (He not only finds, but defines his own edge. What a great line, redelivered by Banek to his wife.)The Changing Lanes story is tight, sophisticated, and original. The score and art direction are spot-on. Stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson are well cast and very good, as are supporters Sydney Pollack and Amanda Peet. "},{"Title":"There is a special place in hell for people who enjoyed this movie.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am not going to spend a great deal of time explaining why this is such a horrid film.  -although I could write a small novel on the subject.  I will instead, point out a few things that left a rotting taste in my mouth and made me scream for my two hours back.- Bad acting.  I mean bad.  ...really bad.- Way too long.  This story could have been told in less time than it takes to boil water.- Bad story.  I'm a fan of make-believe.  I enjoy far out stories that couldn't possibly occur in our realm, this however is just plain silly.- Inconsistant.  Did anyone else happen to notice that the background happened to switch from a nice summer day, to the dead of winter (complete with snow) in a matter of two seconds?I make it a rule to only sign on to IMDB and add comments to movies I feel are worthy of praise, this however was such a horrible movie I feel the need to warn the public before they waste their time.I have never walked out of a movie, or stopped watching it half way through. I try to give every film a chance.  I seriously wish I had stopped watching this five min's in.  I want my two hours back.There is a special place in hell for people who enjoyed this ilm.  -right along side those who believe Buffy, the Vampire slayer (or any WB show for that matter) deserves an emmy. "}{"Title":"Amazing.  Simply amazing.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As usual, I was skeptical to watch this movie.  Probably because I thought it was solely about road rage and it would be pretty boring.  I was totally wrong, and I am glad I watched it.A few spoilers.Changing Lanes delves into the psychology of two extremely frustrated and angry men who are trapped within a web of lies and life-destroying forces.  It's sheer brilliance the way in which everything gradually falls apart, which made me sit on the edge of my seat, telling the characters, No!  Don't do it!  You know that if a movie makes you do that, it's a good one.Changing Lanes has a superior cast, Ben Affleck and Samuel Jackson being our main characters.  And what a performance they deliver.  If anyone else had been chosen, I doubt the movie would have been half as good.  Affleck is easy to see as a lawyer, and Jackson is the perfect middle-aged man who is attempting to gather the pieces of his slowly deteriorating life.What starts out as a simple car accident turns into a day of mishaps and devious plots that nearly ruins each person's life.  Although it is a web, like I said, the pieces of the puzzle interlock completely and give a feeling of satisfaction.  Especially in the end, when Affleck makes an important discovery about his law firm and takes suitable action during dinner.The fact that the entire movie takes place in one day heightens the suspense.  I was enthralled, hoping that everything would work out all right, but predicting that it wouldn't.  It was nice that not everything worked out perfectly, but that good prevailed.  I think that the makers of this movie really tried to make it as lifelike as possible, and, if so, they succeeded with perfection.  The characters are totally believable (we can feel the pain of Jackson's character when he realizes that he may never see his two boys again) and the plot is not surreal.  It is quite possible in today's world.The music is not an essential part of the movie, but adds to the tension when necessary.  David Arnold knows when to keep it low and out-of-sight and also when to blare it in our ears to let us know we should be afraid for the characters (not like he needs to tell us).Changing Lanes is a great drama.  One of the better movies of the year, in fact, and it should have done better.  It is a little underrated, and I definitely suggest seeing it. "},{"Title":"A different kind of thriller","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Changing Lanes is certainly not your average thriller. Two imperfect men Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck), who is an overly-confident lawyer and Doyle Gibson (Samuel L. Jackson), who is a recovering alcoholic, get into a minor fender bender on F.D.R. Drive. The two politely ask each other, Are you O.K.? No one is hurt. Banek wants nothing to do with the situation because he's late for an appointment in court; Gibson, the same reason, but wants Banek's insurance information because he wants to do the right thing. Banek thinks that a blank check will solve the problem and leaves Gibson stranded in the middle of the road, unknowingly leaving a crucial document in Gibson's possession and so the battle begins... Changing Lanes is so far, one of the best reviewed films of 2002. Roger Ebert gave it four stars and has already claimed the film as being one of the year's best. Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson both give superb, if not Oscar worthy performances. Their performances are the heart and soul of this stunning and fast-paced film.The film wastes no time in establishing the lives of both of the lead characters. We see that Banek is currently in the middle of a huge court case that if he wins, he will be one of the richest men in New York. Gibson, the recovering alcoholic, is desperately trying to keep his marriage from falling completely apart. He thinks he can save his marriage by purchasing a low-rent apartment that he can move his family into. From the previews you would also probably expect the film to be a no-holds-barred thriller with lots of action. No-holds-barred, yes. Lots of action. No. But what we get is something a little short of a psychological thriller, as it deals with two completely different guys trying to stay one step ahead of the other. After the fender bender, both men engage in a series of escalating battles to see who can outdo who. Banek consults a man who fixes things. What I mean by fixing is that the said man will wipe Gibson's bank accounts clean. Gibson reacts to the situation by refusing to hand over the crucial document that Banek wants so desperately.In many ways, Changing Lanes reminds me greatly of Falling Down, another film which explored the worst of human emotions. That film starred Michael Douglas as a man whose pent up feelings of hate and rage escalated into a city wide orgy of violence. But where Falling Down had a man whose worst qualities are brought out and has him violently lashing out at the wrongs in society, Changing Lanes has two men, already at their worst, unleashing their frustrations on each other.Changing Lanes, as already mentioned, is a stunning film that deserves to be nominated for several Oscars. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"An exceptional film","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, this movie was inappropriately marketed.  The trailers implied that this film was about violent, or otherwise insidious, acts of revenge. Even the movie's tag-line One wrong turn deserves another only exemplifies the poor marketing.  As a result, many of the reviews here on IMDB are from a skewed viewpoint -- people went to see one kind of movie when, in reality, Changing Lanes is about something completely different.The premise is basic enough Two people get into a fender-bender.  Nobody is injured.  It's not really anybody's fault.  Both parties have to be to court at a certain time. A verbal dispute takes place resulting in Jackson's character being left stranded in the rain with a flat tire.  Affleck gets to court on time, but discovers that he left a crucial document with Jackson's character by mistake.  In a lesser film, the evil Affleck character would have tried to take the document by force, but Changing Lanes rises above -- Jackson's character faxes a page of the critical file with Better luck next time! scrawled on it.  Thus, a day long struggle between the two characters begins.Changing Lanes focuses on the two main characters Gavin Banneck Ben Affleck and Doyle Gibson Samuel L. Jackson.  These two actors portray their characters phenomenally.  This is another flawless performance to add to Jackson's record. Affleck is at the height of his ability, coming close to (and perhaps surpassing) his performance in Chasing Amy.  Each character has his own explicit motives for acting the way he does.  These motives are laid out for viewers in ever increasing detail as the film progresses.Jackson's character seems to have a failed life.  He is addicted to chaos (as his AA Mentor tells him) not because he enjoys it, but because it is an escape from his own, miserable reality.  He walks into a bar looking for a fight, not a drink.  After he has calmed down from his chaos high, Jackson's character wants to do the right thing by giving the file back to Affleck.  As soon as he finds some reason for conflict (usually provocation by Affleck's character), he readily engages.  Jackson's character does not have an epiphany like the Affleck character does, but he is a changed man in his own way.  Perhaps he has finally come to terms with his chaos addiction?Affleck's character is much more developed and much more interesting.  He suffers the most change and experiences the most toil.  Unlike Jackson's life, Affleck's life seems successful  he's just been made a partner of a wall street law firm, he's rich, and likes what he does.  In the beginning, Affleck's character seems to have turned a blind eye to the evils that have transpired in his firm.  He is naive and utters such phrases as ...but we didn't do anything wrong! in a vain attempt to put himself in the right. As the film progresses, he begins to question the motives of those around him, specifically, the motives of his two other partners.  If they were such good partners and personal friends, Affleck's character wonders, why did they send me into that courtroom alone?  Eventually, Affleck begins to question his own motives and finally comes to an ultimate epiphany. They have to write their own letters is a classic idea that has been repeated in various films, but still feels fresh in this one.With such brilliant acting, a strong plot, and competent direction, it's quite odd that the film seems to end on a weak note.  Upon multiple viewings, the ending seems to have improved, but only because the motives of the characters are now fully clear to me.  The ending is lackluster and does not reflect the revelation and progression of the characters.Changing Lanes is about Affleck's character's acceptance and then later rejection of his immoral and meaningless life.  He even confesses to a priest that he is looking for meaning in the world.  Why does the world need meaning, the priest asks.  Because the world is a sewer!, says Affleck.  This film takes two people, analyzes them and reaches the conclusion that while their lives are completely different (Jackson is a low-salary insurance salesman while Affleck is a wealthy wall street lawyer), the moral values of both men are essentially the same.9/10 *The weak ending prevents the film from achieving a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Good character study, meaningful message","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about two men of whom neither are perfect.  One man seems to have a lot wrong with his character but a gleam of hope for redemption. The other man has worked hard to become a good father and husband, and therefore has a lot right with enough still wrong to cause him heartache.  I love the way the movie departs from the all-too-often character development that leaves the viewer with a definite bad guy and an unmistakable good guy. What you have here are two men whose chance and cataclysmic encounter forces them to see themselves in a new light.  See the movie to find out what such an illumination brings about in their lives.  It's a great ride! "},{"Title":"Changing Lanes 8/10","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is one of those movies where you can't expect all the turns and you can't guess what'll happen. You may think one thing about a character, but then think different of him the next minute.Samuel L. Jackson is Doyle Gipson, a working class man who is running late to court for custody of his kids. He, while on the freeway, bumps into Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck), an important lawyer late for a case, too. Gipson's car is inoperable, but Banek, worried that he'd be late for his court case, leaves Gipson standing in the middle of the freeway. Banek accidentally left an important file with Gipson, one that could cost him winning the case or not. Tempers heat up when Gipson is very late to his court, but Banek needs his file.It's a compelling dramatic thriller; it's not a thriller where you're wondering when the ax-weilding maniac is going to jump out, it's the thriller where you don't know what's going to happen next. You can guess one thing, and be completely wrong. It's been awhile where there was a thriller where little violence was shown and people don't go on killing people. It tangles with your emotions. You feel bad for Gipson, you might feel mad about Banek just leaving him there. Not many movies can do that.Of course, the best part of the movie is the acting. Sam Jackson was simply mesmerizing. He can control his anger (in the movie) for some time, but when he snaps, wow! What a great actor at work. Affleck was surprisingly good (a whole lot better than The Sum of All Fears); his emotions, though not as emphasized as Sam's, are pretty well made. I liked how it seemed someone was the good guy and someone else was the bad guy, and then it got reversed. That is good filmmaking.What didn't I like about it, you ask? Well, the ever-popular Amanda Peet needed a bigger role, and it had a not-so-intense ending, but other than that, it's solid. I know when I'm old enough to drive (be afraid, be very afraid), I'll be cautious whenever I'm driving down a New York freeway in the rain (on Good Friday, of course). A thing that wasn't so great was it's trying to get religion into play. Why did we need it to take place on Good Friday, what was the point about the church? But, director Roger Michell might be very religious himself and want to put in various themes. That's fine with me.If you want a human dramatic thriller, this is it. If you want a good, original story, this is it. If you want great (nay...superb) acting, fast-paced plot, tense scenes, this is it. Human emotions are abound here. It can make you feel good and bad at the same time. As I've said before, not many movies can make you feel like that. Basically, don't rent this if you're not a fan of good movies with excellent acting. One thing I just remembered-the sub-plot about the affair seemed unecessary, but it still didn't bother me that much. There's one thing I'm trying to say in this review RENT IT, or even better, BUY IT!One afterthought who names their kids Gavin or Doyle?Rated R for some language. "},{"Title":"Entertaining flick","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good acting.  Good plot.  I liked the film because it got my attention and kept me going.  I also liked how it manipulated me to love/hate the main characters  thorough believed and real.  The ending shot, however, with trucks rushing past Jackson and Staunton was too long.  It seemed like that had film to use up and not waste.  The point is easily made in far fewer frames than are used at the end of this film. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the worst films ever made.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***possible spoiler***This movie had the dumbest plot, the stupidest character scenarios, and possibly the most senseless ending in movie history. The filmmakers tried so hard to make you care about and feel something for the characters, but instead only succeed in making a prolonged period of waiting for something to happen. The only thing that could possibly save this film is the inclusion of Sam Jackson, unfortunately, though, that doesn't help at all. Sadly, this movie had so much potential that was needlessly squandered. I was very hyped-up for Changing Lanes, and was given one of the worst, most gruelingly boring experiences of my entire life. To anyone thinking of seeing this movie, I say, don't waste your time, banish the thought, and you're better off spending your money on a toothbrush for your goldfish. I give this movie -5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not the racing movie I expected!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the past ten years there has been few movies which have been 'original' and Changing Lanes is one of them. I know when you read the title and see some of the scenes in the trailer you might think it's a action flick or something but as you already know it isn't. What it is, is a great movie with INCREDIBLE character development which explorers the emotional sides of the characters. It's a nice movie so check it out if you haven't.3(***)out of 4(****)stars   "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  intelligent thriller with deep ideas","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm an action movie buff, so I like it when stuff blows up. And there's plenty of action in Changing Lanes. But it's also an intelligent drama -- but accessible, not too arty -- that makes a commentary on how an average person can become a beast when rage or revenge takes hold.The acting is fantastic and there are several neat plot twists. The whole film is tight and plays out through only a single day. The pace is fine, well maybe it is a touch slow if all you care about is the action. Highly recommended.Who should see this film-- Action buffs who won't mind a touch of the intellectual.-- Drama buffs who won't mind if some stuff blows upI'll give Changing Lanes an 8 out of 10. Oh, and see Fearless, too. "},{"Title":"Implausible but compulsively watchable","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is a powerful film and probably the best role Affleck has yet had, with a moving performance by Samuel L. Jackson as a deeply flawed, humdrum yet somehow passionate ex-alcoholic insurance salesman who's trying to buy a house to persuade his wife to remain in New York with their two little boys.  The plot is a bit too high powered, depicting as it does a pumped-up battle between the two men when a car crash fatally delays Jackson's character from a custody hearing and leads Affleck's to leave his key `power of instrument' document in Jackson's character's hands before another hearing, in his case to determine the legitimacy of Affleck's powerful law firm's control over a huge charitable trust which its founder's daughter disputes.  Through the course of one day the two men battle each other with imagination and reckless abandon. It's more than a little implausible what they do.  But questions like why there would be only one copy of that `power of instrument,' as well as the big one as to why the two men would both try such desperate measures against each other, are kept at bay by quirky photography and constant, well timed cuts that keep the scenes continually so interesting that I was on the edge of my seat from first scene to last.  Sidney Pollack, as in Eyes Wide Shut, plays the role of a rich and powerful man who bends morality, and he's awfully good at that.  Affleck is, in a way, just a big lug, an overgrown baby, a boyish bully, but there's a confusion and vulnerability about him that for the first time in one of his big roles invites genuine sympathy.  Jackson's performance is restrained, neutral, without any of his usual mannerisms.  He loses himself in the role, and it's a seamless, elegant performance.  He has a sad, bloated look, and when he sits for an hour staring at a glass of bourbon in a bar without touching it the improbable event seems believable because there is such a sense of powerful repression in his characterization.  Affleck contrarily is loose, flabby, exposed, like a spoiled prep school boy who's discovering that the world is not his oyster after all.  Some of the philosophical moments &#150; especially Affleck in a Catholic church railing at a father confessor about the unfairness of life &#150; are excessive, but the movie succeeds in keeping the volume turned up so consistently that such moments blend in.  I knew I was being manipulated shamelessly, but I stayed in thrall.  The moral issues brought up are pretty interesting and treated not unintelligently, however over-inflated the plot.  Roger Mitchell is a director worth watching. "}{"Title":"You should be cited if u dont watch this film!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Changing Lanes' is the new power-driven movie starring Ben Affleck & Samuel L. Jackson. Its hydroplan of action starts focusing on a yuppie egocentric lawyer who has a fender-bender car accident with a recovering alcoholic salesman. However, because of certain circumstances these two end up colliding more than once from there on. I will not crash the party and spoil it for you. But I am insure to tell you that like a good neighbor, you are in good hands with this movie. Its twist and turns that develop throughout the movie sure do indicate that there is nothing hazardous for us not to continue watching. Director Roger Michell sets up the pace with exact persistence. Also,  Ben Affleck & Samuel Jackson `do let you get in' their film characters from the very start! Affleck was as good in `Changing Lanes' as he was in `Chasing Amy'. Jackson is a great actor who is driven to greatness with yet another superb piece of acting. So please hurry!, cut the person in front of you at the movie theatre line, and gear up for `Changing Lanes.' **** Good  "},{"Title":"Interesting Beginning","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts great with a real story and a throwback to the old films.  The acting is fine and the directing is goo.  I loved it till about half way through.  It should have continued with a story about decisions and conflict but then it changes and suddenly becomes about discrimination and race.  The story suddenly changes to that and falls apart.  We finally walked out which I have only done 4 times in 4 thousand movies "},{"Title":"Well, this was interesting.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CHANGING LANES is one of those new movies that try to give us a new plot with the suspenseful climax that totally blows you away. Well, the ending really doesn't do that, but the rest of the movie does. This was a very well written and directed film. Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson were both very professional. This is the story of what happens one day when two men collide on the highway, both rushing to get to their court hearings on time. However, their anger escalates into a feud which begins a chain of events that will change both their lives forever. Now, there isn't much action in this movie. And not much suspense either. Just a lot of fast moving drama. If you are an action fan, then stay away. If you are fan of thrillers, stay away. But if you like movies that the previews obviously lead you to think that this movie is, then go and see it. Its one of the best dramas out there......5/5. "},{"Title":"Race Exploitation","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, this film degenerates in to a racial theme. It stared out wonderfully.  It seemed to have a real story line that was a throw back to Frank Capra.  It was well acted and drew me into the story.  I doubt most viewers were even thinking about the race of the actors.  I was going rate this film very highly.Without warning, the film becomes about racial oppression. Suddenly we hear bigots making fun of Tiger Woods where of course in real life he is praised for his superior golf ability.   Then there is a bunch of racially charged words.  We are living in a world where African Americans are constantly manipulated into being angry.  It is sad.  In all films actors always refer to themselves as I'm black.  I would hate to be constantly labeled  The whole thing is crazy.  I loved the first half of the film and then I got so annoyed I walked out in the middle.  This film could have been about people not races. "},{"Title":"Probably a critical smash because...it sucks","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone going in to see this movie that believes the commercials when it calls it a thriller...or an action smash is in for a treat...and not chocolate treat, more like an apple with a razor blade in it. Where to begin...first of all I will say that some people, who are far more experienced in the movie critics area say that Changing Lanes is beautifully filmed and full of irony, and wonderfully directed, and brilliantly shot and guess what?? Who cares. I go to see a movie to be entertained, not to see if some guy with a camera can film Irony. I want to be moved, and excited, and scared, and sad, and happy...I don't care how it's shot. Sometimes you see a movie that you just know right away is going to be a critical HIT!! You go see it and it leaves the average person feeling empty, and undecided and impartial about the whole experience and you probably forget you even saw it by dinner time. Guaranteed that's the movie that everyone will be supposedly raving about and everyone will walk home with an Oscar. Apparently that's how I see Changing Lanes. The story is simple enough and very intriguing (in theory.) A man (who is a former Alcoholic and now trying to piece his life back together) is on his way to the Courthouse to try and get joint custody of his sons. On the freeway he is sideswiped into a barrier by a hurried lawyer on his way to Court. The Lawyer brushes the man off and leaves the scene of the accident, accidentally leaving behind a vital piece of information in a file folder that could bring his whole firm crumbling down and cost them millions of dollars. Because the lawyer screwed up the man's chances at getting his children back, making him late for court, the man begins to play a push and shove game with this file folder making the lawyer jump through hoops. Instead the Lawyer starts to shove back in his own way and each man tries to top the other with horribly psychotic mean spirited things. Samuel L Jackson is wonderful. He truly is great as the man at the edge of things, trying to get his kids back, and trying to do what is right but suddenly finding himself on the wrong end of a very bad day. Ben Affleck is...ridiculous. If I see this kid (what is he like 12) play one more big shot attorney or some other high affluence job I'm gonna think the world has got nuts. He is not believable as a partner is one of the cities largest law firms??? He's TOO YOUNG!! and shows it, and not that great an actor. Ben Affleck hasn't made me want to see a movie since Armageddon or Good Will Hunting (ah Ben those were the days when we only had to see you on screen for five minutes total and two lines.) Ben Affleck could be a good actor but he picks parts that just aren't believable for him. Although his immorality and getting to the end of his rope were good everything else in his character just didn't fit. It ruined the whole story line. My second problem with the film is that no one seemed to notice through out this movie that Samuel L Jackson's character who is kind of the hero who we feel sorry for...is a COMPLETE LOONY!!! The man tries to kill someone, and he goes berserk every time someone breaths and starts trashing offices??? Yeah let's root for this guy to get his children back. Ben Affleck's character should have been the one flipped out, now that would have made sense and would have fit the story line much better. But instead they have this father who we are supposed to care for who is basically out of his mind. And the ending was a ridiculous happily ever after ending that was inappropriate. Overall I give this movie a 5/10 and I suggest you spend your 12 bucks going to see The Scorpion King or save it for something cool like Star Wars Episode II, or Spiderman. Changing Lanes was poorly put together. "},{"Title":"Better Luck Next Time!!!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When i went to see this movie, it was nothing like i expected it to be.  I was really amazed by the outcome of it.  I thought that maybe it would be about people racing and stuff but I never would have guessed it to be like that. I'm not saying it's a bad thing, i thought it was a great movie.  They should make more like it for people to watch.  but the only thing that i resented was the fact that it was rated r.  i didn't think that it had to be rated r because first of all, they didnt really need to swear at all in that movie anyway.  so i think it would have survived enough with it being a rated pg-13 movie. "},{"Title":"Meal on wheels...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like your movie plots like Swiss cheese, you'll love Changing Lanes. Add some fun filler, and maybe you won't see the holes till later on, once you've already digested this meal on wheels.The story starts its engine with a brief introduction to our protagonists, then revs up with a minor but nasty traffic accident in morning rush-hour traffic on New York's F.D.R. highway. Blueblood lawyer Gavin Banek (Affleck) and middle-class insurance agent Doyle Gipson (Jackson) are headed for the same courthouse. Both are late to their appointments.All the problems to come could have been resolved had Gavin simply given Doyle a ride but, Gavin's mind is on Gavin and what Gavin needs to do. Better luck next time, he shouts unfeelingly as he drives off, leaving Doyle stranded. If you can swallow this (an attorney leaving the scene of an accident after having done nothing but throw a blank check -- yes, a blank check! -- at the insurance agent), go ahead and enjoy the rest of the Swiss cheese snack.Gavin makes it to the court on time, while Doyle does not. Each man suffers repercussions from the accident -- Gavin has lost an extremely important file (he left it behind after using it to write the check on), and Doyle has lost his visitation rights to his two children, because he wasn't there to speak in court. He tries to explain about the accident to the family court judge, but his pleas fall on callous ears. Now both men are desperate... Doyle wants his day in court back, and Gavin wants his file back. Rather than getting together (Gavin is a high-powered attorney, after all... doesn't he know anybody in the legal system who owes him a favor?) the two decide to punish each other for what happened.Doyle withholds the precious file once he finds out Gavin needs it back (the two meet by chance on the street), and Gavin decides to make Doyle's life a living hell.The thing I liked about Changing Lanes was that there was no clear cut good guy and bad guy. Neither Gavin nor Doyle is entirely at ease with the chain reaction of revenge and one-uppances, but they continue to do it. Why? We're never told outright. But it seems Gavin is addicted to power, and Doyle is addicted to pandemonium, which is fueled by his alcoholism.There is one scene in which his AA sponsor, disgusted with him after having to bail him out of jail, tells him, You're addicted to chaos. The role of the sponsor is played by William Hurt and he is a fine actor, but imagine how much cooler the chaos speech would have been coming from Jeff Goldblum. (Note to casting directors Think!)The director and editor (Roger Michell and Christopher Tellefsen, respectively) have done a great job of switching back and forth between the two men as they act and react. The movie does veer over the top at times, but it's tempered with the occasional laugh. Since Michell is best known for his smash comedy, Notting Hill, it's not surprising that these few and far between moments actually have more honest impact than the drama of ethics.Affleck is believable as the cocky yet conflicted attorney, and he is supported by a strong cast (Sydney Pollack as a hard-nosed attorney, and Dylan Baker as a gleeful computer hacker work well; Amanda Peet as his wife, and Toni Collette as his girlfriend are both underused). Kim Staunton as Mrs. Gipson is quite credible in her tired resignation, but the best thing about Changing Lanes is definitely Samuel L. Jackson. The worst? No famous Samuel L. Jackson speech.Yes, the story is completely implausible and outrageous, but remember truth is stranger than fiction. Just watch The History Channel or the Biography Channel and you'll quickly realize that. Sometimes God likes to put two guys in a paper bag and let 'em rip, Gavin says in the movie (to a priest, no less). And sometimes, it's fun to watch the bag rustle. "},{"Title":"Fine acting gone to waste. 6/10","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You got to give credit where credit is due.  I will give Changing Lanes this, for a typical Hollywood film, it's trying to be something more.  Changing Lanes doesn't succeed in being the brilliant social commentary it wants to be, but it doesn't fail in the same way the miserable John Q. did.  Instead, Changing Lanes has the misfortune of being completely mediocre in its delivery.  There are times when the movie seems like it might just be more.  Samuel L. Jackson is very sharp in this role, and Ben Affleck has some moments as well.  There are times when the dialogue is undoubtedly clever.  But these fine things can't stop this nowhere plot picture -- from going nowhere. "},{"Title":"Good film crappy ending","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Channging Lanes is one of few films that can start out great and then have a crappy enidng. After one leaves the film you still liked though.Roger Michell who previsouly directed Nottitng Hill does good with this little thriller and Ben Affleck & Samuel L. Jackson are good in the leads. The screenplay by first timer Chap Taylor is also very good. My favorite thing about the movie was the cinematogrphy and the camera angles. I give it **** out *****.  "},{"Title":"Good when it needs to be","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first, I was weary about seeing Changing Lanes due to the factBen Affleck's drunk mug would be in the film. However, thestoryline perfectly offsetted Affleck's poor acting style with sarcasmand cynicism. Sam Jackson should have had more screen time inthe film, primarily because of his realistic portrayal of a man beingtoyed with.However, I will say this What the heck was up with William Hurt'srole? Why was Amanda Peet in the movie? If the script had juststuck to the mano-o-mano showdown between Affleck and  Jackson, I would have given this film an 8. Sometimes, making afilm to make it deep and interesting can backfire, and this is acase where such a mantra took hold. Next time, just stick to thebasics. "}{"Title":"Although not always perfect, it's enjoyable","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before watching this movie I didn't read any reviews, so I didn't really know what to expect. But what I did know was that Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson were playing in it. Samuel L. Jackson in a movie? That's always fine with me because that man really knows how to act. But I'm afraid the same can't always be said about Ben Affleck. With appearances in movies like Daredevil and Gigli the man has lost a lot of credit, but I'm always willing to give someone a second chance and I gave this movie a try, despite the fact that I had some serious doubts about it.It all starts with Gavin Banek, an attorney, who is rushing to make a court appointment to file legal papers involving a multi-million dollar trust. He's already late, but than accidentally collides with Doyle Gipson, an alcoholic insurance salesman, on F.D.R. Drive. Gipson too has to be in court, where he has an appointment involving the custody of his children. Because his car has been wrecked in the accident he asks the attorney for help. But the man leaves the scene of the accident and strands the salesman, causing him to miss his custody hearing and to lose the right to see his kids. But just after the accident the attorney accidentally dropped the papers he needed to present in court. Gipson picked them up and kept them with him. Now that he is furious because of all what has happened to him, he will seek his revenge and will try to make Banek's life as miserable as possible...Despite the fact that I feared the worst about Ben Affleck's performance, I must say that he did a good job. It's perhaps not the best one ever, but it sure worked in this movie. However, in my opinion it is still Samuel L. Jackson who is the star of this movie. Once again the man gave away a very fine performance. But even though I don't have any complaints about the acting, I can't say the same about the story line. Next to being rather predictable from time to time, it is also a bit far-fetched in my opinion. For instance having a man declared bankrupt because he has some files of you, who comes up with such an idea? You can sue him, perhaps you can even send a few thugs after him to convince him that what he is doing isn't such a good idea (you know, mafia style),... I don't know, you can do so many things, but why bankruptcy? What would have been his next step? Sending a professional hit man after him? I'm sorry, but that one I didn't buy.Still, that doesn't mean that the rest of the story isn't enjoyable. Overall this isn't a bad movie and I must say that, most of the time, I had some good time watching it. That's also the reason why I would give it a score between 6.5/10 and 7/10. Although maybe not perfect, it sure is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Desperate times call for desperate measures.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A devious attorney(Ben Affleck)and a recovering alcoholic(Samuel L. Jackson)are involved in a collision on the freeway and that is just the beginning of a very bad day for both men. Both are late for court dates and both pay the piper for being late. The lawyer has the other man's credit screwed and a very important document of the lawyer is held hostage. Both men are facing a crossroads in their lives and are having trouble dealing with the fall out of their recent bad behavior. Tense filled drama that has you cracking your knuckles. Also in the cast areSydney Pollack, Toni Collette and Ileen Getz. This road rage goes a little bit too far. "},{"Title":"Boring plot, unrealistic character actions","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A series of bad choices draws two men into a cataclysmic conflict.  Unfortunately, the choices that these men make are so outlandish that it's hard to believe that anybody would actually act this way.  The movie is quite preachy as well, suggesting that the all the evils of the world can be reduced to simple monetary greed.  Alas, perhaps the biggest flaw is that the plot just isn't that interesting  Two men's paths cross and they decide to ruin each other's lives?  Please.  "},{"Title":"unrealistic","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There were about 15 minutes in the beginning of the film which were decent. The rest of the movie was pointless and very improbable.  It's too bad Samuel L. Jackson wasted his talent in yet another worthless film. Spider-Man was more realistic than this one. "},{"Title":"Woof!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Given the positive reviews among a very slim field, and recognizing that Ben Affleck can't help but be Ben Affleck, I saw Changing Lanes. Woof! indeed. Even overlooking plot improbability after plot improbability, and Sydney Pollack phoning in another lame performance, the movie is hopelessly hackneyed. At one point, Affleck passes by a church, and I thought, no he's not really going to go in, but he does and that's hardly the worst of it. Samuel Jackson's wonderful performance cannot begin to save this dog. I wish I'd seen National Lampoon's Van Wilder at least it knew what it was. "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst movie I've seen. Even Ed Wood's productions had better quality. I can't comment on the whole movie because I left after after an hour out of sheer boredom.Samuel L. Jackson as Doyle Gipson is unbelievable. He plays the role of an Uncle Tom who could take on Mike Tyson. Sidney Pollack as Ben Affleck's boss is even more unbelievable.I can easily conceive that he is ruthless and completely unprincipled. I've met many people just like him at work. But is he really that stupid? He is after control of a $10,000,000 foundation. Would that control all depend on ONE document? You would think that he would have the old man sign several copies. And if it did depend on one document you would think he would have a special courier to keep close watch on it when Ben Affleck took it to court. Finally, would he leave incriminating documents, documents that could send him to jail, in a filling cabinet in the office where anyone can grab them?Then there is Dylan Baker as the hacker. He can effortlessly break into the data base of a credit company and modify Samuel L. Jackson's credit record. If it was that easy the credit card companies would be losing billions of dollars. They would out of business in a week's time. In reality it would take the resources of the cryptographers at the National Security Agency to do that.Then there is the scene where Samuel L. Jackson demolishes a computer worth several thousand dollars at some financial institution. He walks out and nobody goes after him. Just imagine what would happen if one of us tried that.But I've said enough. Changing Lanes is a window into the minds of the liberals. It shows their self-loathing and the contempt they have for ordinary Americans.  "},{"Title":"Seriously, Screw Ben Affleck for making this movie.","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is everything that is wrong with Wall Street and everything that is wrong with Hollywood.It could be said that this movie is a morality tale, a look into the mind of main character Gavin Banek (Affleck) as he wrestles with the wrongs he has done.The problem? Gavin Banek continues to perpetrate horrible act after horrible act as he punishes Doyle Gibson (Jackson) for an incident that is Banek's fault. HE doesn't just get malicious, he commits multiple federal crimes until the point where Gibson is finally pushed into pushing back...and then Banek continues to commit FURTHER crimes.In the end the moral is that all of the damage can be undone and so Gavin Banek is a good person.Banek flees the scene of a car accident that he causes causing Doyle to miss a custody hearing and lose his children.Banek has a hacker destroy Doyle's credit, costing him the chance to purchase a house and save his family.Banek goes to the school of Doyle's children and tells them that Doyle is going to kidnap his own children, and then leaves a message for Doyle that his children have been injured in school...leading to Doyle's arrest.Banek had been cheating on his wife with someone at his law firm.Banek KNOWINGLY defrauded an elderly millionaire so that his father in law could gain control of a charitable foundation worth over 100 million dollars.Then, Bank makes good by seeing the light and works to undo the damage he's done, rolling back all the harm he's done. This is supposed to make him sympathetic...and a good man.Screw that. I spent most of the movie hoping that Banek, his unlikable wife and his horrid father in law would die horribly. They are the epitome of everything that is wrong with our country and yet we are to believe that everything can be okay. That all of the harm that Banek did can be undone and we can learn that Banek is a good person simply by his undoing everything he's done? Screw Affleck for making this propagandist piece of crap! "},{"Title":"The Lord Moves in Mysterious Highways","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" On Good Friday in New York City, millionaire lawyer Ben Affleck (as Gavin Banek) attempts a difficult lane change on his way to the courthouse and collides with poor alcoholic Samuel L. Jackson (as Doyle Gipson), who isn't paying attention to heavy traffic on the FDR highway. The resulting crash causes both men to wreck important court appearances. Mr. Affleck has to bring a file containing an important power of appointment to a case, but accidentally leaves the file with Mr. Jackson. And, Jackson is late for a hearing involving shared custody with his two children, which he loses.The bulk of the film shows Affleck trying to retrieve his file from an understandably angry Jackson, who wants to be a good husband and father. Changing Lanes is a moralistic drama, with purposeful symbolism - there are at least a dozen Christian references sprinkled throughout. For example, an image of Jesus Christ appears in long-shot, which is used to bless the Queens house where Jackson hopes to be reunited with his family. Satan appears in more concrete form, as the corrupt lawyer played by Sydney Pollack. William Hurt is an Angelic figure. And, God is involved, behind the scenes.Three subservient female roles shine - Affleck's wickedly beautiful wife Amanda Peet (as Cynthia), his ex-lover assistant Toni Collette (as Michelle), and Jackson's determined ex-wife Kim Staunton (as Valerie). We are lured into liking Jackson's character, but he is so violent while sober, you wind up fearing for the children. The wobbly camera style is employed throughout, drawing attention to the camera operators instead of the characters. Director Roger Michell does well when he can keep the camera still. His young lawyer interviewees and other scenes in Affleck's office building are good.***** Changing Lanes (4/7/02) Roger Michell ~ Ben Affleck, Samuel L. Jackson, Toni Collette, Amanda Peet "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson -- brilliant.  Ben Affleck -- horrible.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie would almost be worth seeing if Ben Affleck were not in it. Once again, viewers are painfully reminded that Affleck has no acting ability whatsoever. I cannot even think of a contemporary actor today that has less talent. He is painful and trite to watch. UGH. A viewer cannot even believe his character, his acting is so bad.On the other hand, Samuel L. Jackson is nothing short of brilliant. Even though this movie is a turkey, his character was very believable and even likable in an odd sort of way. He carries the movie. I find it completely unbelievable that he did not get top billing on this movie. This film is worth watching if only to see Jackson's performance, which is never overdone and quite poignant. "},{"Title":"The writing was bad - but the acting and ending saved it!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so poorly written that events that would never happen if any of the characters were given the right to act as any human would have.......It felt as if the actors knew the script sucked, but went ahead and acted their hearts out hoping it would make up for the really bad decisions Chap Taylor, the writer, made them say and do!  Ben really was great in showing all the emotions that any guy in his position probably would go through given a situation that just gets more and more far fetched as the movie goes on............  Samuel L. Jackson was more than engrossing in his role as the man losing everything in his life and fighting alcoholism at the same time....... Toni Collette is another of the absolutely wonderful actors to come from Down Under and play with the big boys in Hollywood as if she were one of them!  I could just feel her angst and sorrow in her position at the law firm and in Banek's life........And although I've only seen Kim Staunton in one other (small) role in Dragonfly, I hope to see her in upcoming films!  Her portrayal of Gipson's wife is poignant, moving, and deserving of extreme praise - she also took the script she was given - no matter how ridiculous and made the character work! Sydney Pollack was good - but he played the same thing he always plays, so I don't think he deserves any credit - he shows no emotion and in a movie like this, given the script that he was given, that's all he could have done to save this character - so I wasn't impressed....but the others were SO good, that they overshadowed him and the awful turns and stupid decisions these characters are forced to make by the writer!I'm not sure how they did this - I've never had a movie work like this for me - normally, I would just say I didn't like it - but these actors were so good that they deserve attention and praise while I must say that I will steer clear of any Chap Taylor written movie in the future!POSSIBLE SPOILER - NOT REALLY, BUT FIGURED I'D WARN of the possibility****************************And I won't give anything away - but I will say that the ending did give some redemption to the writing - I was pleasantly surprised with it and really glad how it ends - it's almost as if Taylor saved all the truly human actions in the writing to the end..........I gave it a 7 out of 10............If it just had been written with more realistic and more true to human response to situations this movie could have been a contender! "}{"Title":"A mediocre rental flick","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story is a good one, leaving the viewer with many aspects of how we live our lives to think about. But, I was very disappointed with the writing. The dialogue is terrible at times. Sometimes, just plain silly and unrealistic.  Very little character development. In fact, I wondered how Academy Award winning screenwriter Affleck could have agreed to speak his lines. Maybe it was the editing. I'm not sure. But after about 20 minutes or so, I started wondering whether I should even finish watching it. I did, and I give it a 4.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Tedious battle of minds affair","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  4/10Two men are inextricably linked by a motoring accident and as a result have their days changed that sends both into panic.  One man (Ben Affleck as Gavin Banek) is a lawyer, and is fighting a case in the courtroom that is tinged with ethical dilemmas whilst the other man (Samuel L Jackson as Doyle Gipson) is fighting for joint custody of his children after making an effort to reconcile his family with the token gesture of buying a house.  Changing Lanes is predominantly a film that centres around the &#145;what ifs' of life and the issues that stem from this revolve around fate.  The idea isn't exactly new with &#145;Sliding Doors' touching upon this exact scenario whereby perhaps even the tiniest thing could have profound effects on a number of lives.  The film goes beyond that though and delves into the human nature of frustration and anger as both people involved in the accident are left with more problems than what they started out the day with.  In the case of Gavin Banek, he becomes intrigued by his case and asks himself personal questions of those around him whilst also analysing life for answers.  And Doyle Gipson who is fighting to save his family and who is also battling alcoholism also finds himself angered at the injustices of the world and there the perpetual cycle continues.  In all honesty the film was below average and on times was quite boring. Affleck and Jackson didn't seem to have any spark though and their characters didn't make any lasting impression.  The script was a little one-dimensional and rather predictable and although there were clear signs of moral issues and dilemma's being addressed the film seemed too jaded and lacklustre.  All in all I simply didn't care about the characters and was glad when the Hollywood ending finished the film.  "},{"Title":"Plot is not equal to theme...Warning - Possible spoilers within","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For being one of Roger Mitchell's first, it's really a fascinating movie. The score made me think very much of Insomnia (2002), and to a certain degree, Pi.  This is one of those movies that can't be grasped just by a plot outline.  e.g. if I were to describe it in a sentence, I would say, Two guys get into a wreck, one leaves the scene illegally and inadvertently leaves an important document there, and he tries to get it back.  Yes I realize that this doesn't grasp the full plot, but it'll do for our purposes...Anyway, you could say as much as you wanted about the plot and not say anything about the theme.  The theme is more wrapped in Ben Affleck's monologues.  He acted quite well it seems to me, despite my own negative feelings toward the guy.  In other areas, it seems to me that Afflecks character is very interesting.  He is bent on not forging a second document, so he goes to all ends, to procure the original document, which wasn't legit in the first place.  Seems to me this is the them of the movie...the essence of human nature.  One one hand you have Gavin Banek, who, represents evil.  Not so much evil as just not good,  while Doyle Gibson....also represents the same not goodness...This true nature is most definitely interrupted by turns of goodness, such as when Doyle has the idea to return the file, or Gavin's discomfort with the whole idea of his affair and of the dishonesty of his firm. However the facts remain that Gavin seeks vengance on Doyle, and Doyle has a constant problem with his violent temper. Both of these are out of their respective exhibitor's control, and it is this that shows me that it is their true human nature.  In fact, Affleck's character becomes disillusioned with the rule of law.  The movie spans the depths of the hypocracy of the human mind.  Capable of infinite evil, and also of incredible conviction. "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just can't figure it out. This piece of trash made over $6o mil, while a masterpiece like Bill Murray in 'The Man who knew too little' made nothing. This movie was a disgraceful waste of two very talented actors.  It was obviously not a waste of the directing or producing talents.  The fools who wrote and filmed this deserve to make nothing the next time. I watched this movie in a full house, and the laughs were very few and far between, yet the comments of 'what a stinker/lemon/dud etc were all too prevailent at the conclusion. Avoid at ALL costs. "},{"Title":"24 hours of nonsense","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Roger Michell and script-writer Chap Taylor made a movie about what can happen if you are in a haste and make bad decisions. Unfortunately the way in which they present what happened that one crucial day for the protagonists Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) and Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson) is not convincing because it is just too much accidents and too much bad will of Doyle Gipson not just to phone to Gavin Banek to restore the file. I liked the scene with the computer-expert making the account of Doyle bankrupt. I cannot belief that such thing can happen in Belgium. Why is Gavin lying all the time about the lost file? Because of this his situation gets worse. Also I could not understand how the trust board was manipulated so that a fraudulent person in this helped by the lawyers witch are the partners of Gavin, could receive millions and why the lost file was so important and had to be handed over that same day to the court. "},{"Title":"too boring","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater when it first game out and that will more than likely the last time that I see this movie.  Although I like Jackson and Affleck as actors this movie was too slow moving for my taste.  You can sum up the whole movie by saying, two people are in a rush to get somewhere, have a car accident, their property gets mixed up and then they chase each other around the city trying to even the score on each other and doing things like wiping out the ones credit report and the other one burning documents. This movie could have been re-done and could have been a better movie than it turned out to be.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite being heavily trailed and having an A list cast, this wasn't actually all that good and became a bit boring.It was like taking all the freshness of the idea and the cutting edge of Michael Douglas' D-FENS in Falling Down, and stereotyping it.Jackson & Affleck are both fine actors, but their ongoing feud through what was supposed to be the day from hell became very tiresome very quickly. "},{"Title":"Save your money. My rating is 3/10.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I became a registered user so I could comment on this one.  My family was hoping the incredibly stupid Affleck character would get hit by a bus. And the Jackson character lost all credibility when, after being unfairly treated by a judge, he rebuffed the hot-shot LAWYER who was practically squealing, I'll be your best friend!If I hadn't paid money to rent the DVD I would have stopped watching.  The ending was somewhat redeeming but I won't watch this one again. One more thing  I didn't think it deserved an R-rating.  Which was a good thing, because I did let my teenagers watch it with me. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite nice camera work, good performances and good lines this movie s spoiled by being too long, too slow and has a bad ending.There are many successful and enjoyable movies with silly plot twists. This is not one of them. The difference is that in other movies, such as Minority Report or No Way Out, the director will quickly direct your attention elsewhere. It feels like a short story that was extended too much. That said, I liked many things about Changing Lanes, Affleck and Jackson are good in their roles. William Hurt also has a nice cameo. The camera work is a treat in many places. The script has some excellent dialogue. Ultimately however the film is let down by its lack of pace and syrupy ending.   "},{"Title":"Why was this movie made?","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An all too common question now a days.  This movie was terrible.  There was really no point, besides the obvious. This movie could have been a 30 minute short, but instead it was dragged out an extra hour.  I was happy when the movie was over so I could do more important things with my life. "}{"Title":"Possibly a victim of editing, a poor and weak film.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this and had high expectations. With Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck, I had imagined this could be quite a good film too, the storyline looked interesting as well, a chance accident, handled the wrong way, leads to all sorts of misfortune. However, yes, there is a big however. I then saw it. The initial story starts off well, but even in the instigating incident of the film I found myself shaking my head and wondering why the Affleck character behaved the way he did. You know that feeling, when you see someone behave a certain way, or say a line and it's seems against character, not just for the onscreen persona, but for most human beings? Well that got to me a bit here, and at various points throughout the film. I would look at the screen and think `What?'. So that feeling aside, and accepting what the characters were doing, I found that I wasn't sympathizing with either character, and hence didn't really care what was happening to them or why. The plotline of the major case, is so weak and never explained enough to give the viewer the gravity of the situation, that again you feel there's not a great issue here. You do feel somewhat for Jackson's' character, although this quickly disappears when you see his actions. As with many movies, this could have been a great film, Jackson is perfect for this role, and I can't help but feel this has been cut apart. Not worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Ben Affleck Show","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is all about concept!  Unfortunately, this movie is another example of a stupid movie wrapped around the great concept.I'd say that the concept worked because it sucked me into renting the DVD and wasting 2 hours of my life.  It doesn't help that the DVD special features shouldn't be called 'special' in the first place.  What's up with these cheesy DVDs that have 'special' features that are just trailers, and 'making of' segments that regurgitate what I just watched?Anyway, back to the movie, Ben Affleck plays a cold-hearted lawyer and Samuel Jackson plays a recovering alcoholic father with a bad temper. These two cross paths when Affleck drives his car into Jackson's.  It's funny because I always expect Jackson to break out as his badass character from Pulp Fiction.  Seeing him timid after the collision was kind of weird.What this movie failed to do was get the audience on side with the main characters.  I was left under the impression that Jackson would do some clever revenge on Affleck.  Instead, the movie made Jackson into a weak and unconfident mouse.In addition to that, I was totally unsympathetic to Affleck's character. Instead of doing the right thing (i.e. apologize or try to make amends for ruining someone else's life), he repeatedly (I mean repeatedly) try to do worst.To top it all off, the film makers make an pathetic attempt at making Affleck and Jackson 'friends' at the end of the movie.  Are we suppose to believe Affleck has a change of heart?  After we see him as a total screw-up and b*****d?  This is some stupid writing.Instead of making this the Samuel Jackson show, the film makers unwisely try to mould it for Ben Affleck.  Dumb mistake!  This movie was a complete waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everything starts out well and the movie promises much but it never seems to go anywhere. There is no real suspense - all the plot twists don't really surprise. There is nothing truly bad (or good)  about this movie and the performances from Affleck and Jackson (and others) are solid as we would expect. The ending from the Jackson side of the story is a little too sickly sweet and he hasn't really done anything during the movie to deserve it. Affleck's change of heart in just a few hours is also unconvincing - we are given no background to support this.All in all, the movie just doesn't seem well put together, too many seperate characters who seem to be accidentally in the same movie. I think they may be trying to tell too many stories at the same time and none of them get enough attention to keep the viewer interested. "},{"Title":"When are the Oscar awards ?","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well again what can I tell here ...,or better what shall or should I tell here to the one's who come after me who read here  ...,it is hard to judge sometimes ..cause everybody has a diffrend opinion we are after all human..if it is good .So what I'm gonna say is it is a fantastic film ,great plot ,great acting ...finally again a movie where everything is on the right place,ok the story you ask ?well let me light up a tip of the veil..,it is about a man who has a bit chaotic life and about a lawyer ...and the rest see for your self I strongly recommend it to everybody..hmm have there been a Oscar reward already ?I give it 3 Oscar's I should say 1 for good acting (is there one for ?)2 for the story and as last for the directing of the movie!! "},{"Title":"If the goal of the filmmakers behind Changing Lanes was to bring the audience to their boiling point, to bring us just shy of the edge of pure rage, mission accomplished.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Forget the weak advertising campaign, forgettable poster and dull theatrical trailer, Changing Lanes doesn't sell itself very well, but it does work as a movie. Successfully surpassing the elements of a standard thriller, the movie contains enough original and interesting content and evokes genuine compassion for, if not the characters, at least the situation. Easy to identify with, the themes of the film are ones to make you think, though the story is fairly simple.   It all starts with a minor traffic accident. A Wall Street Lawyer, Gavin Banek (Ben Affeleck) on his way to the courtroom, and a recovering alcoholic father, Doyle Gibson (Samuel L. Jackson) on his way to a custody hearing meet briefly after a fender bender. In a rush to make it to the hearing, Banek refuses to exchange insurance information and instead cuts Gibson a check and leaves him insulted and without a ride. This single incident sparks a chain of events that begins with Gibson missing his custody hearing and losing his wife and kids; and Banek making a fool of himself in court without an important document and signature. Guess what happened to that document... That's right, Sam's got it. The rest of the film takes place over the course of that same day as both men go to extraordinary lengths to try and salvage their individual situations. Banek must get that file, by any means necessary, or risk losing his job and possibly going to jail for fraud if he is unable to produce that signature. Gibson's close to rock bottom, and given how he was treated not quite so keen on giving back the file. Both men blame each other for the downward spiral the day their lives have entered, and push each other's buttons to the point of no return. Intense stuff, even if the action in the film is limited.  The movie works because not only is the situation believable and on a smaller scale identifiable, but the writing reflects equally believable behavior and dialogue. Written by Chap Taylor, his first credit as a screenwriter, I believe, and rewritten by Michael Tolkin (The Player) the foundation of the film is strong. Almost everything really good about Changing Lanes is because of the script. I suspect, in fact, that the original screenplay was probably even better, with more substance than the final product. I suspect a bit of trimming and compromise may not have helped, but it certainly didn't hurt much either. As I mentioned, the movie does work. Visually there were pros and cons. Sick of blatantly flashy and labored direction, I liked the simple, more traditional approach to the film. It was a bit flat, though, compared to some of the good stuff I've seen from the same director. It's not a movie to see if you're looking for pure eye candy, nor is it a movie I'd recommend if you're looking for a lot of action.Changing Lanes is a fairly engaging movie. A solid movie, that was much better than I expected and with a lot more to offer than the promos promise. This one came in under the radar, maybe a little too low. Possibly too much promotion may have done it more harm, because it's not a big summer movie that will please an adrenaline hungry audience; but it does deserve to get some attention. Good casting and good performances, even if neither are a stretch for the two leads. The movie has great supporting performances by William Hurt as Doyle Gibson's AA sponsor and especially the incredible Toni Collette as Banek's assistant and love interest (not to be confused with his wife). Above all a solid script deserves the most credit. Changing Lanes has been the first really pleasant surprise in a new film this year. "},{"Title":"BORING? what is this a thriller or  a drama? It doesnt know!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"      Impeccably crafted and smarter than your average thriller? I think not! Changing Lanes proves nothing! in the course of a day we see two men try to kill each other and then make up in less than twenty four hours! It's absurd!      Ben Affleck's character is a cocky yuppie at the beggining and by the end his is a change of heart nice guy? That doesn't make sense!!! Sam Jackson's nuts at the beginning but not at the end, although his performance is good as always!.      Wanna see a good Affleck film go and see THE SUM OF ALL FEARS, wanna see a a good Samuel L. Jackson film go and rent 187 but whatever you do stay away from this! Sydney Pollack what were you thinking! "},{"Title":"Can I have some of whoever-thinks-this-is-a-good-movie is smoking?","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie successfully aged me two hours and took 8 bucks out of my wallet (16 if you count paying for the girlfriend)...that's pretty much the extent of it.  This was the movie that I had to suck up and go see because I dragged my girlfriend to see Spiderman last Friday (which I also didn't care for but, compared to this drivel, Spiderman was the best movie ever written).  In any case, I am a HUGE fan of Samuel L. Jackson and the only worthwhile scene was the one where he squares off with the two advertising guys in the bar.  This movie was way too drawn out for it's lack of plot and substance.  I mean, I had difficulty staying awake and my girlfriend admitted to almost falling asleep 3 times...what a yawner...to put it in perspective, the scene where Gipson comes out of his apartment to see his wife and kids across the street and NOT on their way to Oregon should have taken no longer than 10 seconds...him coming out onto the street, them across the street, him still staring at them (only now smiling)...but is that how it went???  Hell no...this scene alone took about 2 minutes with no dialog, just a series of alternating shots between him on one side of the road and them on the other side.  Propogate this waste of time across the entire screenplay and you know what you get??  Yep, the trailer...the trailer for this movie is the entire movie...the rest is just filler with no substance and the end result is a 100-minute root canal that should have gone directly to video (if it even could pass as a rental). "},{"Title":"CHANGING LANES WHY BOTHER?","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Considering all the talent for acting in this movie, it sucks! To say much more is to waste my time all over again. I walked out after about an hour, and so did other patrons. Or at least they found the movie so unrewarding as to care more about popcorn or soda, or idle conversation on their cell phone in the hallway. The plight of the characters never gained my sympathy. And I suspect that the ending would have brought little satisfaction, because it would either be too implausible or too delayed. I guess I'll never know, because I no longer care.  "},{"Title":"missed the exit","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Formulaic Hollywood flicks are beginning to really irritate me.  Maybe it is just old age.  This one feels like it was made for money ... period.  I will say that this may showcase the limit to Ben Affleck's acting ability, but I guess we are going to find out soon.  One of the previews at this film, was the new Tom Clancy movie with Affleck taking over for Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan.  Not exactly classic cinema, but it will be quite a test, maybe even a turning point, for Affleck.  Samuel L. Jackson always brings sincerity and intensity to his roles, and this is no exception.  He is just best utilized in roles with less screen time (i.e., Unbreakable, Pulp Fiction).  Lightweight Director Roger Michell (Notting Hill) does nothing to further his status - except maybe the opening credit sequence which is quite cool and unique.  One bright spot is Toni Collette (the mom from The Sixth Sense).  She is very intriguing and displays a wide array of emotion with seemingly very little effort. Oh yeah, Sydney Pollack does a nice job convincing us he is a naturally evil role model.  The story starts out promising, but quickly spins into the unbelievable and outlandish.  Subtlety could have made this quite the drama.  The whole thing with Affleck being ethically reborn made me want to puke.  No indication that this was ever even a twinkle prior to the incident.  Give me a break. "},{"Title":"They didn't change lanes fast enough.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although I liked this movie overall, I really felt that the pacing was extremely slow and drawn out.I understand you need sub-plot to help the story along but I felt that they seemed to have spent way to much time on back-story and not enough on the conflict between the two protagonists.They acting was well done but I thought the direction was not very well thought out and the director wasn't sure what parts of the script to shoot and keep and which to leave on the cutting room floor.  "}{"Title":"on the highway of life","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This drama dealt with real life issues and did it very well.  Samuel L. Jackson played, Doyle Gipson, an alcoholic separated from his wife and two boys.  Ben Affleck played, Gavin Banek, a young married lawyer just getting used to the dog eat dog world of the legal system that pursues life's ideals a few steps behind real time.  The two meet on the highway of life where for one day in their lives, Murphy's Law and the law of the jungle take precedent over common sense and moral judgement.  This trip takes all involved, on screen and off, into the world that's hard to believe exists, that of reality.  The reality that we're all human and make mistakes that harm others and ourselves.  The reality that scares some of us to the point where we hide away in a bottle or play the game of life without living it.  In the future some of us will see a new perspective as we see people yelling at each other on the highway at the scene of a fender bender.  Would it be better if our society drove bicycles?  I think not.  It probably would just make it easier to physically reach the other driver to wring his neck.  "},{"Title":"Another bad Ben Affleck film","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is an attempt by a conventional Hollywood studio (which one is inconsequential), conventional director, conventional actors and a conventional script style to make an unconventional film.  Not surprisingly, it fails on all counts.I'd like to be nice and just say that it's an interesting idea that is just not done right.  But it's really not even that interesting the way it's presented.  A couple of New Yorkers on opposite ends of the monetary and social spectrum get into a car accident.  Without getting into the silly plot, the two proceed to get hell bent on destroying the others life.  These are not necessarily bad guys at heart, mind you; their dark sides are simply taking hold of them.  The film pretends to be different in the different things the characters do to each other throughout.  The problem is, the manner and style in which this different story is presented is no different than any other garden variety thriller to come out of Hollywood.  Standard character setup, accident/plot point, altercation, altercation, altercation, revelation, revelation, happy ending.  It's really not even this that I have such a problem with.  I only point it out because I find it laughable that so many moviegoers and film critics find this film to be so different and unconventional.  Perhaps if Christopher Nolan, Aronofsky, or the Coen brothers got a hold of it, it could be those things. The real problem I have with this film are the two lead actors, especially Ben Affleck.  Twenty minutes into this film, I knew that he was incapable of playing the character the way it should be played.  Affleck is the master of playing the smug, cocky and arrogant character.  But when any sort of emotion, depth, or other dimension of the character needs to come out, I always want to laugh Affleck right off the screen.  He's a BAD actor.  His sort of cheesy and one dimensional acting could cut it in soap operas, but it doesn't fly in feature films.  This character, despite the fact that he may inherently be good, has an evil and harmful side (as we all do) that comes out throughout the day.  Affleck plays that side of the character like he's playing a video game.  And since the whole film is dependent on the believable coming out of the evil sides of Affleck and Jackson, it fails when these two actors cannot deliver.While I think this role was way too much for Affleck, I think Jackson could have pulled it off.  He's shown a dark and desperate side in a number of films.  But in this one, I found him no more convincing than Affleck.  I really would have loved to see what Guy Pearce and Don Cheadle could have done with these characters.The actors are not helped at all by a terrible script (possible spoilers).  First of all, it's another one of those there's no way all that could happen in one day films.  Not just one day, but about 8 hours.  But it's the finer points of this script that make it so implausible as a whole.  Affleck offering a blank check?  Laughable.  No one is going to do that, except maybe Bill Gates.  The incredibly easy way in which Affleck obtains the truth about his partners involvement with the signature fraud?  I'm sure that in real life, such incriminating documents would be under lock and key, not in a file cabinet where anyone could access them.  I'm no expert on cars, but I would imagine that Affleck's Mercedes would have wheel locks to prevent someone (without the proper equipment) to remove or loosen his lugnuts.  It seemed as though every scene had some sort of incredibly ridiculous thing that lied at the center of it.And then there was the happy ending, which just didn't fit in with the dark tone of the film as a whole.  Ending with the somber revelations that Affleck and Jackson make near the end would have made the film much more gritty, socially conscious and realistic, like I think they intended it to be.  What had been a C- film up to that point fell to a D for me.The supporting cast was probably the only redeeming thing about this film.  Toni Collette quietly added another subtlely solid film to her repertoire, and I wanted to see more of her character.  Sydney Pollack always seems to pick his roles carefully, this one being no exception.  The noteable exception was the laughable performance (one scene, really) of Amanda Peet.  Too much.  No one talks or makes speeches like that.Usually, good films of this nature are independently made.  There's just too much money, too many egos and too may collaborators with a major studio film.  Somewhere along the way, the dark side of this film was lost.  And that is the essence of what this film should/could have been.  Better luck next time, Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Judge Abarbanel","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In viewing Changing Lanes the film, I surmised that it was an interesting film with some unbelief to it.  The concept that ethics and morals will win or did win out.But, my curiosity was deeply tuned in about the name given to the actress who played the Judge.  How and why was the Abarbanel name used.  Does any one on the production staff know the origin or history behind the name?The Abarbanel name derives from Abravanel (and Abrabanel), a very famous Sephardic Jewish family from Spain.  The Abravanel family is of Davidic descent and a very ancient family.The most notable Abravanels' played key roles at all levels in medieval Spanish government and societal concerns for Jewish people throughout Iberia.  They were also active in the exodus from Iberia during the Spanish Inquisition. The Abravanel family is perhaps the most famous of all the Sephardic Jewish families.Did you intend for the role of the Judge to convey the message that she was a Sephardic Jewess and also a Judge or was it just a combination of mistakes that brought all this to the audience. "},{"Title":"The trailer was far more exciting than the actual movie","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Quite frankly, I was disappointed in this movie.  I think the plot for the movie is interesting but the movie left me with an empty feeling. Basically, the movie accurately addresses the fact that every day we face ethical dilemmas in life and struggle internally with our decisions.  We can often justify pursuing the wrong course of action.  In his search for the deeper meaning of life, the attorney (I can't remember his name) comes close to the truth but eventually concludes that this deeper meaning consists of good works.  Sad commentary on society but this seems to be the nearest they can approach to spiritual truth which is only revealed in the light of Jesus Christ. "},{"Title":"Changing Movies","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well first off, this movie is OK at best.  Its another one of those show the audience the best parts of the movie in the trailer movies.  Dont get me wrong the acting was fine, and Samuel L. Jackson turns in a nother wonderful performance.  HOWEVER, the movie is one best suited watching on a lazy Sunday afternoon with your friends in the confines of your house.  Do not spend your $9 here my fellow movie buffs, this is a definate one to wait on.  From the start you get the  Sunday afternoon movie vibe.  The movie proceeds slower than an old man eating soup.  Not to mention the bad guy turns good motif that gets loosely tacked on, and little explantions are yielded.  Do yourself a favor, and encourage less of these movies to be made by NOT SEEING IT in theaters.I give it a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this and was in awe! Ben and Sam did and amazing job as Gavin and Doyle. I love this movie and think that everybody should go see this movie! It is so cool how this whole movie took place on Good Friday of the Lenten season. That was awesome! GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson's rivetingest role yet","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As first,it looks like it'll take a few minutes to figure out who is the good guy,and who's the bad guy. After all,both protagonists-a rising lawyer portrayed by Ben Affleck and an insurance salesmen played by Samuel L. Jackson-are initially revealed to be sensitive,caring men. But if you wait a second here if you take the notion that this is one of those lame over the hill buddy flicks,then you are sadly mistaken. These men are primed to be enemies,meaning that,if by Hollywood standards ,one of them has to earn the brunt of our comtempt. This film however,is a rare bird and to me it is one of the rivetingest performances Samuel L. Jackson has done in recent years. This will be a sure Oscar contender for next year which basically steers clear of black and white by adorning itself in appealing shade of gray. A traffic accident on the FDR in New York sets off a chain reaction of events that finds them constantly trying to one-up each other in the dangerous game of long-reach implications. However,the movie progresses the push and pull tension not only between the characters but also between our own constantly striking allegations,and the picture itself doesn't squander its chance to just make a point about the need of people to take responsibility in this cold modern world. There is plenty of leaps for logic here as it refuses to pull no punches while at the same time it doesn't go overboard with some movies to had to just go by the same repulsive formula genre. As for Ben Affleck's performance here,this is a far cry for his recent works(whose last good film was the WWII epic Pearl Harbor)and it shows a tremendous makeover that he his acting skills spiced(and just to make a point here lets hope he can get better scripts like this one too,instead of the lame groupie poo that he's signing up for in the past). A Must See.  Rating **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Falling Down in NYC","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CHANGING LANES (2002) *** Ben Affleck, Samuel L. Jackson, Toni Collette, Sydney Pollack, Richard Jenkins, Amanda Peet,  Willliam Hurt, Kim Staunton, Dylan Baker, Matt Malloy.  `Falling Down' in New York could have been the pitch for this intriguing drama with hot-shot up-and-coming attorney (Affleck in one of his finest turns yet) who gets into a fender-bender with recovering alcoholic insurance salesman (Jackson equally excellent in one of his patented volcanic implosive roles) which escalates into an engrossing game of one-upmanship at releasing small amounts of vengeance on one another but does not become a cat&mouse/Road Runner cartoon (Thank God).  The screenplay by Chap Taylor and Michael Tolkin  allows its characters many shades of grey and lets its supporting roles shine despite a weak third act.  Smartly edited by Christopher Tellefsen and sure-handed direction by Roger Michell elevates this from possible harms way into a vigilante flick. "},{"Title":"Pure Adrenalin Rush","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A 10 if there ever was one.  Richly satisfying human drama, brilliantly plotted, acted, filmed and directed.  And if you're still looking for the suspense you thought you were going to get in Panic Room, look no further. I can hardly wait to see it again when I take my wife.  "},{"Title":"cool and fast paced","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes, what can I say. The first five minutes of the movie makes it look like and Welcome to happy ville type of movie. You're introduced to Ben Affleck's charter Gavin Banek and Samuel L. Jackson's Doyle Gibson. Gavin is a goodie-goodie lawyer, while Doyle just wants his kids back and is trying to stay sober. But then the car crash that leads to all this disaster that makes you want to watch the rest of the movie. You got Affleck charter making Jackson's life a total nightmare but then he realizes that he screwed up and Jackson's charter just wanting to go home to his kids. Now I think Sam L. Jackson is great actor and so is Ben Affleck. And the fact he doesn't look to bad when there's a close up on his face. What I thought about Changing Lanes is saying out loud augh man or gasping of what was happening to the screen. Also there were moments where it made me laugh. And you need some comedy to make it look real. Not all life is just drama they're times when you need to laugh and the movie did it in the right places. So out of a ten I'll give it a nine. Not to mention it had a happy ending.  "}{"Title":"Should be a contender for 'worst movie ever.'","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not kidding.  Half the theater laughed at the badly portrayed moments of tension at least 5 times.  The longest hour and a half of my life.  The average production company probably throws out 20 better scripts by lunch time.  I'd explain exactly what was wrong with it but it's already wasted enough of my time.  Save your money or go see ANYTHING else.  "},{"Title":"p poor","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this film is extremely irritating. samuel l jackson..the man with the most time on his hands. this man has so much time that he is able to take the nut out of some fellows car wheel, take a drink at a bar, miss a court appearance, go to a bank to arrange a lone, try endlessly to coerce his extremely grumpy and irritating wife to stay with him.. all this and he still has time to visit his kids at their school while flippantly carrying important documents around loosely in his over coat pocket ben affleck.. the man who chicanes his way between feeling guilty and being an a$$ to feeling guilty to acting like an idiot throughout until the movies conclusion if ben afflecks character feels so terribly guilty, then go to jail. do the right thing and go to jail, and send your partners their also. but do it quickly, don't leave it seemingly till the end of the movie. while your at it send samuel l jackson's character to jail as well, and his miserable wife jackson comes out with one memorable line in this film, it goes something like 'god help me let go of the things that i cannot control'. i wonder if jackson ever felt that way while making this movie? trust me this film is really bad, so please do something better with your time. "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise - Disappointing Film","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" --Contains Minor Spoilers---- Changing Lanes has a fairly interesting premise... two guys have a minor car accident leading both of them messing up a fairly important day. A tit-for-tat revenge battle ensues with each trying to outsmart the other.So, a good premise and I was looking forward to this film.Unfortunately, Changing Lanes fails to deliver in just about every way. It's not a BAD film... but it's not very good either. The acting is OK, the story is OK, the action is OK... nothing more. The whole thing really fails to ever get out of first gear never enough action to get excited about, never enough tension to draw the viewer in. The plot is really implausible at times (setting off a sprinkler system in a multi-million dollar law office just to sneak a peek at a file in a locked drawer...?) and there's nowhere near enough character development to ever make you care what happens to the protagonists.The vengeance set-pieces are clever(ish), but nothing particularly exciting either, and the film comes to a predictable and sloppy end before it ever really gets going.I've read plaudits for Affleck's performance as his best ever and even Oscar-worthy... Believe me, that's nonsense. Affleck's performance is, like everything else about the film, average, and Samuel L. Jackson's character is nothing more than a seen-it-all-before stressed-out failed husband/father having a really bad day.Watch it if it's on TV, otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Possibly the worst movie i've seen in a long time. Looks like an amateur movie. The characters are thrown without much explanation, as the situations are. Once, Jackson is shown as a great - but unstable - humanist, caring father despite alcohol problems. In the following scene, he's become a dangerous maniac and murderer. Wtf. For sure, there is no such thing as manicheism in real life, but at this point, it's inconsistency; we just don't buy it. Neither Affleck's personage is more realistic as a greedy compromising lawyer on one side hiding a generous heart. Wtf. This movie is supposed to happen in less than a day, and those guys go from hate to love to hate again to love to hate again to love finally in a few hours. Crap. And the job the director did is plainly bad we jump from one situation to another awkwardly... The only thing we want to change, if not lane, is TV channel. "},{"Title":"Real Bad Hair Day","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains spoiler Boy, when things go wrong --A minor accident on the FDR leads to a contest between the two drivers involved.  Afleck looks the part of a 30-year-old lawyer on the brink of being corrupted by his father-in-law (Pollack) and his slinky, Lady MacBeth type of wife.  Jackson, heavier, more stolid than in earlier films, is fine as the ex-alcoholic insurance man who is going to lose his wife and children because the accident delayed his arrival at court.That accident starts off a train of consequences that constitute a test for both parties.  In fact, there's an undertone of religion in the movie. Afleck shouts at a priest in the confessional.  A crucifix dangles jumpingly from the rear-view mirror of Jackson's taxi.  The sequence of events unfolds like an illustration of chaos theory with more and more hateful and drastic actions following from an overdependence of initial conditions.  They seem inevitable, given the spiteful, grasping nature of Afleck's and Jackson's characters.There are a few weaknesses in the script.  Afleck seems to change his mind about how to handle Jackson from one minute to the next without any clear logical substrate.  And the happy ending seems tacked on, redemption for the lawyer, a feebly earned family reunion for the insurance guy.Kim Staunton, as Jackson's wife, is outstanding.  She not only gives a fine performance but looks the part of a middle-aged woman with two children, desperate to start life over again, with a new and better version of Jackson, perhaps somewhere in Oregon.  Her face has features that linger in the mind.  It would have been so easy to throw some knockout younger woman into the role -- Vanessa Williams, say, or Naomi Campbell, I don't know. It's to the credit of the producers that they resisted the temptation. Amanda Pays, as Afleck's wife, is equally memorable if for different reasons.  (Wow.)  But both women are faced with tough roles.  Staunton must decide that Jackson is right for her after all.  (Why?)  And Pays, who has earlier urged Afleck to commit fraud and whatever else is necessary to maintain their uptrodden life styles, isn't the kind of woman who's going to settle for some longhair who does a lot of pro bono.  (She turned down a previous boyfriend who was a Professor of Middle English at Princeton because he wasn't good enough.  She wanted a hard-charging Wall Street lawyer.  So much for American values.)There are two set speeches in the script, too, about looking at another girl on the beach or passing someone on the street, and wondering what would have happened if you'd said hello, that weakly echoe Mister Bernstein's marvelous anecdote in Citizen Kane about the girl on the Hoboken ferry -- a white dress she had on.But it's really encouraging to see a movie like this being financed and produced and hitting the screen.  It's never going to be a blockbuster. Everyone involved must have known that.  And yet they took a chance on a low-key movie without superstars, dealing with ordinary people, without the cloying charm that is so often slathered on to movies about ordinary people. Three punches are thrown and there are two car accidents and that wraps up the action.  No explosions.  No slow motion.  Come to think of it, that last accident, when the wheel rolls off Afleck's car and the rim slams onto the pavement in a shower of spark -- that's exactly what happened to me in a 1937 Ford in the middle of the Holland Tunnel when I was a teenager, but that's neither here nor there.  I'm happy too that race is no more important here than it was in White Men Can't Jump.  Jackson isn't an African-American insurance guy.  He's an insurance guy.A flawed movie, but a mature one, even a courageous one. "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.Didn't like this movie. The premise of the main plot is all wonky- two men get in a car accident, fine. They're both in a hurry, although only Gavin (Ben Affleck) intends on remaining punctual to his engagement. Seeing as the only damage is a few busted parts on Doyle's (Samuel L. Jackson) vehicle, Gavin apologizes and offers Doyle a cheque worth $10,000 in lieu of damages (which would be more than the value of the entire crap-mobile sedan). Doyle refuses, pontificating You think I want money? It's important to me that we do this right!What do mean, do it right? Gavin IS doing it right. A man damages your car (on accident), gives you 10K, you take the car to the dealer and fix it. What more do you want? A faith-healer? My problem is that the writing then goes on to clearly delineate Gavin's impatience as the origin of conflict, instead of Doyle's obstinacy in forgoing procedure.Only gets worse after that. Next up are farcical interludes with moronic bar-tipplers, Malcolm-X raging, killer elementary schools, urban duels and Courts of Chaos. White people are exclusively portrayed as Satan Re-Incarnate; at all junctures Gavin's white associates egg him on to fouler depths of iniquity with icy detachment and pleasure. I was waiting for his Gavin's wife, especially, to rub her hands together and bellow out MU HU HAHAHA after sharing her gems of evil insight with Gavin.End of the day white people don't conspire against black people, Doyle should have taken the cheque, the writing in this movie sucks, Samuel L. Jackson is a good actor, and I've got oceanography homework to do.5/10Fin. "},{"Title":"Use caution while driving","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mainly use caution cause this movie will put you to sleep faster than heavy sedation.What a disappointment! I love Samuel L. Jackson and Ben Affleck, and this seemed like an interesting premise.....but dear Lord, the actual script....mercy.I actually, honestly fell asleep during what has to be one of the most insipid, drawn out, mind-numbing scenes in recent film history. And I am pretty sure this was supposed to be the here's what we've learned pay-off scene.It's a shame really, these actors deserve far better than to have been saddled with this. Save yourself the time and energy, this one doesn't even make my So Bad, They're Good list.tresha "},{"Title":"Preposterous and Contrived","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood has done it again. The writing is so absurd on this one that I can't believe they made this flick with a straight face, but it doesn't work as camp either.Ben plays the dumbest lawyer I've ever seen; the court system he and Samuel L. Jackson get involved with bears as much relationship to reality as a 1940's Mickey Mouse cartoon does.Every scene is contrived; a waste of some fairly decent acting by Toni Collete and Samuel L. JacksonCan't comment on the whole picture since I switched off the set mid way through. "},{"Title":"Changing the video rental","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  O.k that is a brutal pun, but... Wow...Wow was that bad. Please, please don't tell me anyone liked that. That was without a doubt the dumbest movie I have ever seen. The whole idea, script, story-line..everything was completely insane! How about the part where he ruins the guys tire....haha..so stupid. Anyway, do not see this movie, in fact run as far away from it as you can. If anyone even mentions this flick, get away. I mean fast...hurry before its too late!Thats all from BigV..over and out.2/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry but I wasn't so impressed. Some parts of the film seem to drag a little, to the point where I found myself pressing the fast forward button my remote.**WARNING - SOME SPOILERS CONTAINED HERE** I thought the best parts were when Samuel Jackson's character cleverly sidled up to Ben Affleck's merc, and displayed the bolt he had just taken off the car. That was a litle sinister. Oh - and I think that's about it. After all that chasing and overpowering, they suddenly decided to do the right thing. Samuel Jackson's character was the most annoying of all; why walk around with the file if he wasn't going to return in due course anyway?  His character seemed to get mad at everyone else, apart from the main two people who were responsible for the mess he was in Ben Affleck and himself.**SPOILER AGAIN*** I dunno - some of it just didn't come over as it could happen; I know for sure if someone - for whatever reason - mess up my credit and interfered with my kids welfare - I would not have been as calm as he was. Oh the whole, this was OK I suppose possibly 6 and a half out of 10, but I would have been even more upset if I had paid to watch this in a cinema. "}{"Title":"Save Your Money!","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the main reason i went to see 'changing lanes' was because of the 4-star review it got from roger ebert, my favorite movie-critic. to my great surprise the movie was quite bad. a plot without surprises and  pointless 'artsy-fartsy' filming techniques... the only thing that saves the movie from a lower rating is the decent acting by jackson & affleck. it's not really worth the price of the ticket. rent it on dvd if you *must* see it.rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"pure art from a promising director","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i had heard bad things about this flick but opted to check it out anyway and i wansnt dissipointed.  fredick michell did an outstand job in represtenting modern day america, Ny. Ny at its evilist and finest.  I dont want to give the flick away but am tempted so all i will say is that the cinimitography was well put together and the movie flowed well without too much action, although both samuel jackson and ben both play semi weak roles, ben comes back at the end to be a true tough american and its nice to see jackson not be so tough...he does a good job at it..i rate it 7.8 out of ten and reccomend it to people who feel detached from the world, because this movie highlights on this truth that most people feel in modern day america, where computers tell your life story and you just might not know who exactly you work for or go to bed with at night.. "},{"Title":"American movie that tries with very limited success to grapple with moral analysis","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck doesn't quite convince me as a top Wall Street lawyer. Questions of right and wrong and absolute right versus a balance of goodness over badness are cursorily tackled, but ultimately dismissed in a rather simplistic way. Affleck has a minor road accident with an insurance salesman. Attempting to resolve it rather abruptly, he sparks off a train of events that lead from bad to worse. Neither character is blameless, and there is ample room for a certain amount of soul-searching that is traditionally absent from American movies, but even this is appearance over substance, for once the audience is hooked on the difficulty of the dilemma it is solved by a white-man-saves-the-world that is worryingly and unintentionally black and white in more ways than one. "},{"Title":"You'd wish they didn't change lanes.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good plot cannot be saved by bad acting.  A bad plot with good acting is often more tolerable... as the case here is.  Acting was good, afterall, we are talking about Samuel L. Jackson.Have you ever rented a movie and after watching it thought to yourself, What a piece of @#%*! I should have rented the other movie instead of this #@%&.  The whole movie is barely bearable.  As the story (or lack thereof) unfolds, the plot (or lack thereof) gets worse and worse.  When the end credits finally start scrolling up your tv screen, you'd sigh...thank heavens, it's over.And as you eject the disc (or tape) out of your player, you'd think, What a piece of @#%*! I should have rented the other movie instead of this #@%&. "},{"Title":"Lug nuts and wing nuts coming unscrewed","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes tells of two men (Affleck & Jackson) who get into it on an expressway where their road rage turns into a day of dirty tricks and self examination. CL toys with the timeless opposition of idealism and pragmatism while awkwardly tiptoeing through a misanthropic reality where everyone seems to be subjugated by the system, the establishment, only to come to grips with reality in the end. Somewhat trite, the film does deal with matters of principal, is stylish with a good cast (Affleck excepted), and moves along quick enough that its many departures from the real world are easily overlooked. An okay watch for those into films about character. (B-) "},{"Title":"Ridiculous plot - just ridiculous.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If there was an award for the worst screenplay of the year, this would be a strong contender.  Putting aside the ridiculous - and flat-out wrong - legal antics in the courtroom, the entire plot could not have occurred if a character - any character - had bothered to have a rational 30-second discussion with any other character.  If anyone had bothered to ask other characters what their problem was, the conflict would have been resolved immediately; of course, then the director would not have raked in all that money for cranking out this crappy film.  And that, my friends, is the real fraud here. "},{"Title":"I really expected a much better movie than this from the trailer.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think I saw the same film as the other people that commented, I was really expecting a much better movie based on the trailer and the cast.I guess the editing and photography were supposed to be creative, but I found them very annoying at times. I also checked my watch more during this movie than any other I have seen in quite a while, and as we were leaving, my cousin told me she did as well.Samuel L. Jackson was the only truly great part in this mess of a film.Didn't Ben Affleck play the same character, only he was called 'Buddy,' in Bounce? Sleazy ad-man/sleazy lawyer hurts someone, then realizes he is a bad person and changes! Yippee! "},{"Title":"decent movie until its spoiled by the dumbest ending","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" i thought this movie had a great plot throughout the first 95% of the movie, keeping me close to the edge of my seat with a plot that also seemed pretty believable. it seemed like the makers of this movie, however, realized they were about to hit a certain time limit, and said oh crap, we gotta end this so they conclude all that has happened in about 2 minutes. this ruined the movie for me. i went from thinking what a great movie to saying to myself this is possibly the dumbest movie i have ever seen just because of the ending. if not for the poor conclusion, i would have given this movie a 8 or 9 out of 10, but the final few minutes of the movie deserve a negative rating. "},{"Title":"God Awful... Pure Drek!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Go to NYC if you want to walk away from your car accident w/o any police asking you why... Then walk around in a daze and visit a church and swear at the priest and - ugggghhh. Lazy story telling.Bad everything - out of focus CU's to plot holes you can drive a truck through, unremarkable acting and directing - some great back of the head, ear and hair shots! There are too many issues that take you out of the story - first threaten to do something to give drama, don't do it and then tell. Who's the girl Gavin is hooking up with and why in public of all places. She is not the least bit attractive.Please stop making these terrible excuses for movies, please. Must be the money....  "},{"Title":"Instantly forgetable snooze-fest","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sheesh, maybe I set my sights too high these days but I honestly expected more from this movie given the actors involved. The premise had promise but the execution, dialogue and plot stank, and the movie darted from boring to tedious and back with a tiresome, predictable regularity.After an hour of nothing happening... something happened! I fell asleep - thank god. 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Changing Lanes made me want to change theaters.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is sold as a thriller. There was nothing thrilling about this movie. All crucial elements to the story were shown in the trailer. Ben Afflack's character Gavin is flat and the film shows no reasonable explanation for why he suddenly changes into some one with backbone.Samuel L. Jackson's Doyle doesn't follow the character's development either. He is meant to be a regular guy who is just trying to do the right thing. Why then does he do the wrong thing? His soon-to-be or already ex-wife (this was a little confusing in the movie.) is about the least believable female character I've ever seen. We first meet her at a court date Gavin has missed. She seems unreasonable and shrewish. Then towards the end of the movie she is understanding and sympathetic then a few minutes later she is unbelievably enraged and becomes vindictive. About the only plausible character in this entire movie is William Hurt as Doyle's sponsor. He is quiet and does the only true-to-life thing in the movie. He says that Doyle is a drama queen and is only creating this turmoil for the sake of turmoil. All too true. As a part of the movie-going public I demand that a character in a drama and/or thriller have some motivation behind his actions. In Changing Lanes all any character does is act or react to move the thin plot along. This is a poorly written, and heavy-handed movie. I would not recommend it to any one.  "},{"Title":"Who Said That Ben Affleck Should Be The First Name In The Credits ?!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is great as a dramatically saturated thriller. It is one of the most important movies in the last 10 years.Firstly it's in the script. The good story, the good situations, the main characters, the 24 hours plot, and the intelligent harmonization between the social satire and the fast pace; like we're watching a very attractive action movie but with a lot of serious things to say.I loved the good meaning of Changing Leans when you suddenly have the ability to review and reexamine everything; your behaviors, feelings, thoughts, ideals, so what you believe in, and your relationships with the others. In brief, reexamine you, everybody and everything around you, to make the decision  What way do you want to walk into ? It's excellent idea to turn away accidentally from your ordinary familiar road to stop a little, get in touch with new people and new experiences, and win a powerful knowledge. A knowledge which would learn you a lot about the world and yourself in it; like having the power to revolt against falseness, opportunism, corruption and manipulation by law; as for (Ben Affleck), and suffering from addiction of nervousness, anarchism and anything makes us lost love; as for (Samuel L. Jackson).Actually the movie was about to be perfect. I must mention the scene in which (Affleck) is trying to make up a fire in the company to get the opportunity to be alone in it. Just WAW ! This short yet dexterous sequence just condenses the unique quality of the whole movie. It was well written, filmed, edited.. etc. I loved the metaphor of it; as (Affleck) himself was the real fire by his anger. And being the virtuous pure one, by uncovering the corruption, made him the conflagration and the fire fighter in the same superb time.The thing that I hated the most in that clever script was the abrupt idealistic attitude of (Affleck) in the very end (the restaurant scene) whereas it's so difficult to believe that revolutionary move when he forced his boss / that influential old fraud to admit the robbery ! (Affleck) compelled the man to return 3 million dollars to its original owners so simply, so easily, to provocative extent !! Moreover, I didn't like the performance of (Affleck) which was &#x96; as always &#x96; too icy and shallow. But no wonder, because he got such a lame charisma and flat apathetic face which by the way gave his role its shape but not its depth. Not to forget his weak way of diction; for instance the scene when he was threatening (Jackson) by bankruptcy in a phone call. And what a bad luck (Affleck) had when he got the chance to act in front of a formidable talent as well as charisma like (Samuel L. Jackson). Undoubtedly (Jackson) delivered a performance which could present his human momentum's essence plainly. Therefore the movie unfortunately has that irony of a master and a rocky rookie as 2 leads. It's a paradox that really enrages me when they put (Affleck)'s name before (Jackson)'s on the credits !(Changing Lanes) has the best. Great plot, hot drama, good meaning, all tightly made as a thriller. The only 2 mistakes though is having (Affleck), and having (Affleck) in front of (Jackson) ! "},{"Title":"Are we there yet?","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't remember how this got on my rent list. I think I clicked the wrong title, because when I saw Ben Affleck on my screen, I said to myself, I would never rent a movie with him in it.That said, I stuck it out, since Sam Jackson was in it, and he's normally good. Boy, was I sorry.When you are tempted to click on the time remaining button on your DVD remote, you know you are in trouble. Besides Ben Affleck's lack of acting abilities, the plot is totally unbelievable. There were many factual errors that bothered me (I'm glad they're noted here at IMDb's goofs section).The root of the conflict was too trivial to warrant even a speeding ticket, let alone life altering decisions. I kept hearing my mom telling me to tell the truth, and you won't have to lie to cover up a lie. If Ben's character had just for a moment done this, there would have been no movie.Save your money and take a pass on this piece of dreck. "},{"Title":"Misunderstandings and vengeance","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is all about misunderstandings. How an ordinary incident such as an insignificant car accident leads to complete turmoil in a person's life. The loss of an important document sets off a mechanism of hate and vengeance in both Affleck and Jackson that lasts approximately 24 hours. The theme is a modern version of Kafka with the identical elements of frustration and despair. The problem here however is that the rivalry between the two antagonists is not really convincing. Apart from the insignificant event that brought them together there is no real profound bond between the rivals that justifies the extreme measures they are prepared to take. The fact that both individuals are never really convinced of the legitimacy of their acts and are constantly prone to a sense of guilt is detrimental to the dramatic tension. Affleck does not get a real grip on his role and it is difficult to sympathize with Jackson as the down and out but nevertheless well-intentioned individual. The final scenes where both individuals renew their faith in life in an all's well that ends well fashion is both artificial and clumsily moralizing. "},{"Title":"Deceitful Hallucination","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is a deceitful hallucination from start to end. Every twist and turn of the movie is fully unbelievable and without touch to real life. It shows a resourceful, rich, powerful Manhattan Laweyer powerless against a poor, divorced, former alcoholic, failed suburbs sales-man.Even the build-up of the plot from the car crash is totally deceitful. Things don't work this way. Not even close. A successful and responsible lawyer would hold very tight to a document that is worth *so* much. At least as tight as not to just drop it. This and the rest of the lawyer's actions simply blow character consistency. Like a poor man will be very happy to accept a blank check and not want to do things right like it is shown in the movie.These are just a few examples. There are so many others (most of which are desire-gratifications) that it would serve no purpose to enumerate them.Moving past the form of the film, to the essence. The movie's message is that being disrespectful or even refusing to acknowledge (as a being) even the most insignificant and ignorable person will result in all hell breaking loose (even if you are a decent person otherwise). No arguments are presented to argue this claim. It is simply stated. Reality is the perfect opposite. This is the reason most of the movie is desire gratification. It is meant to make people who feel insignificant, abandoned, useless, etc. feel important.The movie got 4 and not 1 because the settings are individualistic, characters speak one at a time, there are little or no scenes with pets (or one big happy family), small children or other clique cuts. And the commercials are not for consumption-goods but for Mercedes cars. Also acting is pretty good. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those films where the trailer in the theater promises a great movies. Lies, lies, lies, lies, lies. Although the premise is great --- rare for most films coming out of Hollywood these days --- and the movie starts out with promise, it gets more boring and mundane as the film progresses. I was amazed I made it through the entire film without slipping into a coma! The great actors and parts in the film (Toni Collette, Sydney Pollack, William Hurt and Amanda Peet, playing against her usual silly, goofy cute girl image) could have been missed if you blinked for too long. This film was not worthy of their talent or Mr. Jackson's --- a total disappointment in my books. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs up","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a very good moral, was a good lesson learned. I think the movie overall deserves two thumbs up. To be humbled and not be to proud is what the main characters have to learn, because pride and anger keeps getting them into more problems. Moral Treat people as you want to be treated. Also, Ben Affleck proves that he CAN indeed act. Excellent performance from both actors in the leading roles. I wish that the movie wasn't rated R (only for language) so it would have got more of the exposure that it deserved. I showed the movie to people that HAD NEVER EVEN HEARD OF IT, but they LOVED IT! This movie deserves so much more credit and exposure than it got.Grade A  "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck's best","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Have you experienced choosing a movie you know nothing about it and it's only the sixth sense that makes you rent it and at the end you end up seeing a really great film. It's not that you have read some reviews or your friends recommended it. You know unexpected, down from the sky, and not the least because of the hunch that you had. It is really a very good feeling. This was the case with Changing Lines.I totally disagree with defining this movie as thriller or movie about revenge. I don't know for sure in what genre this one falls to; the closest I can think of is drama. It is a very serious and complex movie. It is a movie looking at the different aspects of the human nature and most of all, our natural propensity to make mistakes; and the older we get the bigger the mistakes we make.What make this film memorable are the extremely deep dialogues my favorites are the ones between husband and wife (Ben Affleck and Amanda Peet) and between sun-in-law and father-in-law (Ben Affleck and Sydney Pollack). Profound. Both leading stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson played very well, however, to me Ben's character was better explored (written) and more convincing. That is the first movie that I like him act.I would recommend this movie to all serious moviegoers. 8 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, and wholly disappointing...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ==ULMER'S RENTAL REVIEW= Changing Lanes involves two seperate men with seperate lives (Affleck and Jackson) involved in a desperate moral struggle after they have a collision while changing lanes on an interstate. Boring is a word that can describe this film, along with predictable. It wasn't bad, but after all the positive reviews and word-of-mouth, I was expecting something unpredictable to come out of the ending. Nothing happens here. Just what we expect.An interesting film, but it fails to deliver any gasps.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"a movie about revenge that doesn't work","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just didn't think this movie was very good. There wasn't enough action, and of course, the presence of Ben Affleck is sure to bring down any film.  He just isn't very believable.  In this movie, 2 guys from opposite sides of the track are involved an a car wreck, causing both to be late for important meetings.  One, Affleck, leaves an important document behind. The rest of the movie is about the devious tricks he pulls to get Sam Jackson to give it back, and Jackson, in return, does some mean things himself.  And along the way Affleck learns why so many people distrust lawyers.FINAL VERDICT  A real downer. None of the characters are likable because they are so mean. It's not worth watching. "}{"Title":"Riveting, shockingly realistic drama thriller.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Changing Lanes' is a high-octane and highly original drama/thriller. What's most interesting is the fact that it is set over the period of one day. This greatly adds to the intensity that it intends to create. But best is the sheer engagement of it all. As one action leads to an even tougher consequence, you feel utterly compelled to find out what happens next.This is all well and good, but the close attention to detail is surprising to see. The extras that appear on the streets and in the courthouse actually look like real people. They're not wearing make-up or dressed up in a fancy way, they're just normal people on a supposedly normal day. I must warn you, the less you know about the plot, the better. The `you scratch my back' motto is what goes along with the film and if you know to much about the plot, then you'll probably be bored for the first or so.Brilliant acting from the two leads aswell as the large supporting cast. The two main characters are your average stereotypes; the vain hotshot lawyer and the recovering alcoholic/ sour tempered divorcee. But Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson both bring human qualities to these roles to show more depth to their shallow exteriors. As the day goes on, their demeanours are gradually melted away, and both actors show this with the greatest expertise. Toni Collette doesn't get much conviction but does what she can with role (ditto Sydney Pollack). Kim Staunton is adequate as Jackson's bitter ex-wife. Academy Award winner William Hurt is put in a role that isn't really important in the film. The best supporting performances go to Amanda Peet as the spoilt wife and Dylan Baker as the shady associate.The script is clever and nicely executed, even if the ending is a bit too neat. `Changing Lanes' is surprisingly very good given that it didn't get much money at the box-office. Directed with flare and acted with style, this is an original and enjoyable movie. My IMDb rating 7.2/10.  "},{"Title":"FAST PACED THRILLER","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After long time I finally saw again an above average movie. The story comes quick to the point and you never know what kind of nice surprises will come next. It is not the film where you have to wait one or two thirds of the running time until something happens. It keeps you guessing during the whole film how it will continue. We see a little happy end. Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson did a very good job as a lawyer respectively as the chaos man.  The message of the film hits a very important subject of our daily life and it lets you asking if you are doing everything correctly and so on.Only one thing I didnt like and that was the music. Check this out. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Tedious bore","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The good casting and acting couldn't save this from being a tedious bore of a movie. The entire story could have been told in 5 minutes. Stretching it into a 2 hour movie made sitting through it worse than pulling teeth. A big fat zero on the * meter. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson are so great in this movie it should be a classic.  They just don't make enough of this kind of movie whereby actions and consequences take their toll.  Each one has a rage against the other but each one also has a conscience and certain amount of guilt for the revenge tactics they use upon one another.  Wow they really went over the line on bad behavior that I didn't think there could ever be a compromise between the two of them. "},{"Title":"cliched characters in an unbelievable script","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Changing Lanes is successful in squeezing maximum credibility out of name actors playing cliched characters, but not much else.  Ben Affleck is a sky's-the-limit Wall Street type who has a fender-bender with Samuel L. Jackson's despaired, recovering-alcoholic father who's trying to gain custody of his children.  Over the course of a day, the two men play a manipulative cat-and-mouse game to, as Jackson puts it, get 20 minutes of my life back.  The conflict between the two characters is convincing, even if their actions only exist in a Hollywood Fairytale World, but the movie eventually succumbs to a do-the-right-thing ending where the two men discover they're not all that different.  Ho hum.  2.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A weak movie","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Going out to see this movie was only worth thanks to the company I went with...the movie itself had very little substance; I almost slept at some of the parts.One great actor and one reasonable but certainly charismatic actor both had their talents going to waste on this one. The elements were there for a great movie, but the way it was treated ended up creating just another dumb battle of dubious moralities. Everyone treats the other very bad and very stubburnly, but in the end both get pseudo-philosophical and just forget everything.... I found the story hard to believe.What saved the movie was mainly due to the cinematography, which I quite enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Don't care about the characters, why care about the plot?","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had such great reviews, I chose to rent it even though I knew it would  be a downer about bad things happening to everyone involved.  Little did I realize  that the film would not contain a single character with whom you can sympathize.  Why should a viewer continue to watch a film when they don't care about anyone in  it? Very rarely have I found myself checking the clock so often during a well- produced film, hoping it would finally be over. Bad films are one thing--boring ones  are another. Great acting by Jackson and Affleck has no bearing on a plot that  leaves the viewer cold, bored, and cringing the next highly dubious event. It seems  as if the characters were treated as dolls by the writers, who sat around a table  brainstorming different mean things they could throw at them. Why sympathizewith a plot that does this? So now we have neither a worthy plot nor characters.  Therefore, how can this possibly be a great movie?? The answer is it's not. Anyone  who says otherwise has been duped by the emperor's new clothes. "},{"Title":"well-crafted and convincing","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Engrossing ethical drama centers around a young attorney and a divorced father whose mild traffic accident erupts into a violent and life-altering test of wills. Jackson is compelling as an unstable father who makes one last chance effort to redeem his past mistakes and stop his fed-up ex-wife from taking away his children; Affleck is equally good as an ambitious attorney who has his morale put to the test when he learns more than he wanted to know about his mendacious senior partners. A smart, original, character-driven story that analyzes human motives under harsh circumstances and holds you with knockout performances from two strong leads. *** "},{"Title":"Delivering Doctrine to the Masses","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  spoilers ahead.  A rush-hour accident on NYC's FDR Drive sets off a 24-hour downward spiral of events that destroys the lives of Gavin Banek (Ben Affleck) and Doyle Gibson (Samuel L Jackson) as they systematically try to dismantle one another in a series of vicious maneuvers that includes Banek paying to have Gibson's credit destroyed and Gibson removing the bolts from Banek's Mercedes.  The fun starts when high-powered attorney Banek, late for a high-profile court battle, crisscrosses lanes, smacking into Gibson, a recovering alcoholic on his way to the same courthouse to gain parental rights to his children.  Banek desperately needs to submit a signed form to the court that proves an elderly millionaire turned over his organization to Banek's law firm, while Gibson must show he has been approved for a loan to buy a house for his family, ultimately keeping his family together in New York.  Unbeknownst to one another, they inadvertently ruin one another's chances that day, which brings out the worst in them and, eventually, the best.  The whole thing is like a mature, thinking-man's `Spy vs. Spy,' or `Tom & Jerry The Next Generation,' as it transcends the typical, vengeance-meets-street justice theme that characteristically makes films like this so unbearable.  As the two adversaries look deep inside themselves and begin to change, it seems authentic, unlike the average Tom Cruise vehicle (where he routinely loses it all, causing him to reflect, causing him to win it all back and do the right thing. yawn!).Samuel Jackson, sporting a old-timey mustache, is pretty good in his role, as is Affleck.  Typically, Affleck is a horrible actor, but this role must hit close to home for him, as he pulls it off with mucho artistry (need I mention Reindeer Games or Dogma to back me up?).  Jackson again plays Samuel L Jackson, thorny black man, just as he has since Pulp Fiction in films like Unbreakable, The Negotiator, Sphere, Jackie Brown, even The Phantom Menace, though he seems a bit more human here.  On the other side of the fence, Toni Collete (who plays Michelle) needs bigger Hollywood roles, while Amanda Peet, as Cynthia Banek, is truly wasted talent here.Creating one of the greatest rhetorical titles in recent history (it works on so many different levels in this film), director Roger Mitchell, who won't win any humanitarian awards, makes the viewer question his/her belief systems by interjecting an almost misanthropic awareness of the human race, Wall Street ethics, wealth, religion, law, and the sanctity of marriage (there are about 300 close-up shots of wedding-rings) through symbolism, parallels and dialogue.  Mitchell generates an uniform playing field built upon frustration and desperation, asking, `Despite monetary status, religion, education, and intelligence, aren't we all just wild animals when cornered?'  With issues of morality and ethics as its backbone, Changing Lanes delivers doctrine to the masses.  "},{"Title":"Nothing to summarize","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lets just say this movie just topped my bowel movement list. The movie was ridiculous and gives new meaning to the theater of the absurd. Who would have that much time on their hands to play these stupid games? Ben Affleck got on my nerves with his cocky smile and  narcissism appeal  and Samuel appeared to want to just shoot himself through the whole movie. The only thing I will commend or give praise to is the ending. But I did not like how they just stood on opposite sides of the street staring at each other for what seemed to be 10 minutes. Slow paced, no adrenaline rush at all. Samuel did a wonderful job as always. It was one of those movies where I could stop it at anytime and do other stuff like go swimming, wash my clothes, etc and not care what I will miss or that I have it on pause. To me it was a disappointment, but by the look of the average rating it is receiving, looks like the majority give it a thumbs up. Two thumbs down! "}{"Title":"One Word  Boring","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was really excited to see this film cause the previews made it look like such a great film. I'm really sorry to say this but I found it to be boring and I found myself not even caring what happened to the characters at the ending.  The acting was the only good part about this film.  As usual Samuel L. Jackson was great and Ben Affleck was good too.  But besides the acting, I thought this film left a lot to be desired.  I give it a 2/10.  I would give it a one but the acting was good so that's why it got a 2 for my vote. "},{"Title":"the worst movie ever","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this has got to be the worst movie i have ever seen in my life. it has got to be the longest 98 minutes i have ever seen in my life. it is so bad, i dont even know how to describe. watching this movie borders on sado-machocism, i've seen pornos with better plots and better acting, i'd rather spend 98 minutes getting a root canal without painkillers. amazing how titanic at over 3 hours seems to go faster than a movie half its length. i am led to believe that every critic is on pot and other mind-altering substances, seeing as that would be the only feesible and logical explanation to giving this movie a positive review. you're more likely to find a black grandwizard of the kkk, than see any redeeming value in this movie past the first 15 seconds.  "},{"Title":"What a stinker. How can anyone rate this as even fair?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I don't get to theaters often, and was REALLY disappointed by Changing Lanes. The acting is OK as far as it goes - nobody can demonstrate rage like Samuel L. Jackson - but the plot line is between implausible and improbable. Amanda Peet is absolutely gorgeous, and Ben Affleck is as dashing as ever. But wow, what a rotten part - EVERY time he has a choice to make, he INVARIABLY takes the WRONG direction. Now, that would OK in some stories, but in Changing Places, it is very painfully obvious. The ending will leave a lot of people with a warm fuzzy feeling, but you can see it coming... "},{"Title":"too dramatic...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't that great, and I don't recommend it. Why? Because it's rated R for language, (and there's not enough of it)and the fact that they didn't use any tripods, the whole movie is handheld by the cameramen.  It's too noticable.And at the end of the movie, Ben Afleck goes off on some speech where what he's talking about makes no sense to the story whatsoever and it's too confusing and overly dramatic and the meaning behind it is unclear. Whatever.Not enough action scenes or violence or language to make this movierated R.  Wait for the video, it's way too dramatic... "},{"Title":"Do not see this movie!!!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst films I've ever seen barring the 70's classic Blackula!!!  It was a waste of my money and a waste of my damn time. Save the time and trouble and hit yourself in the head with a two by four. The acting was poor, the story ridiculous and the ending trite.  Avoid this film at all cost! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the equivalent of watching paint dry.  Absolutely nothing interesting happens during the 2 hours of your life that you'll never get back.  The acting was servicable, but both of the lead characters were so unlikable that you didn't care what happened to them by the middle of the movie.  The movie couldn't make up its mind where it wanted to take you, so you end up going nowhere.  Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie like the plague.  Save your money and look forward to all of the good movies that are coming out in May. "},{"Title":"Changing Lanes, better to chance theaters!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If your considering this flick because you believe it to be an action film...forget it!The only action is a minor fender bender.  There is very little drama and as to the two main characters, neither elicited any kind of emotional response.I'm not sure what the move was trying to convey.  I was not entertained that's for sure!  Most every event was predictable and/or implausible.  I kept wanting to care about someone in the movie, but no one was plausible enough to be liked (or disliked) except the bit players.The cinematography in the beginning is abysmal, primarily in the beginning during the credits.  It was nearly enough to make me walk out.This is of course my opinion, feel free to waste a few bucks of your own. Put both feet down and RUN from this waste of a few thousand feet of celluloid (do they still use that stuff?).Mister Jackson has done some fine work (the reason I went to see this movie).  Rest assured that he won't be winning any awards for this performance.  Lets hope he's more lucid next time he picks a script! "},{"Title":"Waste of Time (Spoiler? read with caution!)","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and I don't claim to be a movie buff. But I had high hopes for this movie and was let down big time. There was hardly any character development; just enough to give you an idea of what was going on but not enough to sympathize or understand why they reacted the way they did. Also, the movie took too long to end. The ways they insisted on getting back at each other became old and predictable. The ending was too Brady Bunch for my taste. I suppose when you see it you'll understand what I mean. Also, it seemed like every other word out of their mouths was some moral lesson that we should all take home with us. I don't go to the movies to get lectured, I go to get entertained. Like I said, I was really disappointed with this movie. Samuel L Jackson and Ben Affleck have done better performances as well. They didn't seem like they were into it. It was a story idea that had potential but eventually got flushed down the drain. "},{"Title":"Perfect for Insomniacs","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning! - Don't believe the studio marketing campaign! This is not an action movie!  Nor is it even an interesting drama.  Changing Lanes takes 2 hours (which actually feels more like 4) to tell a mediocre story at best, that could have been told in 20 minutes.  The proverbial horse gets beaten over and over again and just when you think this tedious film is finally over, they whip out the stick and beat it three or four more times.  I'm sure that all the wannabe film students out there are drooling over the quasi-indy film feel to some of the cinematography.  And for those who feel that good films only show the ugly realities of life, this film delivers, that is, if you can stay awake long enough to see it all the way through. Affleck gives a decent performance and Jackson does an admirable job with a shallow script treatment of his character, but it just wasn't enough to carry this film for me.  Bottom line, if you go, bring a pillow. "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot of this movie is really week and rather unbelievable.  That alone makes the movie hard to watch and a waist of time.  Also, Ben Aflecks acting is rather poor at times.  This is more like a low budget TV movie and isn't worth paying to see it.  I don't think it is even worth renting on video.  "}{"Title":"Changing Lanes= Asleep at the wheel","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to summarize a movie with these two great actors with one word but, this movie SUCKED!!  I fell asleep in the middle!  I asked my friend what time was it to see how much longer we has to stay in the theater she said it had only been Forty-Five minutes.  So out of respect for the movie I stayed and gave it a second chance.  I should have left and never told anyone I saw this movie.  I can't believe I passed up Panic Room for this movie just because I haven't finished the book yet.  Ben I love you in all your movies but you should have passed on this one. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.....wake me up soon?","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Do yourself a favor, DO NOT GO AND SEE THIS MOVIE!  It is by far the most boring movie I have ever seen in the last few years.  Sure there might be some good parts to it (The ending) but from about 10 minutes in till about 1/2 hour before the end of the movie, you might as well go to the bathroom, read a good book, bring a laptop or something, because you won't miss much.I thought because it has a decent cast (Affleck and Jackson) that it might be worth it to go and see the movie, WRONG.  Their roles were too over-the-top.  Sure, the actual filming was good, actually it was very appealing, with the accident scenes very spectacular, but over all the movie was a good sleep.I do believe that the most surprising part of the movie was Amanda Peet's cameo role as Afflecks convincing wife.Now, I completely expect to get flak from this review, but since this is a free society, I'm just stating my opinion.Out of a rating of 1 (Awful) to 5 (great)  I would give this movie a 1.8 "},{"Title":"lame false-advertising","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It happens to everyone occasionally. People are let down by movies that they had high expectations for. Changing Lanes was one such movie for me. My date and I both left the theater this evening completely enraged that we just wasted two hours of our lives (not to mention $20 of our money) on this horrible movie that was grossly false-advertised. I struggled to keep myself from falling asleep, and my date literally couldn't even look at the screen. If you are looking for the fast-paced adventure about fate and revenge that the trailer promises, see another movie. ANY other movie. "},{"Title":"Stuck in traffic","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a neat conceit behind Roger Michell's film 'Changing Lanes', but unfortunately, the end result is somewhat tedious. Ben Affleck's high-flying lawyer and Samuel L. Jackson's recovering alcoholic get into a car crash with each other; Affleck delays Jackson (who thus misses a hearing to determine custody of his children); but is himself inconvenienced after accidentally giving Jackson a crucial file of his. Jackson doesn't feel inclined to give it back, Affleck tries to pressure him to do so; and the two men end up sucked into a cycle of increasingly serious revenge. This might make for a sprightly comedy, but unfortunately, this movie is deadly serious, and both men come across as pompous and dull on a journey that leads to a very predictable form of reconciliation and personal discovery. This sort of scenario needs to be handled with a bit of zim, not with self-importance. Frankly, I found it very hard to care. "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yes, I just watched this movie called eh...erhm...oh, of course, Changing frames, Lanes! sorry, Changing Lanes..It was about this lawyer played by Samual L. and this white trash alcoholic bum played by Ben Afllick. They met at the courthouse to...erhm, I think Afflick wanted to adopt some kids or something. And then a piece of paper got lost and there was this old actor I've seen in movies before when he still took acting seriously. The end. I think.....All jokes aside, Changing Lanes is not th worst movie ever made. far from it even. But with the talent involved, (acting, directing and catering) such a flimsy storyline should have never been put to film.After a good 45 minutes the little plot they made up, had already been laid out and the movie just continues reluctantly to fill the other promised 45 minutes. These last 45 minutes are basically nothing more than a meagre tale about good vs. evil which was superficial to the point of being banal. And then that ending; the parody of happy endings to end all parodies of happy endings? It made my head spin from the kick in the teeth.Not only was the story flimsy and hackneyed, it was breathtakingly implausible. To list but a phew utterly unbelievable situations -You're in a real hurry to get somewhere very important, your car crashes and then u don't even try to see if the car still runs but in stead try to hitchhike to certain overduement? - You pay good money to freeze someone's assets to force him to give u something u need. The guy you just bankrupted sells you a simple no and then you instantly come crawling back on your hands and knees in remorse and regret? - If you need someone to be bankrupted completely and have it done fast, you simply call some guy and he will make it happen within three minutes without breaking a sweat and on top of that only asks 5.000 Dollars for it? And the number for this guy is given to you by your secretary? The list really just goes on and on.I can't say anyone in particular (besides Sydney Pollack who, due to retirement, had his assistant phone it in) did a bad job at acting. Nor was the direction at fault. But his movie?.. not worth the time it takes to rent it... "},{"Title":"Your successor steps in, Tommy Cruise","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Too bad for Samuel Jackson, who is really good in this one( as in most of his movies) as a small-time business man who is about to lose his court-date, and faces separation from his estranged wife and children. In a sense the movie is cut in half, on the other hand the credible story and performance of Samuel Jackson, and on the other hand the not so believable Yuppie-story with the mesmerized Ben Affleck who delivers one of his worse performance( he clearly never has delivered, but in this he really doesn't know what to do.I mean he just doesn't understand the part. Not that it comes as a big surprise), with the frequent school-boy down staring when he's supposed to be given a life lesson. Much like Tom Cruise in The Firm, inexpressive Ben Affleck, with his parasite attitude in life and on the screen, is totally miscast. He should just stick to the portraying comic book - characters, where nobody is necessarily looking for a good acting performance, and while we're at it, wear the mask, too.It's more comfortable for the audience not to see his big insipid face. Or maybe quit acting altogether...!?! But who would step into Tommy Cruise's footsteps then? "},{"Title":"Not the best but good","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK where to start, it's not that i don't like the film . Its more of the parts played by some of the actors that i didn't like. Samuel L. Jackson i think played the best part in this movie (not in his career) as he was fitting for that part, He can make any role his own make you feel like he was the one going through all that trouble not just an actor. Ben Affleck don't get me wrong people he is a great actor and has done many many many great films but this part should have never have been given to him i thought his performance in this film was dreadful after seeing him in other films i just cant bring myself to give him a good review about his role(Sorry to all the Ben Affleck fans out there). The only other great role was done was Sydney Pollack this man has been a favorite of mine since i seen him in Sliding Doors. "},{"Title":"One word BORING.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When walking into the theatre to go see Changing Lanes, I was expecting a kick-ass action/drama, I mean it stars Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson, what more do you want right?   Well my ambitions were torn to shreds the first 20 minutes of the film.  The movie was just plain boring, the climax, dialouge, plot and acting was all just boring.  Now Affleck tried to hard and Jackson not enough (or should it be the other way around?).  Well case in point, the film was boring, If you want to see a movie that will AT LEAST keep you entertained with a no where to be found plot go see Scorpian King. "},{"Title":"Changing DVDs","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An attorney, Gavin, (Ben Affleck) in a rush to get to a court appointment gets into a collision with a black insurance salesman, Doyle, (Samuel Jackson) who's on his way to a custody hearing for his kids. The accident makes Doyle miss his hearing and Gavin lose important papers that are now in Doyle's possession. Now Gavin has to get the papers from a highly irritated and hostile Doyle. This film is a exercise in missed opportunities and petty moralizing. In retrospect perhaps Roger Michell wasn't the best Director for the job, there wasn't anything in his weak cannon of films that would tip anyone off that he was capable of directing a straight thriller. Not the one-sided Titanic Town, nor the gay gabfest My Night with Reg. Long and short of this film, good (Only for the fact that almost anything that Sam Jackson is in is watchable) but WAY too much moralizing. Furthermore, the fact that the Twin Towers were digitally erased when it played theatrically, does NOT win the film any points from me My Grade C- DVD Extras Commentary by director Roger Michell; 2 Featurettes (The Making of Changing Lanes, and The Writer's Perspective); 2 Deleted scenes; an extended scene (confessional); and Theatrical Trailer "}]