[{"Title":"Elegant Hoydens","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are so few lesbian genre films OUT there. And for those lesbian genre films that do exist most have characters that are either disturbed psychopaths (my favorite- Heavenly Creatures) or cardboard cutout prototypes that have no place in my world. As result, unfortunately most lesbians are starved for good lesbian genre films.  The best lesbian roles have usually been played out in supporting role characters within the main stream.  To appease the appetite, `gaydar' commands an ever watchful eye to find those precious tidbits.However, thank heavens for the charming wit and refreshingly real characters in Kissing Jessica Stein.  Kissing Jessica Stein goes beyond the stereotypical to explore individual characters for who they are and what they are going through in their lives. The film is a positive reinforcement on the value of relationships to an individual's personal growth and spiritual evolution.Kissing Jessica Stein is a highly intelligent romantic comedy that goes deep to explore emotional relationships  Not only between Jessica and Helen but also between Jessica and her Mother, Jessica and Josh, other co-workers and all of their friends. The film highlights the importance of discovering yourself and of letting those that love and care about you know who and what makes you happy.  Ultimately anyone that truly loves you wants you to be happy.  Jessica and Helen's continued deep friendship after their breakup is testament to this.  Jessica's painting,  Josh's true love for writing and Helen's continued enjoyment of a lesbian sexual relationship is also testament.All is true to the spiritual core of the writers intent.  There is no definitive end to ongoing life.  The writers cleverly leave us to marinate within our own imaginations. "},{"Title":"A smart, funny, mold-breaking romantic comedy","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Final Score (cumulative average of various classic cinematic qualities) 9.2 (out of 10) Ok, your an attractive woman (or man, doesn't matter). You've got a good job, good friends, good family base, and nice place (complete with gorgeous spiral staircase).  You're happy. You're contributing to society. But you're single so everybody around you - who themselves are now dating, engaged, married or pregnant- is telling you that you aren't actually happy because you're not just like them.  Never mind that 43% of the population is single and 48% have never been in a successful relationship.  Couples are fascist and in the movie world being alone is a fate worse than death. That's where we pick up with Jessica Stein (cute beyond words Jennifer Westfeldt) being constantly hounded by her hyperbolically obsessed mother to hurry up and find someone like her brother.  The first few minutes of Kissing Jessica Stein are pretty routine.  It features the feisty grandma and a all-men-are-losers montage straight out of a Meg Ryan movie.  But you've got to know the mold in order to break it.  A few minutes in the movie takes a 180 degree turn at the moment when at a dinner Jessica complains about the lack of decent guys in the city and her boss and former boyfriend Josh shoots back, evicerating her. The monologue is brilliant, but never mind what he says it's a testament to the film, it's intelligence and sheer scope that he was allowed to speak up at all. As the plot kicks in, Stein becomes intrigued by a personal ad placed by another women, Helen - free spirited bi-sexual seeking her first lesbian experience.  The two slowly but surely the two begin to date and form a relationship hampered by Jessica's own neurosis and, well, let's be honest- biological sexuality.  Things get complicated from there. To call Kissing Jessica Stein a lesbian or same-sex romance is a little to boxed-in for me. While KJS could be viewed as many things, it is most accurately one of those free spirit helps straight-laced person break out of his/her shell movie.  There are many points during the first viewing of this movie where I didn't like it- afraid of where it was ultimately going.  Much to my delightful surprise, Stein's lesbian experience isn't ultimately to get her to reject men and find love, but to free her- from her own neurosis and perfectionism.  The movie doesn't show women's lesbian tendencies in the casual way of, say, Chasing Amy, but explores the sheer oddity of it as a novelty plot gimmick.  One of the best scenes in the film is Helen's gay friend voicing offense to the unfair way she seems to choose her sexuality whenever it's convenient for her.  The movie starts out seemingly filled with stereotypes (male, gay, Jewish, ect.) but before the end everyone gets their say and the true characters come out.  The ending is set up the entire movie in the many parallels between Helen and Josh.  It is perfect. Did I mention the movie was funny? It is probably the funniest movie -written by and made for women- that I have ever seen.  It's subtly funny. One of those movies where you nudge your neighbor to see if they got the joke too. The dialogue is delicious- jam packed with wit, honesty and quotable lines.  It's a comedy of ideas.  The music is great. If there's one thing in this low budget indie flick that is cinematically brilliant it's the audio visual montages. The subtle way it plays with the background music and on-screen action. In one of the more subtle examples Jessica walks up her spiral staircase- her steps exactly in time with a recurring piano note in the song.  Finally, I'm a guy and I never got the whole lesbian-chic thing. Seems like overcompensation from a bunch of homophobic men who don't realize that if all the women get together there won't be anyone for them. I originally scored KJS in the late 8's.  But the more it turned over, marinated in my head the better it got.  When I went back and re-scored it with the complete picture in my head it shimmied it's way into the 9's (this is equivalent to 4-stars).  Hopefully, this isn't the last we've seen of these two talented women.  Kissing Jessica Stein is a great movie. An endearing and invigorating people story.  I hated to take it back to the video store.  "},{"Title":"A Risky Plot That Plays Beautifully-A Glorious Winner","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The mantra of the successful and single career woman in New York City, and undoubtedly elsewhere, seems to have evolved to All the good men are either married or gay.  But still, through singles ads and avocation-based meeting places and just hope they persevere.  Few decide that answering an ad in The Village Voice placed by a lesbian or bisexual woman is an antidote to the scarce-available-man dilemma.That's just what copy editor and hopeful painter Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) does in Kissing Jessica Stein leading to an awkward first encounter, then a close friendship and ultimately an intimate relationship with a stunning, smart and funny art gallery manager, Helen (Heather Jurgenson).  The film tracks their relationships with each other and with the people in their lives - family, friends, co-workers.The story could easily have sunk to the level of a zany, fluffy, sex comedy or, perhaps, strived to be a message drama. It does neither. What makes it wonderful is that all the characters have whole lives which they live in confusion and compassion, pathos and passion.  Superficially, they are familiar Manhattan, affluent stereotypes.  In reality, they have all the longings and frailties - and strengths - of people everywhere.  The character development is real and affecting without being cloy, cynicism is at a minimum. Helen and Jessica haven't stepped out of a Woody Allen take on Manhattan life.Is Jessica really coming out for life as a lesbian or is she trolling in unfamiliar waters out of desperation for a friendship that includes intimacy?  Has Helen given up myriad lovers of both sexes to settle into a domesticated gay relationship?  Are the answers there?  Should they be?If a Lifetime Achievement Oscar for portraying the Jewish mother-in-law is ever awarded Tovah Feldshuh will get it.  In this film she hovers dangerously close to a familiar caricature while projecting a warmth and wisdom deeper than the conventional portrait of the hectoring, always worried Jewish mom. The opening scene at a Day of Atonement synagogue service is priceless.Kissing Jessica Stein is an Indie production based on the two leading actresses' collaboration in writing Lipstick, their 1997 play.  These are two very smart and insightful women I hope more comes from their fertile and caring understanding of human, not just female but human, needs.This film is very New York with scenes from a number of neighborhoods.  I have mixed feelings about the post-11 September premiere decision to delete shots of the World Trade Center and replace them with the midtown skyline. A reviewer noted that audiences at the premiere were distracted by the WTC-dominated panoramas.In a largely full theater with a number of clearly lesbian couples along with many more single people and (probably) heterosexual couples it was really nice to be part of an audience that burst into frequent laughter not based on sexual orientation but rather together as people enjoying a really clever, funny-and-serious, good film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is supremely wonderful.  It is the best romantic comedy  I  have ever seen.  The movie made me laugh, it made me cry, it was everything you could ever want in a movie.  I would recommend it to anyone. The characters are hilarious, but three dimensional and the sense of humor that the  movie carries is phenomenal.The scenes in New York and beautifully shot, also and the Jewish family is very  much like my own.  Though some characters might be called stereotypical, I  would have to thoroughly disagree and say that I thought every character had  their our twists and turns. Lastly, I thought the chemistry between Helen and Jessica was so perfect for the  movie.  At first Jessica was uncomfortable, but by the end of their relationship  Jessica was dependent on Helen. Beautiful, beautiful movie!! "},{"Title":"A rare find in romantic comedy","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know how any one could reduce the characters in this film to, 'shallow' or 'board'. This was a rare film in the romantic comedy genre which didn't follow the tired old formulas. Yet it still has a classic feel to it (great music and a beautiful aesthetic). It is a story about the validity of sexual experimentation. Some people may feel like we are born one way or the other and if we are unsure, or perhaps want to experiment then we are 'stupid' or 'frivoulous' those assumptions are what this movie is trying to combat. It isn't about being gay or straight, it's about opening up yourself to possibilities whether they are fruitful in the end or not, the experience alone can make you a better, more compassionate person, who knows what it is to be honestly seeking happiness in whatever form it may come. Bravo to the two writers and actresses in this film, it is one of the rare film's that I have enjoyed from start to finish and one that I can watch over and over and continually take joy in.I believe no movie is right for everyone, some people won't take from this film what I have. I recommend this film mainly to women from 18 to 35, straight, gay or bi. Men don't seem to be able to connect to this film on the level that women seem to, also it's politics and presumptions may be too radical for conservatives and too conservative for radicals. If you didn't like it that's okay, but its themes will speak to many people. Well written, acted, and directed. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting, Sharp Writing, Funny and Touching","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had something for everyone a loving view into a Jewish family, including religious practices we rarely get to see on screen; a relationship between two women who are trying to find the right someone who gets them; and having the courage to go after the things you want the most. Scott Cohen is gorgeous and appealing as Josh Meyer, Jessica Stein's boss, ex-boyfriend and friend of her brother. He convincingly moves from bitter and judgmental through his own emotional journey when he sees Jessica summon the courage to be happy and seek her dreams. He sings beautifully in Hebrew, too!Tovah Feldshuh was brilliant and touching as the Jewish mother with a true understanding of her daughter. No caricature here she has one of the most touching scenes in the entire film. Jackie Hoffman was fun and funny as Jessica's best friend and coworker Joan, who lives vicariously through Jessica and Helen's adventures.Jennifer Westfeldt (Jessica Stein) and Heather Juergensen (Helen Cooper) wrote, produced and starred in this wonderful, touching, funny view of single life in New York today. In fact, New York itself was a character in this film, providing both opportunities and barriers to the relationships among the characters. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Smart Romantic Comedy","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is the smartest romantic comedy that I've seen post 1990.  The writing is funny and witty.  Also, the characters are genuine. I especially enjoyed watching the chemistry between Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen.  You don't need to read more comments from more people; just go out and see this movie.  Heck, see it again; it's like reading a book for the second time (like I said, it's smart and witty).  You too can see why I call KJS a very smart romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Kissing Jessica Stein is the best kind of romantic comedy","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the beginning of Kissing Jessica Stein we meet Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) sitting in synagogue between her mother and grandmother discussing the lack of Jessica's love life. Jessica interrupts and says Shut up mother, I'm atoning. This sums up and sets the tone for the greatness of this film - Jessica is authentic and very funny.I connected instantly with Jessica as I am sure many single or recently single women can (and I'm not even Jewish). I usually hate making film comparisons to Woody Allen because a)its being done way too often and b)its just not Woody Allen who is still making great films for us. But in this case, part of my connection to Jessica is that writer and star Jennifer Westfeldt, like me, has probably seen Annie Hall one hundred times, and a great deal of Diane Keaton's Annie shines through in Jessica.Kissing Jessica Stein is a romantic comedy about a girl who basically just doesn't know what she wants, but its better than that statement. The film is very well written and very funny. The relationships explored are real and three-dimensional and every element that moves the story forward is done with subtlety and humour. There is one mistake in the writing, and the writers make it obvious that they are writers, but it doesn't matter because the film is just that good. When they start getting too far from the audience with a character philosophizing about his current stance in life, they pull us right back in with a great line You got dark. It also helps that Westfeldt is married to Jon Hamm and is friends with some of the best comedians in the business.After you finish watching Kissing Jessica Stein (which, believe me, you have to), find Westfeldt's next foray into her version of romantic comedies Ira and Abby (2006). Oh, and if for some reason you haven't yet, see Woody Allen's Annie Hall (1977) first. "},{"Title":"When it comes to love, sometimes she just can't think straight.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Stein is a beautiful Jewish journalist who always have problems with love. She is an intellectual who hates people who are superficial, and always get disappointed because she is much more intelligent or interesting than the regular guys she goes out in date. For her bad luck, her brother is getting engaged and her mother is making pressure on her to have a serious relationship with someone.And there is Helen, a sexy artist who always go out in dates with many different men (many of them at the same time) and decides to experiment something new women. With the help of her two gay friends, Helen writes a type of an advertising in the lesbian sector of the Journal. Jessica is attracted to Helen's ad,specially because it mentions one of her favorite writers, and also because she is a little tired to not have any lucky with men.Now on, what we see are hilarious situations with the shy and reluctant Jessica to accept to be with Helen, who in the other hand is crazy for the commitment. "},{"Title":"Female Woody Allen","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ive used 'marinade' as a verb - so I was bound to like this one.Highly enjoyable, honest, witty and refreshing.  As good a movie as gets made these days.  Finally a film driven by likable, intelligent characters and their relationships, not guns, explosions and two dimensional stereotypes and plots by (and for) 8 years olds.KJS has a dash of fantasy from time to time, a cracking sound track, and although I wouldnt have called it a comedy - it's funny when it needs to be.  But I think it was the honesty of the writing that I particularly took to - that and the moments that surprise.  As many have noted - the scene with the mother on the veranda is a bit special.If you like Woody Allen then this is one for you.  If you look forward to the next Van Diesel effort, then I doubt you will stay beyond the credits...ps Was the dedication 'For our parents' at the end of the film ironic?  Watching this film with your parents could quite possibly be the single most embarrassing experience of your life.....if they are anything like mine that is.... "}{"Title":"Funny, smart, fun (SPOILER)","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie, although I was a bit let down when they broke up. However, I think that made it more believable, so I forgive the writers for that. Both are beautiful, both are good actors, and I can't wait for my wife to see this one it's not your run-of-the-mill romance movie. It IS, however, a very well done romance movie, and with some very touching moments (Jennifer's mom talking to her on the porch recognizing Helen's role). The dialog reminded me of some of Kevin Smith's best (Chasing Amy) as it was witty and quick. Jennifer's character could be a bit annoying at times, but her innocence more than makes up for it. Helen is just downright SEXY! I actually dreamt of her after watching this movie... she is THAT captivating!I will see this one again, and I recommend it to everyone I know. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never been bothered by the fact that they were never nude. In my opinion, the film is not at all about sex, it's about growth and relationships. It's Jessica Stein's realization that she is the only reason she is unhappy; she has an image in her mind of what should make her happy, and this film is the story of her letting go of that and taking a risk that maybe something completely different could make her happy. It's a movie about growing, not about sex.If you haven't seen it, you should. Movies have played an important role in my life and I would say hands down, this is my favorite.That's all I was going to write, but apparently you have to write at least 10 lines. I first saw this movie when I was in college and was having that whole crisis of, What am I supposed to be doing? How do I get to the house with the 2.5 kids and white picket fence? This movie helped me realize that you can't live your life planning for the future all the time. Find the thing that makes you happy and hold on to it. Now, five or so years later, I'm happier than I ever have been, living a very fulfilling life that I'd never imagined for myself. I'm starting a film production company that I hope will someday make films like this one. "},{"Title":"Daring and original portrayal of romance","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is often described as 'When Sally met Sally...', and that is an accurate portrayal of what this movie is. It's a love story like any other, but this story is different. We have the normal 'two people meet and fall in love' scenario, but the difference here is that these two characters are the same sex, and that's what sets the film apart from it's counterparts. The central character is the lady from the title; Jessica Stein. Jessica is caught in a New York metropolis; populated by shallow people, people that are more interested in setting dates up with their friends and learning the dictionary cover to cover than they are in forming proper relations with people. This is the reason that Jessica can't find herself a man, she isn't happy to settle for second best and she wants more from a relationship than any man she knows can give her. So, after being told why she can't find herself a man by her big-headed colleague, Josh Myers; Jessica decides to step outside of her box a little and answers an ad in the 'women seeking women' section of the newspaper.Enter Helen Cooper; the lady that placed the ad, and seasoned bi-sexual. She's sexy, quirky, funny and all together lovable; as Jessica says at one point; Who wouldn't want to have sex with you?, and that is my thoughts entirely. At first, Jessica is cautious, she is predominantly straight at the end of the day and she's in over her head at first. However, the two hit it off almost immediately, and we get to watch their romance blossom. The fact that lesbianism (or homosexuality in general) is taboo is always apparent throughout this film. Helen is more of a free spirit, and the only friends of hers that we see are gay anyway, so she is always open about it. It's not the same story for Jessica, however; she's always been straight, so being open about such a relationship isn't so easy for her. That's the second half of this story; not only is it a comedy; it's also a social commentary, and it rings true not just for this subject; but just about anything that people do that isn't of the norm. The two leads are played very well by Jennifer Westfeldt (Jessica) and Heather Juergensen (Helen). These two not only do the acting, but they also wrote the film. It is evident that women wrote it, as it has a very feminine feel throughout. There is no sex in the movie, which might disappoint some viewers and instead the movie focuses on the relationship between the women and the impact that it has on their lives. This is a very good thing, as what could have been lost in a myriad of nudity and sexual innuendo, actually comes off as a very personal study of a taboo relationship. The film is also very funny. The humour on offer isn't overly blatant, and is mostly very dry; but it's definitely there and certain moments of the film literally had me in stitches.Despite all that I've so far, however; this movie isn't perfect. The character of Jessica, although obviously born of the social-conscious New York atmosphere, and therefore it is to be expected, sometimes goes over the top and can come across as being very annoying. Aside from that, the film features far too much music. It's practically saturated in it, and it's always that sad women's elevator music that I hate. The film also loses steam in it's third act, and never regains the humour and pace of the first two. Like (too) many romance films, Kissing Jessica Stein features an ambiguous ending. Call me old fashioned, but I like a film to end properly and therefore I don't like ambiguous endings, so that was a turn-off for me. However, Kissing Jessica Stein is an underrated gem and is most definitely romantic comedy at the top of it's game. See it, you won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"The better title would be How Helen found the real herself thanks to the obnoxious Jessica Stein","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" (It's a pretty long title though)I start with the most important part. This movie is boring. I wouldn't really call it romantic, much less a comedy. The story is basically about a careerist woman, who's looking for the perfect man, but meet only assholes, and finally in one of her weakest moments she answers of a woman's advert. Then of course they miraculously get together (calm down, it's the basic plot, not spoiler), and the movie goes from boring to even more boring. Actually the biggest problem with the movie isn't the plot, that's rather a cliché (I mean if we put apart the lesbian love thing) but we don't expect real deepness of a romantic comedy. The biggest problem is the main character, Jessica herself. She literally doesn't have anything interesting about her. She's good looking, but she's neither nice, nor witty, and not even socially awkward enough to be funny. I would call here average, but luckily I don't know any women who is as boring, annoying and self centered in the same time as her. The other main character, Helen is way much better. She's full of life, adventurous, and always searching for the bright side in everything. She's exactly the type of women you'd happily have as either a girlfriend, or as a friend. While I was watching the movie I wondered the whole time, what on the Earth does she sees in Jessica. Because even though it should be a romantic movie, we can't really see what causes the attraction between them, they are just put together without any explanation. There isn't real chemistry between them, they just meet, then after five minutes (of movie, by the plot it's a little longer time, maybe few hours) BANG they are in love. After they got together, the comedy is got even less part, than in the beginning, and the movie shifts to some drama, but since Jessica is almost unlikeable, it's really hard to feel her struggle with her feelings, and family and stuff. At least she would show some character development during the movie, but she stays the same obnoxious careerist as she was in the beginning. The movie has one more interesting character besides Helen, Josh, who is Jessica's boss. A burnt-out ex-writer who acts like an asshole, but it's clear from the beginning that's more behind his misanthropism. The funniest moments of the movie mostly consist him, since he honestly says what he thinks. His analysis about Jessica in the twentieth minute of the movie stays true the whole time.I'm sure the only thing that causes it to have such a high rating, is because it's not a straight love story, subsequently some people rate the idea behind it, not the finished product. And that's a mistake. There is a need for movies with this theme, but not movies that are presented so poorly as this is. Believe me if Helen was a guy, it would be rated at 5 points tops, and that would be its real value.Either looking for a comedy, a heart touching love story, or a deep drama with good characters in the center, this movie is not for you. But if you enjoy to watch the struggle of a self centered women, who has everything, yet acts like her life was as hard as a Siberian shepard's, then this is your best choice. "},{"Title":"Stylish and witty","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this at the 2002 Wellington film festival and it didn't make a lot of impact then, but watching it again on cable impressed just how well written it is, and the lead character Jessica Stein is so delightfully played. None of the characters are too goofy or silly, something which spoils many American comedies. Sex and the City must have been an influence on the scriptwriters/lead actresses but this is different, and the lesbian (or more correctly bi-sexual) theme makes a refreshing change from the usual, and should appeal to straight men as much as bi's (in fact the reasons why this should be the case are addressed directly in a scene in a bar). In all it's very well done. "},{"Title":"good enough","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a decent little film, but I felt empty at the end. I REALLY enjoyed the movie up until the last 10 minutes or so. It felt rushed and contrived and I didn't feel satisfied at all. They spend so much time building up the relationship only to wrap it up in about 2 minutes with 3 months later. Give me a break. Overall, I give it 7/10. It would have gotten a 9 if it had a decent ending. "},{"Title":"My favorite NYC movie this side of Annie Hall","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first went to see this movie I could not laugh, I was in the shadow of the fallen Twin Towers. Then we got the DVD, just before an impending move to the Desert Southwest. Boy, was I impressed. The movie is hilarious, granted, half the jokes bite hard when you're a Manhattanite and may not play well west of the Hudson, but it's definitely the best romantic comedy of the last two decades. In exile, I watched the movie so many times, absorbing the Upper West Side neighborhood that was my home, and ended up lip-syncing the dialogue (including the deleted scenes and sometimes the actresses' commentary). They got the pace right, their relationship, like a shark, never stops moving. It's really refreshing to see someone actually grow up out of the relationship, instead of dissolving into mush. Bottom line, the characters could be our friends, and our New York friends sometimes (all the time?) sound like the characters.PS/ Half of us would like them to be together, the other half thinks that's life, and as long as they're happy... "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, yet flawed film","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After having several people recommend this movie to me, I finally decided to give it a try when I saw it on cable.  I'm glad that I did, but I definitely found fault in some areas.  The film is about Jessica Stein, a woman who is fed up with the dating scene and therefore decides to reluctantly approach a relationship with another woman, Heather, after reading her personal ad in the paper.*Possible Spoilers*This is another in a series of films where the characters are impossibly beautiful, smart and charming but cannot find anyone suitable to date. Admittedly, an excuse is made for Jessica in that she is a perfectionist and therefore cannot be happy until she `lets loose a little.'  She also has an incredible apartment and the corresponding accoutrements that go along with having a fabulous existence in New York.  I bring these material details up because they are just the beginning of several circumstances that just seem to happen too quickly and easily.  The most glaring is when Jessica's mother just happens to know that she is dating a woman, and in the very next scene, Jessica's brother's wedding, suddenly the entire party is abuzz with this news and sitting around the table adoringly asking questions of `the lesbians'.  Realizing that this is supposed to be a comedy, I tried not to look too deeply into this, but I felt about as put off by this display as I did by the entire film `Chasing Amy', only this time the lesbian was not `reformed' - it is hinted that Jessica may not indeed be a lesbian at all.Having said these things, I did enjoy the film on some levels.  I thought the acting was very natural and the dialogue was generally clever.  I also think the filmmakers were right in not having a lot of character development because the basis of the movie was this one relationship, and therefore any expansion of supporting characters would have been unnecessary.  I also like the evolution of Jessica's character, one who starts out like a 21st century Annie Hall and ends up being more comfortable in her own skin despite the fact that everything doesn't work out as one may expect.  I found the ending to be very satisfactory because it cemented the conclusions that I came to earlier in the film - which is a welcome surprise because it usually does not end up that way for me; I am usually disappointed when things are wrapped up too neatly.I know that this film was largely embraced by the gay community, and while I can understand that, despite its independent production, the relationship was very much `Hollywood-ized' in my opinion.  However, having `marinated' the film, it is quite clear to me that it was not just about being a lesbian, but more in `finding oneself', as cliché as that term is. Overall, I consider it to be an enjoyable film as long as you do not turn too critical an eye to it.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"So Cute!!!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Such a sweet story, not tackling any sort of political issues of gay/straight/lesbian... It was really the story of a woman fed up with trying to find Mr. Right so she ends up finding the love of her life with the most unexpected person, a woman named Helen. The two lead characters which I was pleased to learn also wrote and directed the film were very charming and real. The performance by Jessica's mom was so honest and not at all the cliche overbearing Jewish Mother. The scene towards the end with Jessica and her mom was so touching I cried. The movie was very funny. The soundtrack was great. I did feel however that there were certain issues that were completely left out. SPOILERS IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN DO NOT READ BELOW The end of the movie she revealed her relationship with Helen to her entire family on of all days the day of her brother's wedding. Now I know that her mother was a very kind, and loving woman, but the next scene depicted herself and the rest of the family all jumping to embrace Helen and Jessica's sexuality without so much as batting an eye. That scene to me was extremely unrealistic. In addition to that; this was apparently Helen's first relationship with any woman and she never revealed that to Jessica. I found that strange. She was obviously the wild, open girl, and I feel that should have been covered. Lastly I will say that although I found this to be a truly enjoyable film, I cannot believe that it was implied that after all that she would get together with the guy. Am I supposed to believe that it was Helen who taught her how to love and experience being loved and as a result she wants to get together with her ex boyfriend? I'm not saying that she should seek out another woman, however I would have liked to see her get back with Helen as that was where she seemed to find her greatest happiness. The end seen reminded me exactly of Chasing Amy, where Jessica looked much more loose with the curly hair and dishevled clothes pursuing her artistic dream, while bumping into Josh wearing a ripped shirt who now is pursuing his writing career. They are both in a better place now and can have a healthy relationship with one another? Puuleeze. Anyhow, that not withstanding, I thought it was a good, well written story, despite my comments.  "},{"Title":"Kissing Kissing Jessica Stein","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank God!  Finally a witty, intelligent, well-acted, and well-written romantic comedy -- a watchable and lovable movie about real, believable people.  I loved the banter about the proper use of words - indicating that there are people somewhere that give a damn about such things.Yes, KJS is a movie about a romantic relationship.  But this time its girl-meets-girl.  The whole thing is so deftly and lovingly done as to cut any sexual prejudices off at the knees.  We WANT these two terrific ladies to get together!!!Jennifer Westfeldt shines as the title character, an intelligent if neurotic copy editor fearing Jewish spinsterhood while going through the trials of the hit-and-miss singles scene.  Tovah Feldshuh is masterful as the perennial Jewish mother, but has honed the character into a believable and compassionate parent.  Scott Cohen is a suave Richard Lewis lookalike (sans most of that comic's frenetic self-psychoanalysis) as Jessica's boss and former flame, a would-be writer.But in my book, Heather Juergensen steals the show as the self-assured Helen, the catalyst of the forbidden relationship.  She turns in a natural and loving performance as an all-around trendy intellectual lady of the twenty-first century looking for fulfillment on risky ground.This wonderful cast makes it really work.  Or, as stated in the movie, it's clicking.  Well, it clicked with me.  Congratulations to director Charles Herman-Wurmfeld for pulling all this together.  A great picture and not a car chase or shooting to be found!  **SPOILER ALERT**The movie has you chuckling or laughing out loud much of the time, and then suddenly trying to hold back the tears when Helen learns she is not invited to (or even informed about) Jessica's brother's wedding, and then you just have to let them loose when Jessica and her Mom sit on the porch and Feldshuh nurtures her daughter with insightful understanding and love.  My God, why haven't we seen more of these people?Two Thumbs Way, Way Up!!!  "}{"Title":"Irritating and Insulting","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica is bored and unable to chose a man who is worthy of her opinion of herself. She answers an ad placed by a woman who uses a quote she likes?!? Boom she's gay? Her putative lover Helen makes a series of trashy choices to let us know she's open to having a girlfriend as we meet her having a turn with her trans-racial (male) lover while her nebbishy married (male) lover stews a few steps away and the entire gallery full of people where this is taking place KNOW exactly what is going on. And no one seems to question her antics at her place of employment. Not only is this unsavory (although her boss and friend a gay man is obviously supposed to accept and condone this behavior) but unlikely post-Aids. Not to mention this is supposed to be a woman who would wait a month for Jessica to decide to sleep with her? (Spoiler) In the end Helen catches gay like she catches her cold. Jessica and Helen do no work on this relationship after moving in together and Jessica it turns out was just waiting for her perfect man to be artsy enough for her and return to writing. (End Spoiler)The always note perfect Tovah Feldshuh is wasted as Jessica's loving mother. Re-watch Desert Hearts if you want to see a romantic Lesbian movie and forget this dreck. "},{"Title":"Singular point of the movie (SPOILER)","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERThe simple message of this movie is nothing to do with lesbian or sexual preferences but that by taking a chance with a socially dangerous love. Hence Josh and Jessica were released from the creative insomnia they had been gripped by. Josh by seeing Jessica attempt something, and Jessica by accepting that her 'prefect or nothing' intellectual approach was hurting her emotionally. Possibly both were released by the art gallery director Helen's openness(?). This is a nice point and something more subtle and powerful than the very bland overarching sexual relationship in the movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing special but still quite sweet","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica is Jewish, uptight, slightly neurotic and single. Everyone around her is married, dating, pregnant or something and she has to take grief from her family who want to see her happy. Try as she might she can't find a guy that she likes enough to see twice. So when she sees an advertising from a woman looking for company she strangely finds herself responding and turning up to meet the bisexual Helen. The easy chat they have overcomes Jessica repulsion at the whole idea and soon they have become more than just friends. However can Jessica accept the truth herself far less be honest with others.This is a strange mix of a film that mostly does enough to work. In some ways it seems to be a quirky independent film but in many ways it is just an OK mainstream comedy. Jessica herself seems to be a strange mix between the neurotic side of Woody Allen, the quirky side of Ally McBeal and the female side of Bridget Jones. It is a strange mix but it more or less works as a piece of entertainment even if it isn't as sassy and fresh as it thinks it is. The relationship between Jessica and Helen is delivered in a pacey fashion that doesn't quite ring true due to the lack of depth to it but it does enough to keep things moving along. Laughs are not that common but the general amusing air carries it along and, although the romance is basic and the characters thin, they it is easy viewing and they still engage if you are in an undemanding mood.Westfeldt overplays her neurotic character a little bit but she just manages to keep her convincing. She has an easy chemistry with Lake which really helps cover up the lacking material they both have to deal with; it helps that they wrote it and were probably very in touch with what they were trying to do, even if they didn't necessarily do what they could have done. The rest of the cast pretty much match them in turning in workable but unspectacular performances &#150; not their failing but more to do with the fact that the script is breezy and light and not something a lot of depth can be brought out of. Herman-Wurmfeld's direction matches the light material and keeps it breezy.Overall this is a pretty sweet little film although not as fresh and fun as it thinks it is. The two leads could have done more as writers but they do have a good feel for the material and their performances help cover the material. Not many laughs or insights but it is consistently amusing and nice enough to be worth watching if you are looking for something undemanding. "},{"Title":"Cute but not more","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) is a hopelessly single gal in the city. Her Jewish mother Judy (Tovah Feldshuh) is very concern. Everybody is getting married and moving on. She has nothing but bad dates. She thinks she's getting set up with Charles (Jon Hamm) but he's actually taken. At the group diner date, co-worker Josh Meyers (Scott Cohen) insults her with biting insights and cruelty. Helen Cooper (Heather Juergensen) is a bisexual art gallery assistant who places an intriguing personal ad. Jessica decides to answer it.Westfeldt is playing the neurotic city girl. It's her goto move. It's cute. It's awkward. It has some fun. It's not particularly profound. It feels like a straight person's vision of a gay relationship. Everybody's life is different. I can buy into this relationship. It just pushes too hard with too many cute moments with cute awkward Westfeldt. It feels too light weight when the material keeps begging to be darker. It feels too much like a TV sitcom for too long. "},{"Title":"Kissing a blond-ish perfectionist","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing the trailer, I really did not think this was going to be a favorite. I thought it's gonna be a feel-good flick about coming out or maybe sexual identity confusion which would eventually be another romantic I-saw-that-already. Though admittedly there were some clichés and bad acting left noticed, what caught me sticking was the intensity in most scenes and dialogues--delivered naturally and wickedly satirical and funny! Also, I think that the way the cinematography payed attention to the small details around a particular character is exquisite (e.g. like how Jessica, for all her intellect, still has a dumb side -- maybe because her facial features are quite of a blonde's? Well, she's a Jew so I don't know ^_^ ) "},{"Title":"Lipschtick!","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The summary refers to the series of Broadway plays that the two stars Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen created that spawned this movie. I bring it up because this unique story of love and sex between and among smart,attractive and neurotic New Yorkers has the feel of a collection of dialogs and vignettes. To some,that might be bothersome or boring,but not to me.The title character(Westfeldt)is an attractive magazine editor and aspiring painter in her late twenties. While she seems okay with herself,she's not okay with her love life. Between being fixed up on dates with successful but less-than-enthralling nice Jewish men by her well-meaning but somewhat intrusive mother(Tovah Feldshuh) and the lack of men who seem to do it for her. On a whim,she answers a personal ad in a New York paper,only this time the ad is from a woman. That woman,Helen(Juergensen) is almost everything Jessica isn't fresh,open-minded,outwardly affectionate,completely satisfied with who she is and patient. The two totter through a handful of dates on the verge of going all the way(and one guess as to just who is holding back here!)before they finally take the plunge on a full physical relationship. And even though they are perfect for each other,Jessica still somehow cannot reconcile herself with this relationship and lifestyle which she mantras as being not her.Directed by Charles Herman Wurmfeld as well as adapted by co-writers Westfeldt and Juergensen,this definitely has a Woody Allen sensibility to it,from the layer dialog and pathos-riddled characters to even the sly usage of music to context the NYC backdrop. Strong support is lent by the supporting cast,most notably Scott Cohen(as Jessica's acid-tongued ex and co-worker),Jackie Hoffman(as her closest friend at work),Feldshuh,Michael Maestro and Carson Elrod(as Helen's gay friends,who are both impressed and put off by her limbo-esquire bi-or-lesbian relationship). While the whole story and some of the characters may drive even someone who genuinely enjoyed the movie(like myself)to a sense of frustration,I still found this movie a pleasant romantic comedy alternative to what much of Hollywood(and,granted,I understand WHY Hollywood would be quite reluctant to try themes like this,but still...)sends out. "},{"Title":"A Cute Performance from Westfeldt","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This charming, lightweight comedy about sexual orientation and experimentation stars the adorable, funny Jennifer Westfeldt as a good Jewish girl who decides that maybe the whole heterosexual dating thing isn't working for her, so she's going to play for the other team for a while. She begins a timid romance with a girl in much the same boat, with the exception that Westfeldt never really takes to lesbianism and the other girl does. Though the lesson she learns -- the problem in connecting with men lies in her own inability to sustain an intimate connection with another human being, not in any hidden homosexual tendencies -- is obvious, it's well told, and the director manages to keep the film from seeming glib or trendy. Westfeldt is a lovable actress, and she navigates the iffy terrain between cute and annoying very well.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A comedy with substance and real people.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A real delight.  A grown-up romantic comedy that takes place in a world with real world dilemmas, confusions and frustrations (which is not to say, of course, that it's a completely real world Funny and true and a good movie worth seeing on that basis, but Tovah Feldshuh's performance knocks it up at least two notches.  "},{"Title":"FUNNY","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, it so funny and intellegent. Jennifer Westfeldt an Heather Juegensen did a really good job. The wrote a wonderful script and act excellent. The dialogues are funny the only bad thing on this movie is that it has an end. First i rent the dvd but one day later i bought.I am waiting for the next movie of those incredible women.  "},{"Title":"Quite confused?","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jessica isn't the only one confused at the end. I thought this was a mostly great film that got a bit too self-conscious and formulaic at the end. Highly recommended, just prepare yourself for a cheesy conclusion. "}{"Title":"Interesting Urban Comedy","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) is a fastidious, uptight, 28-year-old copy editor at a Manhattan publishing company. There is no sex in Jessica's city, but only an endless stream of substandard mating possibilities hoisted on Jessica by her mother. In an uncharacteristic rash moment Jessica answers a 'women seeking women' personals ad, not because she is intrigued by the woman's description, but because she quoted Rilke. Helen, the woman who placed the ad, is quite the opposite of the reserved, anal retentive Jessica. But as they say, opposites attract, and so begins the courtship of Jessica.Kissing Jessica Stein is very New York, intellectual, and verbal. This is a comedy of manners, of conversations, of well tended, well turned phrases. Or so it attempts, and mostly succeeds. This is not your aw-shucks Meg Ryan/Sandra Bullock romantic comedy and is closer in style to Woody Allen. But it works, I enjoyed it, and if this is the type of movie you're in the mood for, it will work.    "},{"Title":"Good until the end","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It was hilarious, and very familiar at some degree. Everything in the movie went well until the end. I honeslty wish it would have turned out a little differnet then it did, but otherwise, it was funny, and very touching. "},{"Title":"Original approach of Lesbian friendship","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Jurgensen wrote this comedy about two women who feel a strong friendship for each other.  They are clever enough to understand that friendship does not automatically mean sex.They however feel very attracted to each other and they will find a solution for the problem of their friendship which gives them both so much happiness. Their surroundings will have to accept it even if they are Jewish-conservative.  This comedy reminds me somewhat of Woody Allen but it lacks its bitterness.  Everything seems smooth in this movie.  No accidents, sickness or deaths and a splendid coherent family-life seem to be the most normal of all things even if her mother has to find out that their daughter is somewhat Lesbian... "},{"Title":"Undecided.......","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I saw this movie about a week ago (maybe two) and I still haven't decided whether or not I like it..... Perhaps it's because I'm not sure about whether or not I liked Jessica Stein...she was annoying and I wanted to come through the screen and steal Helen away from her more than once... However, the role of Helen, though slightly...heck, why lie? COMPLETELY stereotypical, is the only thing that got me through it. YES, there are some GREAT lines-however, they would've been better in But I'm a Cheerleader come to think of it... On the other hand, I did smile a lot through the movie and I did enjoy some of the less obvious humor. And I did like the scenes where Jessica and Helen are trying to get more physically connected and where Jessica takes care of a sick Helen......but all of that still didn't make up for the movie in a whole..... I'm sorry if I wrote anything that spoils the movie, but really, the movie spoils itself....I give it 4 stars...... "},{"Title":"Startled from her delusions by a kiss.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Superficially, one could easily be deceived into mistaking this as a story about non-conventional relationships, or for that matter, that it is a film about women's issues.  But aside from the fact that the principal characters are women, it is about the all too common problem of relationships.  Jessica is very neurotic, expecting rather too much from each relationship while yet giving too little, with the result that no relationship is ever quite perfect enough for her, and mostly she ends up feeling lonely.  It's not that she doesn't like males, but that she can always find something wrong with them.  Then she meets Helen, a hedonist, bored with males for different reasons, and they become launched on a journey of discovery together following an awakening in the form of a kiss.If the film limited its scope to growth through discovery and self- realization, such that Jessica overcame her neurotic perfectionism and Helen surpassed her hedonism, it would have been a much better movie.  Unfortunately, it is far too self-conscious and desultory, like Jessica herself, expecting to accomplish too much while delivering too little, wondering over far too much time, and ending without adequately addressing the relationship issues it began with.  Indeed, while it pretends to question conventional relationship values, it actually promotes them, after a brief detour which mostly begs the question.  No doubt it was intended to provoke, but like Jessica, mostly it's just a tease. "},{"Title":"I wish I would have seen this one sooner","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREINFirst of all, I am so impressed.  Not only with the whole project, the actresses/writers, camera work, the story, the message, the pace, the view. Wow.  Just wow.   I really don't see how this film could have been any better.  For me to say that,  frankly, mystifies me as well.I'm not really a fan of romantic comedy, not really a fan of New York, not a fan of cutesy little jazzy song tunes, not a fan of Woody Allen,  and definitely not a fan of the aspiring yuppie middle-class wannabes. However, I was totally won over to everything.What I am a fan of is smart, witty, quirky, intelligent banter.  Oh, and neuroses, as well.  I am a big fan of these two women now, too, so I hope to see more from them; they obviously have formed a winning team.  They seem to emit such joy over making their project.Everything that needed to be in this story was there.  It's been noted that the script is chatty -- it could have been too chatty, but it wasn't. It struck a perfect balance.  Nothing was left out that needed to be there, and in reviewing the commentary and deleted scenes on the DVD I was impressed with the slick decisions that were made in sticking to Jessica's objective in the world.  It made the drama tight and compact, as well as hard-hitting. And, all this from a comedy.  It was extremely funny, with many laugh-out-loud moments for me.  The pace and timing is incredible in this movie.Poor Jessica was really easy to feel sorry for.  When Helen explains to her that people do all sorts of things to be happy then asks Jessica what she does.  Jessica  Nothing.  I'm not.  Helen states that she finds all kinds of things sexy; Jessica verbally wanders off with I don't.  In trying to be a perfectionist, and ultimately being a control freak, she doesn't realize that she is the one making herself miserable.  Helen, by contrast, is free-spirited and adventurous to the point that she makes a point of trying to experiment with lesbianism, saying it's the one thing she hasn't experienced,  while also remaining in control of herself.  Jessica, on the other hand, arrives desperately and more than a lot hesitantly that she should try it as a last resort.  I don't think Jessica feels the pressure from her family here, but she does want to be in love -- if only she would let herself be.  I think Helen shows her how, and she falls deeply in love.However, love means different things to each woman.  And, that is what ultimately leads to the demise of their relationship as girlfriends.  I was watching for a cliched ending for the lesbians, both ending up unhappy and bitter.  But,  while I was really rooting for them to make it as a couple, I can't say that the ending was unsatisfying or even rushed.  Lots of people felt it was both.  But, in all,  I think it made sense.  Jessica, still being the prude she always will be, doesn't recognize the necessity for a sexual element in a successful relationship; for her, being in love is enough.  Perhaps this is the first time she's ever loved someone, in fact. Helen wants to be wanted and craved, and is ready to give up Jessica as a girlfriend to find someone who can give her both.  She is definitely the more savvy of the two in love matters.  But she never comes across in a snotty or mean way about it; she just knows that they're not achieving what they set out for.  Jessica is freed, in a sense, to pursue other things. Which may or may not involve the third male character who Jessica used to date.  That is left wide open at the end, and not shoved down our throats, with Jessica and Helen remaining the best friends they've always been. Which is how I like a movie to end, and I think it made loads of sense. "},{"Title":"Also known as, When Sally met Sally ...","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly the best romantic comedy ever.  I gave it an eight, but if we were voting within genres, it would deserve a ten. The writing, acting and direction are all crisp and on the button.  This would make a great date movie, assuming you're not a pair of homophobes. Among all genres, an eight; among romantic comedies, a ten! "},{"Title":"Liked It, Not Sure Why","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a strange experience for me.  Overall, I did enjoy the movie but I'm not exactly sure why.First off, the characterization of Jessica Stein was so whiny and uncertain that I couldn't fathom why Helen (or anyone else) would want to pursue the relationship.  The premise that 2 straight women would get together by way of a personals ad stretched my boundaries of believability, especially given the multiple hangups contained in Jessica's character.Jessica's family was sterotypical yet I found her grandmother quite funny in her few moments on screen.  It was difficult for me to see such an easy acceptance of Jessica's relationship with Helen coming from a mother than practically shoved marriage down her daughters throat.  It seemed unlikely that she would take this news so well.The movie moved along pretty well for the first 1/2 and then began to unravel towards the end.  So much time spent on their building a foundation for a relationship only to spend cursory time ending it.  Almost as an afterthought to get Jessica back together with Josh.  Helen rode off into the sunset with another woman, seemingly changing her lifestyle.  In the end, I don't feel that Jessica Stein learned anything about herself.  I certainly didn't. "},{"Title":"Swell Evening w/ the Girls!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't give a synopsis as there are at least 90 of them here already.  What I will say is that this is a smart, funny and endearing date movie for everyone who's ever had a conflict of self.  It's billed as a lesbian movie, but it's not, not really.  Although an unlikely situation, it's not improbable, and watching these two characters go through the stumble of finding love in an unexpected place and then dealing with the ramifications of that is pure delight.  Heather Juergensen and Jennifer Westfeldt have written an engaging story more about the human condition than anything else, and it is akin to some of the greatest romantic comedies ever made -- Annie Hall (certainly, as it is quite derivitive of it).  There are no overt sex scenes and no nudity and at the risk of sounding like a prude, it was refreshing to have something left to the imagination.  Hollywood should follow this lead.Also true with great romantic comedies, this film is not simply about love, but about people.  It's about people and relationships and what one goes through to find their self, and in spite of its R rating by the MPAA, it is highly recommended viewing for all adult audiences. "},{"Title":"Light and Refreshing","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very refreshing movie for once.  Excellent dialog which seemed very natural.  Some scenes were a little corney but funny.  Very well acted by all parties.  Their stage experience really shines in this movie.  If you are looking for a different movie that isn't spoon fed to you or makes you feel like you are being talked down to, rent this one. "}{"Title":"Not like anything you've ever seen before","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's funny, touching, raunchy and more . . . but mostly it's just plain damn funny.  Everyone is right on for their parts and the two leads are marvelous.  To tell you more about Jessica is to deprive you of the pleasure of discovering her yourself, so I won't.  But you really should because you'll be sorry if you don't. "},{"Title":"Smart, witty and truly wonderful","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard a lot of buzz about this film, and was dying to rent it on DVD. This film delighted the hell out of me.  It's smart, witty and funny.  How often do I get use those 3 words in one sentence when describing most comedies?  I was also delighted to find out the two beautiful, charismatic stars of the film also wrote the screenplay.  So I can credit them as both terrific actresses and great writers.  The cast is full of unknowns who even I (being that I know practically every actor and actress, big and small) never heard of.  Well, after seeing them in this film, I hope to see them more and more.  I'm pretty sure they will experience success in the future. I first saw Aaron Eckhart in the hilarious, micro-budget comedy In the Company of Men.  I thought to myself, He is one hell of an actor! Before I knew it, he's cast in big films like Any Given Sunday and Erin Brockovich.  Hopefully, the same happens to Heather and Jennifer (the stars).  It's rare that you see actresses who are as beautiful as they are fine actresses, being that Hollywood is a society that cares more about beauty than skills.  I also loved the woman who played the Jewish mother. She had some hilarious scenes.  The same goes for the actress who plays Jennifer's best friend/co-worker.  Basically, the cast is bursting with talent.As I said in my review of Sidewalks of New York, I'm often more inspired (being an aspiring filmmaker) by little films like this than big-budget studio films.  Listening to the audio commentaries, I heard all sorts of stories about the cast and crew struggling to maintain locations and when they finally did, they were only able to shoot about 2 or 3 takes. Whereas in Hollywood, they either find the perfect location in a second or simply design a set on a soundstage.  New York City seems like a great place to shoot films, since it's great to look at and people in NY don't frequently bother filmmakers while they're shooting.  New Yorkers have seen so much that a film crew means little to them.  And even with such cheap production values, they produced such a wonderful film that tops most Hollywood comedies I've seen.Most of the conversations between the women are entertaining and witty, yet not stilted.  The dialogue is realistic and true to each character. Though this is a feel-good comedy, being that it made me feel really good, it isn't manipulative.  Nobody running after their lovers the minute they board a plane to France and making big, giant, melodramatic speeches.  Even the ending is true to the characters.  Some audiences (especially those who are accustomed to mainstream film) might be disappointed at the unconventional, open-ended conclusion, but I liked it a lot.  It wasn't gloriously happy or operatically (not sure if that's actually a word) depressing.  But I still had a smile on my face.  The comedy is very funny, but not dry or over-the-top.  Comedy is best when derived from realism.I don't think the way most men think, so I can't judge whether or not this will be classified as a chick flick and whether or not the average guy will actually find it entertaining.  All I know is I was entertained.  The average guy might be tempted to watch it, after their girlfriends force them, since it deals with lesbianism.  But if that's their motivation, they'll be sorely disappointed.  There's no gratuitous girl-girl love scene (the kind that only occurs on the Spice Channel).  But if you're a woman or not the average guy, I definitely recommend this delightful, funny, well-written, well-acted romantic comedy.  You'll be very impressed!My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"What a lot of fun","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I don't think this deserved an R.  I watched with my wife and we laughed all over this thing and fell equally as silent at times. It was a lot of fun to watch, and handled the whole plot very nicely. Not too delicate and not to flagrant. Probably pretty much how the average curious person might handle such a situation.I can't say I was very fulfilled with the ending, but it didn't ruin anything, unless you try to put too much thought into it. The message could seem a bit unclear, if there even IS a message.Many of the scenes were VERY hot and sexy, but still had a sexual innocence to them. And sorry to ruin it for someone loking for it, but I don't recall there actually being and nudity.  It's a shame if it was given the R rating only because it deals with non-het situations directly.I gave it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Fresh and enjoyable","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a fresh and enjoyable romantic comedy with the twist that it centres on two basically straight New York women who experiment with a lesbian relationship. It could so easily have been prurient or embarrassing or just plain sexist, but that it succeeds so well and so endearingly is down to Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen.These two wrote and performed the original off-off-Broadway play and have now successfully transfered their scripting and thespian talents to the screen. Westfeldt plays the eponymous Jessica, a Jewish singleton who sets impossible standards for both herself and her male suitors, while Juergensen is the cooler Helen who seduces Jessica into trying something Sapphic. The dialogue and acting are very naturalistic and, together with direction by Charles Herman-Wurmfeld, it makes for entertaining, if undemanding, viewing. "},{"Title":"Amazing, Funny, and Straight to your heart","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film two days ago, and I've watched it twice since.  You will fall in love with these people and you want to know what comes next for them.  Do yourself a favor and see this film!  I promise you you'll be happy you did! "},{"Title":"A woman should have directed this movie!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film. The Jessica Stein character is amazing, and totally relateable to the point where I found myself in tears. She is what Ali Mcbeal should have been, but failed to be. However, as much as I left this movie moved, I felt like something was missing. It was as if the director was apologizing for the lesbian references. The scenes with the two women seemed awkward at best, and I felt like the director just didn't get it. It was truly a shame, because this movie, in every other sense was spectacular. I may be coming from a feminist-filmmaker perspective here, but I think the screenplay would have been far better served if a woman would have tackled it. It is, after all, a girl's story. "},{"Title":"All we need is one quote and we'd be done.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Kissing Jessica Stein' took a funny and lighthearted approach at depicting the difficulties we face in obtaining a happy and meaningful relationship. In doing so, Jessica Stein's neurotic, nothing is ever good enough, easy to find faults, never satisfied persona hit way too close to home (seeing as how I'm exactly like that). With the big 30 around the corner and one unsuccessful relationship after another, Jessica is willing to try just about anything to find true happiness &#150; even the `L' word. I found it highly amusing to watch two adult women meandering through a relationship the way two 10-year old school kids just beginning to find the opposite sex attractive would. Everything is a question, genuinely confusing, and truly scary.The performances from everyone in the movie were wonderful, and I loved the writing. After much internal debate as to a rating of 7 or 8, I went with the higher of the two. It may not be a film for everyone, but go in with an open mind and I think you'll really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Ultimately disappointing","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein has the makings of a fine romantic comedy - it starts out quite funny, and continues in a quirky, funny vein through much of the film.But ultimately, this movie was disappointing.  The fun started to disappear around half way through, and the last quarter of the movie became somewhat annoying, with unexpected and unwanted plot twists. Worst of all, it became, well, boring.It was still worth watching, but it could have been much better.  "},{"Title":"meh","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did I miss something or is this a movie about a person so shallow and frivolous that she can't even what varieties of sex turn her on?  It seems that it boils down to what lifestyle can be properly accessorized.  It's like lesbianism seen through the eyes of old marketing guys.The whole movie had a creepy Lifetime TV/'Friends' vibe.  Awful cliches like the New York skyline at night panned along with classic jazz and the succession-of-lame-dates-at-the-door-cam are dredged up.  The dorky old self-discovery-through-dating plot is given a prime time twist.  Lastly, it's a little jarring to hear all that literary pretense being thrown around in a work that is so pedestrian in its dialogue, visuals and storytelling. (The vaguely ethnic, vaguely bohemian, vaguely daring lesbian character could be replaced by any sort of `edgy' male and the one distinct element of this movie would evaporate.)  "},{"Title":"Girls, take your clothes off when having sex!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is the point of a prudish movie about sex? The girls are constantly in bed, but never take their clothes off. Why do we still have such rubbish in the 21st century? But, of course, the movie is not of the 21st century, it is stuck in cliche-land of many decades past. Even apart from the fundamental botching of the presentation of sex, the film is trite and unoriginal. Much of it comes across as an old-fashioned travelogue for the hicks about visiting New York.  "}{"Title":"Is this a lesbian movie or a bisexual movie?","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wouldn't care if it was either but I thought the ending was just so stupid because Jessica and Helen were meant for each other. I mean, this story was meant to be based on a young Jewish woman trying to find herself who she truly is. I thought Helen was a great example for being with her because she had ticked all the boxes and just someone you can easily look up to. I thought it was a big mistake that she had to dump Jessica just because they were lacking having sex which is stupid for the writers to just break the characters apart.I don't know why they added in Josh into this, he's like a stalker and a pervert who just wants to use Jessica just because she is beautiful! Seriously, I have never seen a movie turn out bad in the end in my life! "},{"Title":"Ahead Of Its Time","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish Heather Juergensen and Jennifer Westfeldt collaborated on further scripts as the writing is what stands out the most. It is extremely intelligent, witty, and really makes you understand the life circumstances of the two main characters.It has more serious tone than more recent Romantic Comedies, yet is still light enough to make you laugh during certain instances. I was really impressed with Heather's acting and how she was able to perpetuate her character's sexuality on screen. In contrast, Jennifer displayed a very conservative character well.This movie sat on my watch list for a year as I never expected much from it. I was extremely surprised by how well rounded the movie was and the unconventional nature of it. I would definitely say it is worth watching. But do not go into it expecting it to be the typical Romantic Comedy, as it definitely is not.True Score 7.3 "},{"Title":"Intelligent and fun movie with one naive detail","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kissing Jessica Stein is a intelligent film, with some real qualities that made me see it several times. Every scene is well thought, well played, visually brilliant, almost nothing is extra, nothing is lacking. I would recommend it to anyone.Two main characters seem to be very opposite, however, when they get to know each other, it turns out they have a lot in common, they are both perfectionists searching for a real thing, just in different ways.There is a very tiny line between a woman who sleeps with many people, and a woman who sleeps with nobody. Jessica seems to be very shy, very reserved, and proper, while actually deeply inside she keeps her sex appeal under the lock. Helen, who is very sexual and very experienced in practical stuff, realizes immediately how sexy Jessica actually is. That is why she keeps being so patient and persistent with her, waiting for Jessica's sexuality to come to the surface. That is the best quality of the movie two women from different universes actually come to the same they are so much into each other, once they give each other a chance.What is naive in this movie is the end. In general, the film very sharply shows how smart, intelligent, and opinionated women in NY are simply wasting time by looking for a perfect guy. There is no such thing for them, and instead of pleasing their families and friends expectations, they should look for alternative ways to find happiness - and it often turns out be a happiness with women. While the break up of Helen and Jessica in the end is still believable, since they both still have a lot to explore, it is very naive to hint that Jessica is in the end excited for meeting that guy, Josh, whom she has already dated in the past, and whom she dropped long time ago, without any interest. In spite of Josh now becoming a writer, it is not realistic to believe that a woman who moved on, and developed herself and her self-confidence, would now go back to the deprecating, judgmental and macho guy whom she dropped even when she was much less experienced, and much less self-confident. I see this part of the movie as nothing but simple lip-service to hetero audience who still would like to see a boy with a girl in the movie. Otherwise, the whole Josh role has no any real function in the story, it is mostly occupying the space to add some flavor for straight viewers. Well, it was 2001, one can even understand that calculation, it was still early in the game. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but felt rushed and played WAY too safe just for the sake of it","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before tonight, I have never even heard of this movie. I also don't normally watch romantic comedies because many times, they are very corny and just don't work. Now, while this movie isn't perfect (and believe me, it is VERY far from perfect), it is interesting in both premise and title.Kissing Jessica Stein actually starts off on a promising note. While the 2 love interests (Jessica and Helen) have very different beginnings, their chemistry as a couple is really believable. Because of that, I am on board for a lesbian love story. Throughout the movie, I kept rooting for their relationship to grow and for a while, it does. Jessica and Helen I think are a really cute couple and when they're in love, they are very likable as characters. As Jessica and Helen make out, it gives a sexy vibe to the movie.But, giving this indie film a chance, my praise ends as I leave that last paragraph. See, this film could have been much more, but instead, we get a totally watered-down, rushed plot that is really just a cöcktease and past the make outs, the film never really goes anywhere and instead plays it safe. In a film about lesbian relationships, it would have been a better move to show a few scenes of nudity since it stated the 2 girls have sex, and as an indie film about a lesbian relationship, this probably would have benefited more as an NC-17 film rather than an R.The transitioning is so fast that it becomes haphazard really quick. As a result, the plot has no flesh, no development, and many times throughout the movie, I am left wondering what happened. It isn't all like this because obviously the heart-to- heart Jessica and her mother have has time to be in the movie, but many scenes (a make up scene between Jessica and Helen is most definitely one of those scenes) could have used a few more minutes time given to the scene so that I could understand the happenings of the film a little more.Speaking of which, the ending where Jessica and Helen break up for good and become just friends really defeats the purpose of the film and so it squanders a chance to really be something special. Once again, how this all happens is rushed to oblivion and it really doesn't work. It would have done better to let the 2 girls grow in love with one another and end in their own wedding. Instead, it becomes a clichéd guy gets a girl ending that just doesn't fit in at all.One last thing, the soundtrack is atrocious. Good songs are ruined by bad covers, and the songs I haven't heard before ruin the mood of the movie. The only thing these songs add to anything about the movie is how safe this movie plays.So with everything said, I welcome gay relationships in movies. Brokeback Mountain and Boys Don't Cry do this very well. But in the case of this movie, it could have been a great movie, yet it didn't want to take risks and instead went for a rushed, safe plot. "},{"Title":"All About Relationships","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Relationships are complicated things. Sometimes even messy. When does a friendship cross the boundary line and become a relationship? Can it? Will it work? What do we do when we find that the relationships we've been involved in are unsatisfying, and we want - more. Of something? Kissing Jessica Stein explores the complicated nature of relationships and it does so in a very mature and thoughtful way. The very nature of the story could have lent itself to the movie becoming a sort of slapstick comedy. Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) is a terminally single young woman in New York City. Her mother (Tovah Feldshuh) is constantly trying to find the right Jewish man for her, but none of the relationships click. Then, seemingly out of the blue and on a whim, Jessica responds to a personal ad from Helen (Heather Juergensen), whose looking for friendship and possibly more. Helen wants the experience of being with a woman, Jessica's looking for the connection. They meet, and the movie charts the course of their relationship, and it does so both well and tastefully.Although it obviously is the engine driving the movie forward, the lesbianism angle is never really the front and centre issue. It's the development of the relationship, and the way in which the people around both Jessica and Helen react as the relationship cautiously becomes more open from Helen's gay male friend who sees this as a betrayal of the gay community because he doesn't think either Helen or Jessica are really gay, to the very touching scene with Jessica's mother in which she basically tells Jessica that she just wants her to be happy with whoever can do that. But the awkwardness is always front and centre - especially the awkwardness between the two leads. I thought that Westfeldt and Juergensen had a great on-screen chemistry, and a part of that chemistry was the ability to showcase the awkwardness. This began as an experiment for Helen, but in the end she wanted something deeper, more passionate and long-lasting. For Jessica, everything began cautiously - and it's hard to know exactly what she wanted. Did she just want a friend, with some intimacy mixed in, or did she want an actual relationship? A partner to share her life with? It was interesting to watch the evolution, and to wait to discover if this was going to have a happily ever after ending or not.I was happy that this didn't turn out to be a lame comedy. It had that potential, but turned out to be at times humorous but always sensitive. I was also glad that it wasn't a message movie. I never had the sense of having any sort of agenda pushed at me. It was just an account of two people struggling through a relationship that was both fulfilling and awkward for both of them for various reasons. It's a bit dated by now, almost 12 years after it first appeared. Does anybody really use personal ads to meet someone anymore? But update that in your head, and pretend that they met online, and this still has a fresh and satisfying feel to it. (6/10) "},{"Title":"NOT a romantic comedy....","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen romantic comedies and this canNOT be categorized as a romantic comedy at all. this is no where near a romantic comedy. it is about a girl who thinks everything should be perfect and finds herself in the middle of a relationship with another girl. it is a bad combination of actors first of all. it is not at all funny, irritating sometimes...it could have been a good movie about a girl trying to be a something she is not but the combination of some fatal errors including NOT coming up with a good script, bad casting etc,. gave the movie a hard time. on the other hand it is not a very bad movie either. watch it if you have nothing else to do and don't expect particularly anything from the movie. i did that and saw it in spite of having my exam on the next day and i think it was a complete waste of time... so i rate it 5/10... "},{"Title":"Wheres Juergensen and Cohen??","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Scott Cohen and especially Heather Juergensen were absolutely fantastic in this film! How is it possible that this movie is the ONLY acting credit listed for each of them on IMDb? A crime against nature! A great, funny, moving film. Everyone in the cast was excellent, the film was shot beautifully, and the writing was sharp, crisp and laugh-out-loud funny on numerous occasions. As a professor of psychology, I plan on adding this film to the many I show in my Human Sexuality classes at grad schools here in Los Angeles. One quibble the film felt oh-so-complete once we reached the dancing montage after Jessica and Helen were finally able to negotiate their way to a mutually satisfying partnership, along with the support of family and friends...I would have much preferred the film ending here. The subsequent scenes felt a tad pandering (to dominant hetero-normative discourses), but small complaint in response to a really terrific film. "},{"Title":"When Jessica Met Helen","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A wonderful girl-meets-girl romantic comedy, smartly written by its two stars, Westfeldt and Juergensen. Westfeldt, who looks like Lisa Kudrow and acts like Woody Allen, is beautiful and endearing as Jessica, a straight girl who stumbles into romance with Juergensen, who is not a conventional beauty but has an alluring presence as a lusting bi-sexual. There are also good performances from Cohen as Jessica's bitter boss and Feldshuh as Jessica's very Jewish mother. There is a touching scene between Westfeldt and Feldshuh, nicely filmed in one long take by Director Herman-Wurmfeld, as they discuss Jessica's problems arising from her exacting standards regarding partners. "},{"Title":"Intriguing film about love","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Right from the start, this movie somehow grabbed me... it wasn't particularly fast-moving or laugh-out-loud funny and it didn't immediately seem like revolutionary film-making. I caught TV ads for this for about a day before it came on, and decided that, had I nothing better to do when it aired, I'd at least give it a fair hearing. The quirky nature and the straight(pardon the pun) tone drew me in, and I found myself watching all of it closely. The plot is very well-written and develops nicely throughout. The pacing is pretty good, if somewhat uneven. The characters are detailed and credible, and you find yourself truly wondering how things will turn out for these people. The acting is pretty good, all-round. The two female leads were both very involving. The comments on love are insightful and intelligent. The whole thing was pretty well-written. The humor is subtle and comes across more as footnotes than a part of the film. I can see people watching this and not laughing even once. The jokes are well-implemented and don't really disrupt the flow of the plot or get in the way. Given the homosexuality in the plot, this could easily have turned into a moralizing tale... or succumb to sappy sentimentality. Instead, it artfully dodges most(if not all) of the clichés and creates a truly interesting story about a romance that you hadn't expected. While it falls a little short, partly due to the abrupt nature of some parts of it and the somewhat unsatisfying ending. All in all, still a great film on the subject of love. Good for a few laughs and, more to the point, for some thoughts on love. I recommend this to any fan of movies about love, just know that the film is about lesbianism. Personally, I'm not bothered by that, but I know that will find that to be a problem. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Charming, intelligent, swiftly moving","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was recommended to me years ago, and I just got round to seeing it. I'm glad I did.The film is modest (which is a plus), creates genuine and charming characters, causes them to go through dilemmas that certainly parallel others that have occurred in our own lives, is amusing, and ends nicely.I wasn't aware before seeing the movie that the two actresses who star in it - wrote it. But one can see the remarkable rapport they have in dialog - it's evident that the two rehearsed this together - in a good way. (And to listen to the two actresses' commentary on the DVD is wonderful - they're both so articulate, enthusiastic, intelligent and obviously like one another - the last is not always so evident with joint commentaries on DVDs).Some of the humor comes simply from quite different backgrounds of work, friends, family (though we only see Jessica's family) as much as it does from attitudes toward sexuality.The characters are simply winning - so you quite care about them and what they're going through.This is a charming film. "}{"Title":"Sweet good feeling story of love.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film, for one reason only to see the handsome actor Scott Cohen in it. I was in fact take aback, this film is really very good. The shots of new york are brilliant, the acting was rather good. Some parts of the character of Jessica reminded myself of me!.I enjoyed it so much that I'm thinking about buying it so i can watch it at a later date. I might add thought that it Scott's acting was really good in it. He pulled very similar character facial expressions as his earlier outing as Wolf in the tenth kingdom.For all you romantic's out there, this film should be added to your list why i hear you ask! cause sometimes love comes in different forms. Always remember though, love is important for everyone to grow!!! GOOD FILM ! "},{"Title":"Do What Your Heart Wants","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very entertaining film, had its funny moments, and some very serious situations that needed to be resolved. This film opened the door for many people to observe what goes on between two human beings, whether it is same sex or simply male and female. Jennifer Westfeldt,(Jessica Stein),Keep Your Distance,'05, wanted to find love and the men she did meet were all creeps. Jessica finally ran into Heather Juergensen,(Helen Cooper),Red Roses & Petrol,'03, and fell deeply in love with her, their mind, body and soul exploded when they were with each other. Jessica's Jewish family accepted Helen, provided she practiced the Jewish Faith and had lots of laughs among the family. Things started to change and like some male and female marriages, one partner needed more sex than the other and had the I have a headache syndrome. Jessica & Helen gave an outstanding performance and showed that people who are in love, male vs. male, female vs. female must cling to each other if Love is the main reason they want to be together. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh my gosh this movie was very nicely done with nothing lacking. The ending was perfect though i thought that it would of been nice if the directors cut of Josh! I didn't like the fact that they might have ended up together again he didn't deserve her. Besides that i also think that the girl that took the Flyer from Jessica at the was a lesbian that would of been cool if Jessica went for a her and stayed a lesbian.No nudity needed. I must admit though they were a very cute couple.Other then that it was perfect. There is also no need for a sequel to be added it would of ruined the story for some people. Also the actors couldn't have been more real they actually did excellent. "},{"Title":"While looking for Mr. Right, did she find MS. Right?","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie takes a rather daring look at the boundaries of sexuality, love, and friendship, and comes to some most unusual conclusions. In the process, we meet some very endearing characters, who put themselves in some decidedly odd situations. And in the end, we are grateful to have come along on their journey.Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) is a plucky, single, young journalist from a tight knit Jewish family. While in college, she dated her brother's best friend, Josh Myers (Scott Cohen), who is now her boss. As the movie starts, we see Jessica out on a string of disastrous dates. She is invited to dinner at the home of friends, who have also invited Josh, and another man whom she doesn't know. She regales the company with stories of her dating woes, and Josh unsympathetically dresses her down, stating that perhaps the problem isn't the men she's seeing, maybe it's her. Demoralized by this, she is further humiliated when the other man, whom she thought was a fix up attempt by her friends turns out to be engaged. In the aftermath of another disastrous night, Jessica reads an ad in the village voice, sent in by Helen Cooper (Heather Juergensen), a frustrated woman who has been urged by her gay male friends to look for another woman instead of a man this time. Intrigued at a woman who seems to be everything she is looking for - other than male, that is - Jessica answers the ad. The two meet, and bond immediately. While Jessica is comfortable with a platonic friendship at first, Helen convinces her to try a more physical relationship. This eventually leads to a romance which raises as many questions as it answers about the nature of love, friendship, and sexuality.The film is a thoughtful presentation of two women exploring their sexuality. It appears to fall into the standard romantic comedy format using two women at first. But subtly, it starts to stray, first with an exploration of the familial reaction to Jessica's emerging lesbianism, and ultimately by breaking the two women up over differences in the sexual nature of their relationship. Jessica is perfectly happy with a less sexual and more companionable relationship. Helen wants a more physical one. What is wonderful, although perhaps a stretch, is the portrayal of their continuing friendship even after they have broken up. The ending with Jessica heading back to heterosexuality may seem like a letdown to those who were wishing for a couple that rode off into the sunset, but it is actually a lot more realistic, in that it points out that some people do go back to heterosexual relationships after a homosexual one. Whether Jessica will find happiness there is left as an open question.The acting is delightful. Westfeldt and Juergensen give excellent performances, and develop characters that you can't help caring about. Tovah Feldschuh gives a scene stealing performance as Jessica's mother, and the scene where she lets Jessica know that she not only loves her, but accepts Helen as well, is perhaps the most touching in the movie. Scott Cohen's performance is also strong, showing a vulnerability beneath the abrasive exterior. He's a jerk, but you like him anyway.The film was indeed groundbreaking, not only in its subject matter, but in its treatment of it as well. While Jessica's character seems to feel that it's the person, not the gender who is most important, Helen's points out that the physical is as important as the emotional, if not more so. Neither side is portrayed as right, and each are presented with equal validity.A movie which makes you think while it entertains you - a rarity in this, or any other era. Well worth watching, or watching again. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The creators of this film have tackled a very uncomfortable issue for many (the relationship between two women) and have tastefully created a highly entertaining movie. Jessica is a cynical person who never seems to have any fun. Tired of the dating scene, she answers a woman's personal ad on a whim. When she goes to a bar to meet the woman she chickens out. However, the woman, who seems to be unhappy in her own relationships, seems to be immediately attracted to Jessica and tries to introduce herself. Jessica apologizes to the woman for wasting her time and tries to unsuccessfully hail a cab. The woman then spills the contents of her bag causing Jessica to pause and help her. That pause is all she needs to begin a conversation. During the conversation, Jessica admits to never doing anything spontaneous, claiming that is not her. The woman rather rapidly kisses Jessica who seems to enjoy the kiss. They say goodbye and Jessica leaves it go at that, prepared to go back to her normal cynical life. However, her personality seems to change. She is cheery and dreamy at work and apparently can't get the woman out of her mind. What follows is a series of dates that in which the cold fish Jessica very slowly lets her guard down until a real relationship develops between her and the woman. What follows is that once Jessica accepts her relationship with the woman, she finds it very difficult to share the news of her relationship with her family and other friends. There are some very touching moments, where Jessica's fear almost destroys the one relationship that seems to have turned her life around and to give some happiness to her. "},{"Title":"Some casually well written scenes but overall average","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kissing Jessica Stein did not offer me, as an avid movie watcher, anything original. There were however a few high points of the film that I would like to include. The scene which featured the camera panning through rooms in an apartment as if passing from day to day, to show Jessica and Helen working with their first-time lesbian experience was very well directed. Jessica was showing much reserve and reticence and Helen tried calmly to be quietly okay with her timidity even though she is definitely more sexually evolved than her partner. The one great movement or gesture in this scene that features the camera panning through the days, is when the two female actresses are making out and Jessica is happy about how well she managed herself and how good, in the technical sense, it was going that she completely stops kissing Helen and says Hey, that one was really good, now wasn't it? and holds out her hand for Helen to slap. Very casual and unscripted. The ability to act can be transmitted beautifully if the actors take the time to study their craft through observation, not rote memorization. They did so here and it worked very well. More scenes attempted this formulaic production method. For instance, when Jessica tells her post-pregnant friend about her lesbian friend and she flips out. The conversation and banter were fluid and believable. But the attempts were tried in vain in some examples like when Jessica is putting up fliers in a book store and runs into Josh Myers. They uncomfortably engage in a conversation where each person interjects and the other relaxes at inappropriate periods to let the other speak or to finish a thought. The scene had potential but it was too rushed and awkward. The movie itself was well-written and for a romantic comedy, well acted. The story needed more tweaking, so I have decided to give this film a 6 out of 10. 5 being average. "},{"Title":"effervescent, honest take on female friendship","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" These two amateur autuers nail the combination of realism, humor and message. Westfeldt and Juergensen's script doesn't shy away from portraying Stein's neuroses without remission as well as her rather conceited requirement that her friends have an abnormal degree of erudition. They get away with it because of Helen's balancing influence of organic non-chalance. The two brilliantly play off of each other and their conflicting character traits such that none of them weigh down the film for the viewer.The ending is truly one to be envied (don't read on if you will see but haven't yet). Most big budget films would only pretend to end true, but this one actually does, sticking to the essential reality of the situation and staying withing the confines of its expounded philosophy (credit the poet Rilke). The Shawshank Redemption, Ruby In Paradise, Trainspotting, Hero, Tigerland...all movies with endings extraordinarily true to their premise. Kissing Jessica Stein follows these, and you get the additional treat of feeling as if you're in their world since the movie's indie sensibility is palpable throughout (passers-by obviously stop and gawk and the camera, they sample a lot of different neighborhood establishments that are easy to imagine as their personal hangouts). None of this mentions that fact that Tovah Feldshuh as Stein's lovingly autocratic mother is genius, commanding both sensitivity and charisma with aplomb.I highly recommend this movie as one that will add some wisdom and a smile to your day. And the bonus features on the new DVD are above average, with a particularly good featurette of the costars taking you on a movie scene tour of their New York neighborhood. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie!!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE this movie! It's great! It makes me laugh and cry every time I watch it (at least once a week). For being an independent film, these two girls have made a spectacular movie! My life is the same basic story, so I can completely relate to everything going on in it. The situations are real and are portrayed correctly as far as problems that this couple faces, being out in today's society. If you have the full DVD, the extras and deleted scenes are hilarious! I can't believe they cut some of them, they're almost as funny as the movie itself! I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone no matter if they are male, female, straight, gay, whatever....JUST WATCH IT!!!  "},{"Title":"A Truly Great Romantic Comedy","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is a lesbian romantic comedy written by two straight women who manage to get the details right.Jessica Stein is a neurotic copy editor, frustrated artist who can't seem to meet a man who can live up to her expectations.  The bad dating montage is hilarious; makes one ask just how many women Jim J Bullock really has dated.The conversations as Jessica and Helen get to know each other, about shoes and that perfect shade of lipstick, hit just the right note.  Once they start dating, Jessica's neuroses come to the forefront.  The sequence in which the women make out on their couches over a series of dates is laugh out loud funny.I saw this movie first in a movie theater with my best friend, a gay man, and we laughed till we cried.  Then we cried during the dramatic scene on the porch between Jessica and her mother, played by Tovah Feldshuh.  I think anyone who's ever been worried about whether their family will accept them (or their relationship) will be able to relate to the emotion in this scene.Without giving anything away--  personally, I would have liked a different ending, but I felt this was the right ending for this story.  Overall, Kissing Jessica Stein is one of my favorite romantic comedies and also, a great lesbian movie. "},{"Title":"ab fab!!!!","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i love the film so much, that im watching it right now for the 6th time this year! i think that the film is fantasically acted and the story is just so realistic! it has really inspired me. i really found that in life there is so much more. i watched the film for the firt time a month ago, and still on my 6th watch i am dumbfounded. i would like to thank the makers of this film for helping me. helping me in so many ways. i can't remember the last time i have been so touched by a film, and when it happens, it's fantasic. for all women out there, this is the film for you. you will feel moved and touched by this lovely, lovely film. thank you for making such a beautiful film!Katy Newley London, England. xxxx "}{"Title":"Charm at it's best!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have wanted to see this movie for quite sometime now and have never been able to find at my local video stores for rent.  The other day, however, it was playing on my canadian sattelite.  And, much to my delight, it was an amazing movie.  The story revolves around two women, Jessica and Helen (i think) who are both searching for love.  Jessica is the unlucky, who can;t find anyone to love whatever she does.  And after a few (horrible) blind dates, she becomes fed up and decides to try women.  Helen, on the other hand, is just bored w/ men and wants something new.  The two meet on a blind date (ironic? yes!) and are automatically attracted to one another.  From then on, the movies charm keeps on rising faster than hot air.  Sexy, hilarious, and moving, Kissing Jessica Stein is perfect for a date for two or even a group of friends.  Watch this movie and come out feeling like anew person. "},{"Title":"What I think of the film...","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is very creatively done with its openness, courage and honesty about being a lesbian or bisexual. I know, I can relate to it. It's one of the wittiest movies ever and good coming out of the closet movie too. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a cool movie and not because it had girl on girl action. It was very funny to see a straight women adventure out and explore her sexuality. The only problem I had was with the ending. Watch the movie and judge for yourself.Rating Eight Thumbs Up "},{"Title":"Superb...","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie! I just finished watching it after hearing so many good things, and this is one of the few movies that lives up to its praise. The acting is phenomenal and everything about the film feels real. It never falls back on any tired cliches; it stays true to its characters and never tries to bulls*** anyone. 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good but could've been better","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this last weekend.  I liked the movie even though it has some problems.  Jessica kept reminding me of Diane Keaton in Annie Hall.  Then there is the ending which didn't make sense to me in addition to being disappointing seeing as we'd all invested a lot in rooting for Helen and Jessica to make it work.  I have a theory that what happened is that Jennifer and Heather were working on writing together and decided to do something about a woman who is disillusioned with men and dating.  Lesbian chic is all the rage now so they put that in, but being two straight girls and wanting to appeal to mainstream America they watered it all down and gave it a safe ending that won't offend.  The only sexual content is some heavy kissing and Helen talking to Jessica at the vegie stand about when I go down on you.  I also didn't like that you got the idea that Jessica had done her agonizing over lesbianism before asking Helen to her brother's wedding. And that by the time she and Helen go to the wedding Jessica has decided she is a lesbian.  Then it seems as if she isn't a lesbian because she doesn't want sex with Helen once their living together.  Its all too confusing.  Then there was that scene where Jessica has all the sex toy brochures and talks about the gross out factor saying she considered lesbianism ewww.  Then she's on the couch kissing Helen.  By the time you've gone through all Jessica's mental contortions you want Jessica and Helen to stay together but Jennifer and Heather took the mainstream America approach instead and it was a mistake in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic comedy","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Other people have already summed up this refreshing, sharp, New York gem of a movie about the dating game and confusion about sexual orientation.  The movie would most likely appeal to brighter, more sophisticated audiences who are acquainted with the people and the milieu, such as folks who admire shows like Sex and the City.    I would like to add only a few comments to what has already been written.  First, Tovah Feldshuh is wonderful, as always, as Jessica's Jewish mama from Scarsdale, and, like most Jewish mamas, her character is uncannily intuitive.  (And then there's also Jessica'a grandma, who makes the horrified observation when she learns Jessica is dating another woman  But she's flat-chested!!!) Second, in the DVD version, the extras include a number of deleted scenes, which are as hysterical as many of the scenes included in the movie and were cut for valid pacing, balance, and structural reasons.  Now, in most DVDs, deleted scenes deservedly wind up on the cutting room floor, but in Kissing Jessica Stein, one still can't help but wish a few of the scenes had been restored.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the sweeter romantic comedies to come out in the last few years. Good performances by the two female leads make this a winner. I like how it stayed away from gross out gags, graphic sex talk and sex scenes and went for a more subtle approach. I also like the New York locales and music! "},{"Title":"Cute, cuddly, and very charming!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say - I LOVED Kissing Jessica Stein! It was cute, funny, charming, heart-tugging, warm, everything a good romantic comedy should be. As a guy who has had a string of bad luck myself in the dating field, I could really relate to this movie, especially to the title character.Jessica Stein is a newspaper copy editor in NYC who is 28 and feeling the pressure of still being single, especially when her brother gets engaged. After the obligatory montage of blind dates where Jessica meets up with clod after clod (my favorite is the would-be writer who keeps using the wrong words in his jingo), the sexless single girl happens to spot a personal ad that quotes one of her favorite poems. Which is great, until she spots that the ad is a Women Seeking Women entry. But then, after another disastrous blind date, our heroine decides she has nothing left to lose and arranges to meet with Helen, the girl who placed the ad. An art gallery manager, Helen is not really a lesbian either; it's merely that her relationships with men are primarily sexual, and she wants to get some emotional content in her life.This film is not a belly-laugh comedy (although there were a few lines that had me almost on the floor), but rather a gentle, more subtle type of comedy. Most of the laughs come from Jessica's neuroses as she tries to start a relationship with Helen. Jessica is like a younger, female Woody Allen; only a lot easier to watch. And while the movie is enjoyable from start to finish, the screen just sparkles when Jessica and Helen are together. They are what makes the film. (It doesn't hurt that the actresses playing them had been developing their roles for quite a while in a stage play version of the story.)Yes, there are scenes of Jessica and Helen kissing - but not to fear, ladies. These scenes are not about exploitation or titillation, they are as normal as watching a guy kiss a girl in any other film.(**POSSIBLE SPOILER**) The only real problem with the film is how conveniently everything is wrapped up at the end, but with a feel-good movie like this, well, who wouldn't want a happy ending? (**END SPOILER**)I would recommend this movie to anyone. I'm even thinking about buying it, and I'm very particular about which movies I actually want to own. And, guys, if you're looking for porn, DON'T rent this. Instead, go back to the little closed-off room in the back of the video store. Kissing Jessica Stein is not about sex, it's about romance and love. "},{"Title":"Come on people ?","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok I enjoyed this movie till the tripe and discustingly hollywood ending. An unsual movie spoilt by a simple overly simplistic ending. Good movie ,. shame that it chickened out in the end. please please please could someone actually have the balls to write about gay characters that dont come good in the end. Its almost as if this movie were saying its a bad thing to be gay. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe my expectations were too high. Maybe I needed to see it with a date. But Kissing Jessica Stein was not as good as I thought it would be.A nice Jewish girl is fed up with dating the guys her mother fixes her up with, and answers a personal ad from bisexual Helen. The plot develops their romantic and sexual relationship, but Jessica isn't ready to come out yet.There was one great scene in a NYC bar, in which two guys are trying to pick up the couple. Helen challenges the guys to answer why straight guys find lesbians so sexy. But as a romantic comedy, the rest of the movie is so-so. "}{"Title":"Very real","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most real romantic comedy I have seen, probably ever. I would like to point out that it's not just about lesbians, it's about relationships in general. Great movie that makes you think, which is almost a miracle these days. "},{"Title":"A really cute/sweet story","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was such a feel good movie. Any movie that I want to see more than once much less more than twice is a success in my book. Regardless if you are gay, straight, open-minded or conservative, the whole situation in this movie is presented in such a natural light that anyone seeing the movie will feel uplifted by the women's relationship and will find a piece of them selves at one point or another in the character's lives.It is highly recommended, too bad that the big guys out there didn't give it the full recognition that it so deserves, though, resulting in so many people missing the opportunity to see this great film.But go rent it while it is still available at your local Blockbuster! "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic comedy","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ack!  Where were WE when THIS movie came out??  This was an absolutely delightful romantic comedy starring two new actresses - Jennifer Westfeldt & Heather Juergensen (who co-wrote the movie, too) - both of whom are seeking meaningful relationships.  Heather, the more worldly and adventuresome Helen, because she's tired of the quickies, and Jennifer, the more prudish and conservative of the two, because she's having trouble finding the right guy.  Heather runs a seeking-woman ad, and Jessica responds...albeit in a timid, neurotic way.While I was a little disappointed in the ending, this was a laugh-out-loud movie that was just quirky enough.  (Frankly, my biggest disappointment was the back of the DVD said there was an alternative ending featured on the disc, but I could not find it.)  Oh sure, there'll be complaints of Jessica's stereotypical Jewish family and Helen's friends, the gay twosome, but their scenes were darn funny.  This movie, however, is about Jessica and Helen - and great chemistry.8.5 of 10 stars.  It's that good. "},{"Title":"A lighter look at crossing over","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A pleasant surprise to watch, and another testament to the beauty of lower-budget independent films.  It's in the 52 tall and under category of emotional roller coaster rides, but the writing is a treat and there's some subtle director's touches which make it a pleasure to dive into.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the movie fits the genre of Romantic Comedy but with *lesbians* the movie is really about relationships, the attraction, the passion, the love etc of a relationship.I found the movie to be funny, witty, intelligent although at times the acting was a bit ropey but IMHO that's adds to the realism of movie.I thoroughly enjoyed and was pleasantly surprised.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Kissing Jessica Stein is far more than just same-sex, Sex in the City.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  -POSSIBLE SPOILER-Kissing Jessica Stein is a story about relationships, the real world what comes after college and finding Mr. Right.  Jessica is an eligible and opinionated 20-something working in NYC; she has very high expectations for her men and is an aspiring artist on the side.  Josh is a mentally blocked aspiring novelist by night and Jessica's boss by day.  He and Jessica dated in college; now the two barely tolerate one another.  Jessica, upon reexamining her succession of blind dating disasters, answers a SWF advert in the newspaper personals.  Helen, her new found `friend' with raging hormones, has already worked her way through the male population and is ready for immediate female gratification.  Jessica on the other hand just wants to be a `little bit lesbian', check out the softer side of love and get her head sorted out.  As this happens, Jessica finally sees what's been right in front of her nose all the while.Kissing Jessica Stein is far more than just same-sex, Sex in the City. You don't have to be Jewish to enjoy this film, but the laughs come easier if you've got a `Jewish mother' or acceptable parental substitute.  The film offers a thought provoking story, good humor, dramatic moments and great acting by a talented cast.  The interplay between self image, creativity and interpersonal relationships is worth thinking about.Kissing Jessica Stein is a smart and cleverly delivered little independent film playing on 130+ screens nationwide.  The cast-mostly unfamiliar actors and nameless faces---are all superb.  Their anonymity allows the viewer to absorb the great characters they represent.  Jennifer Westfeldt and Tova Feldshuh, as the daughter and mother team respectively are better than any of Hollywood's $20 million ladies.  Westfeldt, a captivating screen presence with a short resume, is also the film's co-producer and writer.  Male lead Scott Cohen was a near regular on NYPD Blue and is the sole familiar face in the cast. "},{"Title":"Clever, fun and a very positive portrayal of gay characters","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not quite perfect because Hollywood still could not quite let the main character be gay. But still very positive, funny and clever.  My partner and I were laughing out loud and our straight conservative neighbors loved it as well. A great show for all genders and orientations. "},{"Title":"Funny but ragged","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) This is a cute, above-average flick, but by no means great. Frankly, without the indie-film pedigree, it wouldn't be as highly regarded as it is. Even on its own merits, it frequently veers way too close to Friends-type territory in terms of flightiness.The best parts of the movie, without doubt, are the scenes between Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) and Helen (Heather Juergensen). The interaction and dialogue between these two characters during each phase of their relationship has a genuine feeling, and is really the foundation of the film. This is not surprising as the two actresses portraying them wrote this script. Jessica's nutty-neurotic character is fun to watch as she conducts her wishy-washy search for the perfect mate. Helen is good as she goes from jaded thrill-seeker to committed partner. The actresses are obviously comfortable with their characters and with each other, and the dynamic between them rings true.The parts involving the Stein family, especially the mother, are also a pleasure. Mom Stein's reaction to finding out her daughter is bi is a bit surprising, but well-played and (thankfully) not cliched.Overall, there's plenty of humor and a level of urban-smart that makes it a fun experience.So much for the positives...The biggest problem with the film overall is the flimsiness of all the elements apart from the two main characters. As good a job as Westfeldt and Juergensen as writers do on their characters, they seem to have little regard for the rest of the characters and the settings, treating them all, to varying degrees, as window-dressing. This is to be expected with the anonymous wedding guests, blind dates, etc., but you hope for a little more from other characters.Jessica's married/pregnant coworker was a one-note bore. Helen's gay friends/coworkers, while having a couple of good jokes, ditto.The most glaring mishandling of a character was in the case of Jessica's boss/ex, Josh (Scott Cohen). The first half of the film sets this guy up to be Jessica's adversary, with the tension of their past relationship and closeness to her family weaved into it. He starts getting close to finding out Jessica's secret a couple of times, and with a few scenes devoted just to him and his subplot, it's apparent he's being set up to have a major role in the story. But suddenly, his whole arc goes absolutely nowhere. It seems that the writers lost interest in doing anything further with this character, and just kind of let him sputter through the second half of the film, making his earlier participation largely pointless. A better choice would have been to just edit the character out of the film altogether, or at least minimize his role severely.This leads to probably my biggest complaint whoever was responsible for the pacing of this film should be shot! The story unfolds normally in the first half of the film with Jessica starting to get involved in her new relationship. Then, for no real reason, there's a Three Months Later jump. Huh? The kicker is that the girls' relationship hasn't really progressed, with Jessica still going to pains to keep the whole thing under wraps and Helen getting resentful over it. While this is addressed, it really didn't warrant a fast-forward of three months.As if that first jump wasn't pointless enough they do it again, toward the end of the film. Again, nothing's gained by it, and in fact, it gives the whole story a rushed feel, like they just ran out of ideas and wanted to wrap things up as quickly as possible.On a final note, one thing that didn't help the overall, sitcom-ish feeling I got from this was the uncanny resemblance of some characters to well-known TV types. Throughout most of the film, Jessica reminded me a LOT of Rachel from Friends, in appearance (especially the hairstyle) and mannerisms. Josh, in appearance only, really brought to mind Larry from Three's Company; don't ask me why....To sum up, it's not a terrible film, and well worth checking out. But don't believe the hype on this being an astounding ground-breaker. Two-and-a-half out of four stars. "},{"Title":"Go see it","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Go see it.Really!Wait, what am I talking about?  Kissing Jessica Stein is a comedy (so they say), about a high-strung copy editor in New York, who can't seem to find the right guy to date.  The guys she does end up going out with are an interesting collection of not-quite-losers, and definitely not winners. It's enough to make a grown woman swear off men and turn to....someone else.Someone else just happens to be another woman - an assistant manager of a gallery, and who just happens to be bisexual.  The resulting plot complications are worth every minute of the movie.  I kept finding myself thinking this movie is what Woody Allen might've made if he started out in the '90's, not the '60's.  And I kept thinking, I *know* people like this!  So it's an interesting, even captivating flick - it may not seem all that accessible to a Midwestern audience, but that's a minor quibble.The stars of this (apparently indie) film include Jennifer Westfeldt as Jessica Stein (also co-wrote the movie), Heather Juergensen as Helen Cooper (Jessica's bi, out, and proud girlfriend), Tovah Feldshuh as Judy Stein (Jessica's Mom - an amazing performance), and Scott Cohen (I) as Josh Myers, Jessica's boss and former bf.Kissing Jessica Stein isn't perfect - there are some moments when I gnashed my teeth over biphobia exhibited by some characters, but these imperfections make it more, not less, believable.  The pacing could've been a bit better, and it ends on a questioning note, but for all of this, I liked Kissing Jessica Stein a lot.  It won't replace Chasing Amy on my video shelf, but it'll probably end up next to it.  "},{"Title":"Very funny, but more than that.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are deep and serious films that cause you to reflect for days, there are throwaways that are well done comedy or action films, but this film strikes a very happy medium.  Most of the time the audience is laughing, some of the time the situations took a very serious turn, all of the time it was worth watching.  I couldn't decide, 7 or 8, but this is so much better than many other films, it deserves the higher.There is a very clever team at work here, and the near neurotic lead is wonderful to watch.  Some situations, some characters are just too type cast, but they all fit as they should, nothing is unbelievable (except the whole situation the characters are in, I mean, what copy editor lives like that?).I recommend it for a change of pace. "}{"Title":"Very funny, but more than that.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are deep and serious films that cause you to reflect for days, there are throwaways that are well done comedy or action films, but this film strikes a very happy medium.  Most of the time the audience is laughing, some of the time the situations took a very serious turn, all of the time it was worth watching.  I couldn't decide, 7 or 8, but this is so much better than many other films, it deserves the higher.There is a very clever team at work here, and the near neurotic lead is wonderful to watch.  Some situations, some characters are just too type cast, but they all fit as they should, nothing is unbelievable (except the whole situation the characters are in, I mean, what copy editor lives like that?).I recommend it for a change of pace. "},{"Title":"Light, sweet, definitely worth it","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't recall where and when it was that I saw the trailer for Kissing Jessica Stein, but I wanted to see it right away.  Must have been Lincoln Center theaters.  Well, usually if I am intrigued and enticed by the trailer, the movie turns out to be a dud.  NOT in this instance.  I loved it.  Basically you know the plot beforehand. A single woman, tired of less than perfect dates and being single, decides to answer a personal ad for women seeking women.  Ironically enough, the one who placed the ad, did so for pure experiment of the sexual kind.  However, both women develop feelings for each other and get into a relationship. Many things happen along the way that I won't discuss so not to spoil the best parts.  What I liked most about the movie was that it was a story about a relationship, not lesbianism specifically.  I have nothing against gay rights movement or this theme in the movies.  It's just that I wanted to see a regualar film thats all.  The relationship was tender and fragile, volatile and unexpected, things that straight couples deal with all the time.  The angle of this relationship being between two women one of which is from a jewish family is carefully written and executed.  May be I am wrong but I was glad that there were no deep philosophical discussions about gay population, that there were no sugar sweet/heart tugging/hand me a tissue type of moments.  (well there were a couple, but in a good way).  I liked the way it was shot, liked the ending, I liked the way the film switched from one person's view to the other.  Overall, great movie! "},{"Title":"Straight, With a Twist","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The building blocks of this romantic comedy will be familiar to any movie-goer, but KJS comes at it from a not quite lesbian angle that makes it all feel fresh. It's fairly low budget, but the performances are uniformly brilliant, right across the board, and there are some nice atmospheric shots of New York. It's very naturalistic, non-exploitative and warm. Highly recommended for a date night, whatever your orientation. "},{"Title":"Terrific sensitive film","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful little film. It could easily have drifted into American Pie sophomoric sex humor, or gone soft and sentimental, but instead it plays absolute real. Jessica is a nice Jewish girl from Scarsdale who's fed up with the men she's met, and becomes bi-curious. She hooks up with a more free-spirited art gallery operator, and their courtship and the complications are great. Tovah Feldshuh is outstanding as Jessica's mom. "},{"Title":"Chasing Jessica Stein","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent independent comedy about finding love and happiness in the very frustrating world of being single and dating. This film is much like Chasing Amy and explores bi and homo sexuality, specifically lesbianism. The actors are great (although unknown) and the lead character who plays Jessica Stein is very beautiful. This can be a great date film, but you can see it with your same sex friend as well without any stares from the crowd. The film does require a bit of intelligence to understand though because it's not some cheaply made film trash.Mr.Uxo's Take 8/10 Stars, a highly satisfying comedy about dating that we all can relate to. "},{"Title":"I'll take my Manhattan with a twist","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best date movie of the year? Depends on who you are dating I guess.   Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) is having a hard time finding a suitable mate. She is alternately portrayed as being terribly unlucky and picky; however, her choices are portrayed as running from the slimy refugee from Margaritaville to the obsessive-compulsive bean counter from hell.Beautifully written, wonderfully acted, this quirky New York comedy stands out from the rest of the competition in its refreshing take on lifestyle alternatives. It clearly avoids the seamier side of bi-sexuality, choosing instead an innocent encounter that becomes a broadening experience. If your date giggles at this idea, they are not a match for you.Not that there aren't and chuckles to be had. The writing is inspired and lines are delivered as intended. No mean trick since the writers and main performers are one in the same.I confess I expected a real bashing when I agreed to see this one, but came away unscathed. And on the contrary, was entertained and challenged.Jessica was a bit more neurotic than I would have preferred but her mate Helen (Heather Juergensen) was right on target. And if there's an award nomination for characters, I would give it to Jessica's mom Judy (Tovah Feldshuth) for her heartfelt portrayal of an overbearing yet sensitive mom coming around to understanding what's best for her only daughter.Though there are few out there dissing Jessica Stein, my vote is with more films willing to take bisexuality into the mainstream audience without overt provocation invoking the sleaze factor. This one will line up along the great New York movies including Manhattan, Kramer vs. Kramer and After Hours.  "},{"Title":"Poor ending spoils funny comedy","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of the elements of Kissing Jessica Stein are clichés. The neurotic Jewish woman, the hip downtown woman, the Jewish mother, the New York setting (of the unrealistic Friends variety--hellooo, 28 year old copy editors do not have duplex apartments on the Upper West Side with kitchens large enough to fit a washer/dryer). But the film KNOWS these are clichés, and instead of avoiding them, it works with them and makes fun of the stereotypes it uses. Sometimes, it even shows surprising depth, especially Tovah Feldshuh as Jessica's mother. The dialogue is sharp and funny, and Westfeldt and Juergensen clearly spent a lot of time fleshing out their characters. The problems occur at the end. This seems to be a problem of sexual-identity movies Now that we've gotten the characters over the hump, how do we wrap it up? (See Chasing Amy for another good example). The writers seem to feel that there's a choice between a sappy Hollywood ending or a sad one, and instead, fudge it. The result is unsatisfying and comes off as `oh god, of _course_' (difficulties/characters appearing earlier in movie reappear to wrap it up--with no explanation of how a problem that seemed to be solved, really wasn't). One of these days I'd like to see a movie that entertains the idea that we simply fall in love with _people_--and our hangups are simply about externals. Kissing Jessica Stein starts down that road, but ultimately, gives in to the idea that our sexual identity defines us, rather than the other way around.  "},{"Title":"Best new movie of 2002 to date...no kidding!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was well written, well acted and beautifully directed.  I was hooked on the characters from the start and could identify with their trials and tribulations on dating and finding `Mr. Right.  In this case, as the trailer so aptly purposes, sometimes Mister Right could be Miss Right. The humor was verify sophisticated and the subject matter not taken lightly or glossed over.  The relationships portrayed and explored were enticing, intimate, neurotic, chaotic and comfortable - everything that makes up a normal relationship.  I highly recommend this movie for women and men alike. It is not a chick flick of a date movie-it is a great little movie on life and dating for everyone.   "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first time in a really long time, I saw a romantic comedy in which I could not predict the ending until, well, the very end.  Even at one point when I thought it was going to end, there were still more plot twists.  As a big fan of the romantic comedy genre, this concept thrills me to no end.In the film, Jessica Stein, a neurotic Jewish New Yorker is sick of dating loser men, and come to think of it, lacks true female friends as well.  So one day, her interest is piqued by a quote included in a women seeking women personal ad.  She then meets Helen Cooper, and embarks on a journey she's not entirely sure she wants to take.  Her mother, played by Tovah Feldshuh (who else could portray the sympathetic Jewish mother), though, knows all along that it's a necessary journey for her daughter to figure out how to include love in her life.Also joining her are Josh, her boss and ex boyfriend (played Gilmore Girls' Scott Cohen) who still has a crush on her, her younger brother Danny, whose impending marriage does nothing to help Jessica's view on her failed love life, and her very pregnant friend whose lifestyle serves as the complete opposite of Jessica's newfound freedom.The ending is the best part - it allows us to understand what Jessica's relationships, not only with other people, but with herself, are all about. It allows us to see in Jessica what her mother has known all along.  By the end of the film, we realize what Jessica has finally realized - she was so busy trying to find the perfect guy, she forgot to include much needed friends and family into the mix.Rather than preaching to the choir about the advantages of lesbianism or trying too hard to be politically correct or religiously correct or any kind of correct, Stein really gets to the heart of human relationships.  The film examines that line between friendship and romantic love, and the importance of friendship.  Plus, its hilarious, packed with one liners like sexy-ugly and marinate, (trust me - just see the movie) and little tributes to its predecessors, like When Harry Met Sally and Annie Hall.By the end of the film, you realize that in fact, the film is not about sexual identity or preference at all.  It's about being true to yourself, and learning to have faith in love and friendship. "},{"Title":"Witty Dialog, great humor","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This delightful movie had me laughing long after leaving the theater. The script was vigorous and the musical selections were a joy. I found the camera work to be quite interesting, especially in the part where the two woman were arguing on the street about wedding invitations. The camera moved from one to the other with varying speeds that were in sync with the intensity of their emotions and expressions. This increased my empathetic response to the scene. "}{"Title":"When it comes to love sometimes she can't think straight","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie, sometimes you see movies that you love but you know aren't really GOOD...not this one, I thought it was good too.  it was funny and didn't shove the gay factor into your face but treated it with respect and with a normal perspective. The way the movie was shot was fairly interesting with different fades between the scenes, there wasn't continuity throughout but this seemed to almost make it gel...it wasn't like there was a small piece of something different, it was all shot different. Oy...that makes no sense, sorry.  One thing I would have changed is the fact that twice it jumped to 3 months later...i would have liked to have seen what happened during those three months because they were intregal months...respectively the coming into a relatinship and then the disolving of the relationship...I needed to see how they got together and broke up. All in all, for a romantic comedy it was excellent...and that's hard to say these days.  From an artistic perspective the storyline was interesting, the acting fairly well done, but the cinematography was not experimental...still quite an enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"A VERY PLEASANT SURPRISE","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this preview, not knowing what to expect.  I saw a film that has to do with a lesbien love.  It was done with good taste, and with a lot of humor thrown into the story.  The cast in the film did an excellent job and I would recommend it to anyone who wanted an hour and a half of good story, good acting and a lot of laughs. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a delight funny and touching and wise. The situations are well-conceived, the cast is very good indeed (even the usually over-the-top Felshuh turns in a fine performance here); there isn't a cliche in sight and the characters are all original and very human. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Oy Vey! (In a good way!)","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kissing Jessica Stein is cute, feisty and brimming with the innocent-naughtiness of a frolicking pup. Jessica Stein (played by writer Jennifer Westfeldt) is a big-screen Ally McBeal; a neurotic, semi-successful, twenty-something professional fed up with the men she is dating. Inspired by a touching personal ad, Jessica trifles in a seemingly innocent affair with Helen Cooper (played by co-writer Heather Juergensen). Before long, Stein's secret flight-of-fancy grows into a genuine relationship which slowly but surely becomes known to Stein's conservative circle of family and friends, including Stein's quietly-longing boss. Stein's dissonance and apprehension over her newly-emerging identity steadily grows and creates strain in her relationship with Cooper. The conclusion of this unconventional love-triangle is sober and honest, uplifting but by no means sappy. Tovah Feldshuh deserves special mention as Jessica's wonderfully comic, devoted, stereotypically-Jewish mother. While not the most compelling, action-packed or intellectually-challenging film, KJS is fun, clever and thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film and I highly recommend it!  The film made me laugh a lot! The plot was great and I really liked the fact that the film helped portray the fact that sexual orientation can be a big gray zone with not everybody being simply 100 percent straight or 100 percent gay.  In the end it all comes out in the wash and a person I guess has to follow ones heart!  I used to live in the New York area so I welcomed all the New York scenes that were shown in the film.  Furthermore the soundtrack was really diverse and interesting also! "},{"Title":"Yikes - I had to give this a 10","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't hand out 10's easily.  It's rare for me to really enjoy a movie. There are so many other prior reviews of this movie on IMDB that express my sentiments, so I'll just justify to myself why I gave it a 10- great script - clever and with a fresh perspective - well developed characters - made me laugh - so believable - don't we all remember how there could be one thing that absolutely would turn us off to any date.  It could be such a stupid thing but it mattered.  Among others, for Jessica, it was the inability to use words appropriately.  So simple - but for her, it was a killer issue - well acted - made me care for the characters - not completely predictable (admittedly it was a little)Anyway - it had everything I love in a movie.Go see it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"A Work Of Art - Except For The Ending","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are lots of reviews of this movie available for your reading but I thought I'd share with you an analogy I have for it...It's like your painting the Mona Lisa... Lots of painstaking detail is going into it.  The painting is coming along better than you could have possibly imagined...   Everyone who looks at it LOVES it and knows that it's destined to be a time surviving favorite.  It's just about a perfect piece of art....Then -- when all seems finished, the crowd gathers around you, waiting for you to sign your name to it.  It seems to the crowd like a perfect place to end!  There's nothing wrong.  The crowd is happy!  They enjoyed your work. They are getting anxious to leave and tell everyone what a WONDERFUL painting you made!With a smile on their face, you decide just one more dab will do it.  So, you PAINT A COWBOY HAT ON THE MONA LISA!   Then you sign your name to it and call it a day.   The crowd's jaw drops.  They stare at you in bewilderment. Not sure if they should still like it -- even though they just spent the last few hours LOVING it.   The feelings that the crowd has have begun to evaporate.The art lovers leave your studio still a little woozy from the ending.  As a little time goes on they start to get mad.  Real mad!  How could you do this to a masterpiece!  Is there a way to undo it they ask? Nope.It's just a modern day tragedy...  This movie is fantastic for 98% of it! I mean funny, smart and sensual.  It's great!  Then -- at the end -- there is a world class about-face that is equivalent to getting a bucket of ice poured on your head.You leave the theater wishing that there was an undo button like there is on a PC.  You think about it a lot.  The movie doesn't leave your head. You spend time thinking about the whole movie -- but then you get angry all over again because of its ending.My recommendation -- if this is even possible -- See the movie -- it's Awesome.  Think about leaving 10 minutes before the end.  You'll be happy you did.  "},{"Title":"A Breathe of Fresh Air","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is easily one of the best romantic comedies that I've ever seen.  It's realistic in people's manerisms, in people's desires and in people's reactions.  It is perfectly acted by a phenominal cast rounded off the none other than the two writers (truely showing that they are not one-trick ponies, but true artists).  It is laugh-out-loud funny (I found myself thinking, wow, that's really funny, without even realizing that I was hysterically laughing) while always staying very intellegent.  It's smart in both story and dialogue.  You're drawn in to truely care about each character, and at the end, you're satisfied with every character.  If Bridget Jones' Diary can get on oscar nom, there's no reason that this wonderful piece of cinema can't.  I give it a ten and encourage everyone and anyone to run to see this movie. "},{"Title":"A story about finding yourself . . .","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot device of lesbianism is used to help shed light on the journey a young woman takes as she seeks to find herself.  Jessica Stein has a history of dating the wrong men, but in reality her problem is in getting in touch with herself.  Too many films have high handedly treated the quest to find your inner self, obscuring the goal rather than revealing it as they place layer upon layer of symbolism on top of the simple motives that lead all of us on that quest.  Kissing Jessica Stein avoids that, showing Jessica as she struggles to evolve and mature, putting the warts and worries on display front and center.The leads did have the huge advantage of having written the screenplay (and were thus able to avoid having an egotistical director or producer destroy it by trying to make it their own) and knew how to avoid the over acting and substitution of skin for plot that afflicts so many of today's indie films.  Even so, no matter how great their advantage, the achievement still stands.They wrote a good, solid screenplay, they made a great movie.  And they made it fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Suprise","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie knowing next to nothing about it and came out feeling like I had finally found a movie that is worth the ticket price. Laugh out loud funny, sweet, honest, touching, this movie covers all the bases. A full, well-rounded production where there are no stereotypical characters, just real people trying to understand their lives. Take your girlfriend/boyfriend/partner, your mom/dad, your best friend or see it alone, but by all means see this movie. "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie and the actors were great!!!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally moved by this wonderful love story....it is so true to life and excellently cast. I think everyone will find this a very enjoyable film regardless of the story line of two girls falling in love.  I found myself wanting them to make it and stay together regardless of everything that was happening.....I can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!! Very original twist on romantic comedy","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a brilliant, original twist on the romantic comedy! It was so funny  and clever and the performances by the two stars (Juergensen and Westfeldt) were fantastic. They are both smart, hot babes (like Tiny Fey from Saturday Night Live). I laughed out loud at least a dozen times during this one. A rare feat considering what Hollywood puts out these days. The movie was clever and witty and the shots of New York made the city look more romantic and alive than ever. I can't wait to see what the Juergensen & Westfeldt) do "},{"Title":"like Woody Allen used to be","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i.e., funny. This movie is a city-dating-comedy that manages to be hilarious, feel real and avoid cliche. Usually, I would say that city dating comedy is the kiss of death, but Jessica Stein's somewhat far-fetched premise has oddly freed the movie from the usual obnoxiousness. Everyone in the theater was laughing, when I saw this film, but laughing at different parts. There's a wealth to choose from... depends on which piece of humor digs its claws into you.Also, Heather Juergensen has a fascinating face. See this movie!!  "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies in years","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!  I went to see it with my girlfriend and we were laughing our asses off the entire time.  The two girls who wrote and starred in this film have raised the bar and hopefully reminded Hollywood what a FUNNY movie should look like.  I also read they made this film for under $2 million, which is pretty incredible, because you would never know that by watching it.  It's a funny, smart, and very romantic film whether you are gay or straight. "},{"Title":"KJS is outstanding!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for inspiration - to write that novel, buy that lobster boat, whatever - look no further than the women behind Kissing Jessica Stein.  Heather Juergensen and Jennifer Westfeldt built a brilliant film with their bare hands, writing the script, raising the money and, oh by the way, turning in two remarkable  performances.  At a time when good roles for women are so scarce that even punchlines are being nominated for Academy Awards, these two women have established themselves as serious filmmakers and first-rate actors.   "},{"Title":"perfect date movie","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I laughed, I cried, I marinated...You will love this movie. The characters are funny, witty and charming. I should find souls this interesting to hang around with myself.This is an intelligent film, it is a moving film and it is an entertaining film. You will care about these people and you will think about them long after you leave the theater.I hope throngs of people see this, so more film makers will hear what a lot of us are hungry for in films. Interesting people living in interesting times doing interesting things. You know, most of all, I really loved the time traveling car chase through the spinning matrix wheels of plasma.   "},{"Title":"A sheer delight!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully acted, crisply written, very sweet funny film. I had more fun watching this movie than any movie in a long time. I certainly wasn't looking at my watch like I did during Lord of the Rings.There were some oddly out-of-focus shots, just like there were in Swingers, perhaps betraying a low budget, and they use the cliche of showing her on a successive series of blind dates - but who cares?!  The rest of the movie is so damned good that these minor transgressions are immediately forgiven. It was also shot kind of TV-like, with too may excessive closeups, but this again may be because of a low budget.  The shots that work the best are the ones where the director stays in a two-shot, allowing the natural comedic rhythm to breath - as it often does with the talented cast.These actress/writers who star in it are utterly charming.  The entire cast is wonderful and the material fits them all like a glove. Intelligently written without being overly clever or pretentious.  It manages to be sharp and biting while warm and fuzzy at the same time.Finally, an indie film that lives up to its possibilities - I can't wait to see the next movie they do!I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Well-acted, Worth Watching","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although some people may feel that this is a women's movie, it's worth watching by anyone. It has a great script and some good acting - by the two lead women players, Stephen Cohen and Tovah Feldshuh (whom one might recall from her occasional appearances as defence lawyer in 'Law and Order'). The film is not overdramatic and it is funny without losing the plot. You have to be paying attention to the lines, though.Jennifer Westfeldt, who plays Jessica Stein, may remind you of Lisa Kudrow a little but, as an actress, she's a more skilled version. Her observation on the different shades of 'wittiness' in men is interesting.It's one of those few films that may have actually benefitted from the absence of big names in the cast. "},{"Title":"Kissing Jessica Stein a four star hit","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw KISSING JESSICA STEIN and it is a great movie, the best comedy to come out this season.  It's four stars all the way.  All my friends have loved it, and I recommend it highly.  And not just me it's received glowing reviews in The LA Times, Rolling Stone, Wall Street Journal, Newsweek, People, Boston Globe, the San Francisco Chronicle, Variety, Hollywood Reporter, Vogue, Us Weekly, NY Post, NY Daily News, New York Newsday, Toronto National Post, Chicago Tribune, Ebert and Roeper, NPR, Leonard Maltin in Playboy andToronto Sun, to name just a few.  "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful and funny movie about an uptight New York woman who tentatively takes a step towards satisfying her bi-curiosity.  But the true charm of this movie is the dialogue and characters.  They're well-drawn, believable, and memorable.  Plus everything is done with a light touch that keeps you laughing at just how humorous humans can be. Recommended. "}{"Title":"A little Woody,a little Rob Reiner...but with a twist.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very entertaining treatment of much discussed subject. If you're REALLY homophobic, you might want to stay away. Otherwise, this film deals with a straight girl in NYC, who's had it with the dating scene. She decides to give in to her curiosity about alternatives, with  very funny and realistic results. A really nice first effort from this team of writer/actors. The supporting cast is excellent also. The lesbian scenes are treated for viewing by a pretty mass audience.   "},{"Title":"Sex and the Reluctant Jessica... how delicious!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Curiosity kills the cat? Perhaps! Satisfaction brings it back? Maybe! A straight gal&#133;taking off from conventional love? Interesting! But don't expect to see a freak show! This movie is a fabulously witty spin on the `Lipschtick' play. Yep, this character-driven flick is wonderfully batty! And it's not created with the frills and fancies of modern day technological ho-hums to make it interesting. Jennifer Wesfeldt is a phenomenally convincing actor.  As the neurotic, yet loveable copy-editor of a publishing house, Westfelt's Jessica keeps the scenes moving at a wonderful and engaging pace. A Jewish lassie &#150; pretty, intelligent, and with a promising career &#150; eager to date any Dick, Tom, and Harry, in the hope of finding a steady?  Just examine her dates, and can anyone blame her for finding the persevering Helen enduring! Of course not! Heather Juergensen's bi-sexual Helen is credibly awesome. The two lead actors, who also wrote the script, certainly present the viewers with much food for thought.  Will viewers feel at odds with Jessica's change of sexual lifestyle?  No answers, please&#133; at least, not until you've seen this flick! It may be simply a case of `familiarity breeds contempt,' or just amount to literally `absence makes the heart grow fonder!' But everything about this comedy is indeed refreshing. Wesfeldt and Juergensen carry their roles well&#133; their on-screen chemistry is amazing! The overall supporting cast members are also commendable. Tovah Feldshuh's Judy is definitely a scream! It'd be difficult not to like this movie! Definitely an aesthetically brilliant story with profound themes of insecurity, prejudice, and relationship! Bold, savvy, sharp&#133; and emotional as well!  It certainly provokes one's imagination, hesitation, and acceptability. The dialogue is precious, adding energy to great performances. The scenes for the wedding occasion are especially hilarious to watch, offering an excellent chronological study of the human mental processes&#133; yep, of all present at that party! Wonderfully dramatic and sublimely funny at the same time! The progress of romantic relationship between Jessica and Helen is directed with stylish grace, allowing even the most conservative viewer to come to terms with the two women's unique situation. This is one smart comedy where the actions and dialogue flow and merge beautifully.  It's love without lust; it's humor without dirt!  And the abrupt ending has its definite twist, sans absurdity.Sure, I would have loved the film to explore more into Jessica's talent as an artist, or even see Scott Cohen's Josh portrayed as a more aggressive rival to Helen, but there's ample in this movie to keep up the appeal. Go see it&#133; it's filled with delicious fun!    "},{"Title":"a perfect situation comedy","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this perfect situation comedy is notable for it's wonderful script and  great direction. happily not a movie about lesbians, but about relationships, their ups & downs. performances are notably terrific and terribly appealing. so few movies are as perfectly comedic as this one. comedy builds as jessica's search for an ideal mate and a perfect relationship goes on. timing is perfect and the characters and situations are believeable and fantastically funny. nothing around can match this movie for its charm and good humor. a good script and an equally good director are in short supply. 90 odd minutes are great fun and time well spent.   "},{"Title":"Leave your hang-ups at the door and go check out this great comedy in the theater.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   In what could be the sleeper hit of the season, Kissing Jessica Stein delivers a fresh look at same-sex romance that could actually break into the mainstream market. Normally sequestered to art house theatres, gay-themed movies are often hard for the majority of the straight market to identify with. The interesting twist to this one is that the story revolves around a character who is straight, but just not sure what she's into after a long string of worthless dates with dorky guys. Her relationship with another woman seems easy to identify with because of the questions raised about relationships and seems like a good move given the choices.  Writer/actress Jennifer Westfeldt does a fantastic job as Jessica Stein. Based on her play, the screen adaptation is obviously successful and the casting is great. Newcomer Heather Juergensen is also great as Helen, Stein's love interest. One of the most interesting characters is Stein's mother Judy (Tovah Feldshuh), who bucks the stereotype of the Jewish mother and has one of the most touching scenes in the film.  Westfeldt's comic wit and sharp writing style make you realize how nice it is to have a comedy without all of the gross-out humor. All of the comedy relies purely on the delivery of the lines and the dialogue. It seems Hollywood has recently replaced that art with sight gags and foul one-liners.  This is definitely one to check out in the theater. It's one of the best films of the year so far and will probably do pretty well in art houses and hopefully beyond. If you have any hang-ups about same sex relationships, leave them at the door and just enjoy the movie. It will not alienate anyone and is not graphic in any sexual way. It's a lighthearted romantic comedy that has something to say without beating you over the head with it.  "},{"Title":"Joy and Moxie make a great match!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This delightful film brings us a return of the fun New York Love Story film. In the 70's we had a rash of these that provided delightful, insightful, and comedic jaunts into people's private affairs. Jennifer and Heather have done an excellent job of writing; they have crafted, on screen, all the girl emotions and resolutions they can imagine to this point in their lives.Witty, well-acted and very well cast, this film is a sure bet for a good time at the flicks.  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught a screening of Kissing Jessica Stein on January 31st in Washington D.C.  >  We are introduced to Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) as a copy editor for a newspaper who has trouble developing relationships with men.  She tries speed dating, in which one of these scenes involves a guy who insists on splitting the check, instead of him paying for it, and some other guys that are simply out of her league.  So, she decides to look in the personal ads.  All of a sudden, she has a life. Jessica is trying to figure out who she really is.  She looks in the women seeking women section.  Jessica meets Helen (Heather Juergensen) who works at a art museum and already knows what she wants.  So, these two women decide to see if there are any sparks and Jessica decides not to tell any of her peers.  However, Jessica is all of a sudden happy at work and everyone suspects she is seeing a guy. I was very surprised how funny and entertaining this movie actually is. The cast works really well together, and the screen time is very balanced for the main characters.  It is about 90 minutes long.  Go see this movie, it didn't win two awards at the L.A. Film Festival for nothing.  8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Coolest Movie!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is like the coolest movie.  There are so many people who tetter totter on this subject and are a bit confused and this is a funny way to figure out what side of the fence you belong on.  It's a gotta see flick!~Tae "},{"Title":"Funny, touching, and witty","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein was a wonderful movie.  Although it is fairly obvious that the script comes from theatrical roots, it has transformed quite well into a film.The story is funny and touching, and seems to capture the difficulties of modern relationships in big cities in the Western world.The writing is sharp and very funny.  Many of the supporting characters are very theatrical and larger than life, but the main characters played by Jennifer Westfeldt, Heather Jurgensen, and Scott Cohen were very approachable and loveable.  The acting was superb.  "},{"Title":"So Sweet, A Little Awkward, But So Wonderful-- Like a First Kiss Should Be","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is four years old, as I'm writing this-- but while watching the movie, I suddenly recalled a review of it (in a newspaper, not on the IMDb) where the reviewer openly wondered how ANYone would want to kiss Jessica Stein, as she's annoying, shallow, babbles incessantly, and has zero confidence in any aspect of her life.I read this four years ago, so that's a bit of a paraphrase, but what I loved about this movie was how the scenes of Jessica being neurotic walk RIGHT up to the line of cartoonish, but unlike many sitcoms, these scenes never quite step over. It's a fine line, and almost made me turn against the movie a few times, but the key word is almost-- the awkwardness isn't cartoony, but becomes real, as Jessica's character really was raised in a conservative religious household, and though she realizes she is open, she just isn't so sure how to react to what is an entirely new world, for her.There were some incredibly touching scenes in the movie, and I really marveled at the direction, from the obvious emotional scenes, to even a subtle little camera bump when Jessica and Helen first meet. If the late-in-the-film conversation between Jessica and her mother doesn't get to you, you've got a heart made of stone.Ultimately sweet and endearing moving, a romantic comedy that doesn't rely on the cute, but rather, what is real... knowing that it was a play first may help, as plays are rarely cute, and get to the heart more than just some lame Jennifer Aniston comedy. Definitely a chick flick, so I recommend it to the people who love those... and not in the typical they get together, the end cliché. It delves deeper, and touches on something we can all identify with. 10/10.Kudos to everyone involved, though a sharp reprimand to the director for taking the Legally Blonde 2 payday. He's more talented than that, isn't he? "},{"Title":"My favorite scene in Kissing Jessica Stein","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie a lot. It was very witty, charming and fun. There is one part of the movie that really stands out for me and every time I think about it, it makes me quietly laugh to myself. The scene is only available as an out take. It's called The Boat Scene, and in it, Jessica Stein is in a canoe with a man she is no longer interested in dating. This man is mentioned in an earlier scene. The two of them are in a canoe and he tells her that he feels they are perfect for one another. She then has a 2 minute dialogue about who she is and why she and he are not compatible at all. It is actually my favorite scene from any movie, and I've scene a lot of movies. Again, great movie, great scene....too bad the two girls didn't end up together in the end. "}{"Title":"Possible Spoilers","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  KJS was directed by Charles Herman-Wurmfeld, but written by Heather Juergensen & Jennifer Westfeldt, who star in the film as New Yorkers Jessica Stein & Helen Cooper. Despite the lesbianism there is little T&A- the leads are rather frumpy, but not unattractive, women. The story is every lesbian's fantasy- seducing a clueless straight girl fed up with the male sex. This banal premise goes nowhere. Jessica's hetero-frustration is portrayed in a montage of bad dates that could only occur in films, so right away emotional realism is tossed, & sets the film up for a failure to connect on anything but a superficial level. Helen is a bisexual fed up with men's shallowness & places 1 of those 'bi-curious' personal ads. Jessica reads it, is intrigued by a quote from Rilke (she is a copy editor & bookworm), & answers. Even though the ad claims to seek 'friendship or more' any person over the age of 20 (especially a copy editor) would know this is adspeak for a lesbian relationship. The 30+ Jessica is clueless, & spends the whole film never even attempting to get with it. That Jessica, as portrayed before meeting Helen, could ever be attracted to such a duplicitous & shallow sort as Helen- even if a man- undercuts the whole point of her dates-from-hell montage. Also, it's supposed to be funny that she approaches her 1st lesbian experience with a slew of 'how to' books. Yes, this is a comedy, but it's not too much to ask the characters & writing to show some maturity & developmental stability.That Jessica abandons heterosexuality so quickly & Helen becomes more than just an 'experiment' is the film's biggest weakness. Were it a comedy on 'experimentation' it would have worked far better for the character's shallow turns to & from each other would be explicable. Another problem is Jessica's stereotypical domineering Jewish mom Judy (Tovah Feldshuh), whose supposed 'emotional growth' scene- her suddenly encouraging her daughter's lesbianism with Helen, even though she thinks it's detrimental to her daughter, rings false. The scene is as squeamish & leaden as all the film's scenes of 'growth'.&, of course, there is a male love interest for Jessica- Josh (Scott Cohen)- her boss & ex-lover, who we know she will end the film being with. The fact that the audience knows from the 1st scenes the 2 share together that they are obviously 'meant for each other' in the most filmic sense, & they end up together, has not been pointed out as a major flaw in this overly-praised film. After all, are not great films those that do not necessarily have Act 1's gun go off by Act 3?While I am certainly no fan of T.S. Eliot's critical skills this film is a textbook example of a script failing the Objective Correlative. The OC was a term coined by TSE in a 1919 essay Hamlet and his Problems. He claimed the play had failed to show Hamlet's actions as logical or emotional extensions of his predicament.'The only way of expressing emotion in the form of art is by finding an objective correlative; in other words, a set of objects, a situation, a chain of events which shall be the formula of that particular emotion; such that when the external facts, which must terminate in sensory experience, are given, the emotion is evoked.'In short, characters should act in ways consistent with their situations & emotions should be revealed consistent with what their established temperaments would allow, otherwise they do not have a claim to reality- or objectivity. This does not prohibit satire nor farce, but sets the boundaries for a kind of realism- even in comedy.The basic problem with the OC was that of its very subjectivity. De facto, TSE was stating that he was the arbiter of emotional consistency. It also placed too high a précis on the conscious level of symbolism. Still, there are times when it can be a useful tool. In KJS, part of the film's failure (relatively- for it is basically a cute, occasionally funny, but weightless film) is that Jessica's lesbianism is just a plot device- it doesn't remotely come from anything we've seen in the character prior to her lesbian embarkation. It feels very much as if the 2 writers simply said, Hey, let's write a tale about a straight girl who goes lesbian chic. We'll show that men are worthless, lesbians are screwed up, & that all real women need men, after all, in the end. It's a bit puzzling to me why radical Feminists & lesbian activists did not howl a bit more about this film. Perhaps they recognized it as a fluff lesbian fantasy film?Regardless, the movie is not rip-roaringly funny, smartly written, nor well-acted, enough to overcome this basic narrative dishonesty & OC failing.  "},{"Title":"Shallow characterizations","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... really harm would could be a charming and revealing movie. The writer can't seem to get beyond stereotypes in shaping their characters. You name it, they are here, with the Jewish stereotypes bordering on offensive. Do we really need another overbearing Jewish mother? Another collection of male dating losers (funny as they are)? Ex-stereotypes, I'd have given this movie a 7. Without them it is a weak 4. "},{"Title":"A joy to behold","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film from beginning to end. It suffers none of the self-centered blathering that seems to take over films that star the writers. It is clever and beautifully written, cleverly shot and filled with delicious sub-text. The comedy is light, but the people are not. Just enough frantic steadicam, just enough sex, just enough slapstick, just enough deeper moments (Tovah Feldshuh pulls off an emotional triumph with the simple line She's a very nice girl) and just enough wordplay to do what it should do make us fall in love with these characters and cheer them to win, regardless of which gender they eventually settle on. Please please please make more films like this! "},{"Title":"More mainstream than I expected","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS HEREIN! YOU ARE WARNED!This seemed like the perfect video movie for me, as I wanted to avoid the indie hype that a lot of movies like this seem to generate. I definitely like independent movies, especially romances, as they tend to eschew many of the mainstream conventions Hollywood can't get away from.I saw this movie with my girlfriend and her friend, and they both were very happy with it, from the standpoint that they felt that it wasn't stereotypical regarding gender and relationship. This I agree with, but many of the issues I had with the film weren't even on this level.First of all, the good points. The movie is entertaining, if only in the sense that the writers keep it moving. Even some of the more predictable parts (and I saw a lot of what happened at the end coming from a mile away) don't linger. The performances of Westfeldt and Juergenson were good, and I was surprised to look at their bios and see that they both aren't long suffering actresses who haven't gotten their big breaks.But the problems I had were many...The biggest problem I had was with the feel of the movie. It had that fantasy New York feel that a lot of movies can't avoid. Even the way the movie was shot left many scenes where Westfeldt was glowing or radiating. The jobs the characters had and the social situations they were in didn't have any sense of reality. Jessica and Helen could have easily slipped into a Friends episode and you wouldn't have been surprised.Many of the background characters were also problematic. Jessica's family was so stereotypically Jewish it was ridiculous. I recognize that stereotypes stem from truth, and a movie can make stereotypes work while keeping this in mind. But there didn't seem to be any balance between the stereotype and the reality. Jessica's mother, in particular, was absurd. Beyond this, the other background characters didn't seem fleshed out; they just seemed to exist for the convenience of the plot.The portrayal of men. I wouldn't call this movie a man-hating movie by any means. But I also can't blame Jessica and Helen for trying lesbianism, based on the men that seemed to exist in their world. Early in the film, there's a dating montage, where we see all the jerks Jessica has to deal with. This was done in the movie Happy Accidents to much better effect. I don't think that the screenplay was written anti-man, but it does seem to indicate that there are no options out there.But the biggest problem I had with the movie was the real lack of growth in the title character. By the end of the movie, she's overcome a lot of superficial fears and quirks. However, I didn't leave the movie with the feeling that she's really learned anything. Her character strikes me as kind of sad, and I can't forsee bliss for her going forward. While I don't think this is how the screenplay was intended, this is what comes across.There's a sad line early in the film from Jessica, where she says (I'm paraphrasing) I don't tell my shrink that; it's private. Despite her attempts to overcome her fears, I don't think she overcomes this sense of privacy. The circle of neuroses will continue, and the movie's ending is confusing. Are we supposed to be happy? Sad?I would recommend the aforementioned Happy Accidents (which is coming out on video and DVD next month). It has the similar men-are-so-hard-to-find theme, but treats the subject in a much more real way, with characters that I cared a lot more about by the end of the film. It even takes place in Manhattan, but a very different Manhattan than the fantasy New York in KJS. Stein was watchable, but problematic, and is not good for the analytical like myself. "},{"Title":"Irritating. Kind of.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My reason for not liking this movie so much is kind of a paradox. Jennifer Westfeldt who plays the character of Jessica Stein does her job so well it ruined the film for me.Mixed up? Understandable. Jessica you see is a conservative New Yorker from a Jewish family who in perfect Woody Allen style is completely neurotic. Whereas Woody does neurotic in a funny ironic way Ms. Westfeldt does it in a completely real I'm a pain in the ass way. She's actually too believable. There wasn't a scene with her in it when I didn't feel like catching her by the head and screaming at her wake up to life.Despite this obvious setback the movie succeeds in parts to be genuinely funny and smart. The best line of the movie coming when Jessica is asked if she discusses her lesbian adventure with her therapist. I'll leave the punch line for you.It also avoids thankfully the general lesbian stereotypes which in itself is a breath of fresh air.If you are the kind of person who thinks Hare Krishnas (you'll see) are freaks you may enjoy this flick a little more than I, otherwise you better have a strong stomach. "},{"Title":"Cute movie, but could do without the Annie Hall impression","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable movie, and I would recommend it to everyone. But two things troubled me.First, I never really could understand the motivation of either of the two main characters relating to their need to try lesbianism. Helen was bored having great sex with all types of men? And Jessica was so impressed that a woman would quote her favorite author that she would decide to switch teams? Nope. Don't buy it.And what's with Jennifer Westfeldt's (Jessica) constant impression of Diane Keaton's Annie Hall character? It was annoying in 1977 when Keaton did it, and it's still annoying now. "},{"Title":"Sweet but skin deep","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two women, Jessica (Jennifer Westfeldt) and Helen (Heather Juergensen), meet through a personal ad and tentatively start a lesbian relationship.  The problem--Jessica can't fully commit to it--Helen can.It's a cute movie--reasonably entertaining with some good performances by the two leads (who also wrote it), and also by Scott Cohen (as Jessica's boss and ex) and Tovah Feldshuh (as Jessica's VERY Jewish mother).  Most of the laughs come from Feldshuh who is hysterical.  Also it has multiple happy endings for everybody.  But it's all so fluffy--there's no real depth or meaning in this film.  It's on the level of a very good sitcom.  There's nothing wrong with that, but a movie needs to be more--I walked out feeling kind of empty--like I hadn't seen a real movie.Worth seeing but slight.  DON'T pay $10.00 to see it. "},{"Title":"This movie had so much promise, but.........","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  God, what happened???When I first heard about this movie, I eagerly anticipated seeing it. It sounded like a wonderful story with some very real characters. Well, I just had a chance to watch it and when it was over, I was dumbstruck. The plot is as follows Jessica Stein is a neurotic perfectionist who is unable to sustain a normal heterosexual relationship due to her anal retentiveness and constant criticism when DUM DUM DUM........... She decides to answer an ad under women seeking women. Sound familiar ladies?? Well, it is all down hill from there. The relationship is inevitably doomed due to Jessica's fear of committing herself to a LESBIAN relationship, not to mention that she is as cold as the iceberg that sunk the Titanic. The biggest letdown of them all was that horrible ending, although not surprising to say the least. So, while the story was real and heartwarming, the movie was boring and trite with a host of cliches that made me want to gag. There was nothing remotely redeemable or likable about Jessica at all which left me disappointed. She was annoying, whiny, cold, and emotionally unstable. I would think that you would want to have one likable trait in a lead character of a movie other than looking good in a short skirt and that she did, but I digress. Or at least, something that allows people to connect to the character in some way. All I wanted to do is jump through my tv and smack this whiny chick in the head.With all its flaws and cliches I will say that the  saving grace in the film was the compassionate and open-minded mother played by Tovah Feldshuh. Heather Juergensen was also quite good as the character of Helen.While it was not the worst movie I have ever seen, it was a real let down considering how much potential it had. I would highly recommend movies like High Art, Better than Chocolate or Treading Water if you are looking for good stories about lesbian relationships.  "},{"Title":"Let it marinade","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first time in quite a while, a movie has made me think long after the credits.For some reason, the film left me feeling a bit odd.  It wasn't the subject matter, because I've been around the gay/lesbian community so much that same-sex relationships don't even make me blink.  No, it was the way the movie was wrapped up during the third act.My feeling is that the movie ended the way the writers wanted it to end, not the way the movie should have ended based on the logical progression of the first and second acts.  While the current ending is seemingly true to the characters, it's slammed into so quickly that it nearly ruins the film. We spend 80 minutes watching Jessica finally open up, and actually accept her relationship with Helen.  We come to a point where they just seemed so right together.  After all the weirdness between them, Jessica and Helen are finally good to go, right?Unfortunately, no.  The film goes into a quick happy life montage, and kills their relationship off shortly thereafter.  We spend 80 minutes getting to a point where Helen and Jessica finally make it over a number of hurdles, only to have everything yanked down in a few two minute scenes?Had the movie planned for this collapse, it could have led to a more satisfying ending.  Taking a seemingly nice relationship and hammering it down with a bunch of three month later cuts, cheapens the effect of the movie. It becomes especially cheap when problems they had earlier in the film, but managed to get over, suddenly make their way back in the last ten minutes.I may seem hyper-critical, but it's only because I loved the first two-thirds of the film so much.  It was a breath of fresh air that I'm not used to getting in a movie theater.  I was so in love with everything, only to have it pulled out from under me by a swift, little rhyme-or-reason conclusion.My only other gripe would have to be the character of Josh.  He had the potential to be a major part of the film, but it seems that in order to keep the focus on Jessica and Helen, he had to be relegated to the sideline. It's too bad, because I think Scott Cohen is one heck of an actor, and he brought a real sense of humor to a potentially melodramatic role.Anyway, despite my negative comments, see the film.  Make up your own mind about the conclusion.  This is a very original movie, and definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Marinated a bit too long","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would like to begin by saying that this is most definitely not a bad a movie.  For anyone starved by the vapid potboilers showing today, this movie offers a refreshing change.  What it does not do, however, is distinguish itself in any positive way.My main complaint with this film is its vapid intellectualism.  Quoting famous authors and using lots of fancy (even foreign) words is all good in principle, but when you fail to capture the secular humanism that all great art and literature represent you might as well be reading a McDonald's menu. To illustrate this, Jessica begins the film at a job she hates and with only the memories of a failed relationship.  She ends the film in another job she hates and with only the memories of another failed relationship. Where is the personal growth?  Why are we watching this?  The person that wrote this story seems to believe that simply because one relationship was hetero and the other homosexual, this somehow makes things different.  I do not draw such distinctions.Another thing I did not like about the film was its poor characterizations. The arguments in the film are so trivial that it depends on deep characters to make us believe they are real.  I mean anyone that requires literature to get into the act of sex is really missing the point!  From a masculine point of view the entire sexual experimentation shown in the film is as bland and uninteresting as the men Jessica is shown dating.One last comment I would like to make is that the thing this movie does best is bring itself down.  Routinely Jessica is told, You're too obsessed with perfection in others, and that is exactly true for the entire film.  She is also told you're too conservative sexually for this kind of lifestyle, and this is true as well.  What I would like to see is some kind change in Jessica to identify with these issues.  To use a quote, we must learn to be happy because of and not in spite of our flaws.  Rent Manhattan for a true thinking person's film, and leave this on the shelf. "}{"Title":"Slapping Jessica stein...","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  cause thats what I wanted to do!!!(I'll take Helen any day!) This movie was still WAY better then I thought it would be. And for a romantic comedy it was OK. I'd give it 3 stars outta 5(unless I think about it too much, then it would be 2 outta 5).It was fast paced and hardly stupid sappy. But I could not deal with Ms.Stein's wimpy,dithering icky-ness! And whats up with her mouth!? And**SPOILER**SPOILER** Whats up with saying Helen dumped her cause she wasn't GAY ENOUGH!!?? How about Helen dumped me cause... I'm a cold fish or I was lying to myself about my sexuality or I'm a huge loser as a real person!! Not gay enough...ugh! Shoot! I've thought about it too much now...2 stars out of 5 is the real deal.  "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The entire plot is already in the preview and it is very conventional. The movie has no content, no message, no power and no emotion. It's not a lesbian movie, it's the mockery of a lesbian relationship as seen by straight macho guys who need to brainwash women into thinking they really need a guy if their lives.  "},{"Title":"Less than trivial","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an attempt to cash in on the then-new lesbian-or-is-she? trend with a Woody Allen-ish chatty, yet vacuous, script for teenage girls who haven't seen Annie Hall yet or didn't understand it. Kissing Jessica Stein (Stein--surprise!) came off just plain annoying. Of course the two girls are beautiful, their hair, make up, and dress perfect in every scene. Good thing, because the conservative Jewish Stein strings along the horny femme fatale Helen like a virgin on prom night, only this prom night lasts forever. Suddenly, after great sex, hysterically blacked out, Jessica decides she wants the Jewish male co-worker she has spurned for years. See? She got to experience something out of the ordinary, but then, like a good girl, she returned to her normal life. Whew! That was a close one! I was so afraid the pining co-worker was going to go home alone! And thank goodness Helen quickly got a new girlfriend so we don't feel sorry for her either. "},{"Title":"My opinion","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought it was really good but I have to say that the ending really disappointed me. I would of liked it to go a different way to be honest. Although up until the ending It was really funny, and I loved it. the main character seemed a bit stiff and boring it was like she didn't know how to live. Well saying that I did like the main character just thought she took a bit of a long time to come out of her shell, too long! Other than that I think the actors were really great and the plot was good and so was the layout of the film. I just wish it would of given a way better ending as I am a strong believer in true love and all that wacky stuff. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, due to its gay themes, but it has some sharp comedy and social comments","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt, who also co-wrote the fine screenplay) is a beautiful, straight journalist in Manhattan. She comes from a tightknit Jewish family and her mother, Judy (Tovah Feldshuh) is, naturally, hoping her daughter will find a nice man, settle down, and have children. But, the search for Mr. Right has proved very difficult. From weirdos to ego-maniacs to uptight accountants who wish to split the dinner bill down to the last lettuce leaf, she has been disappointed time and again. And her boss, Josh (Scott Cohen), a former flame, sometimes makes her life hard, too. Thus, when a co-worker mistakenly reads a personal ad that includes a quote from a favorite book of Jessica's, the young journalist is intrigued, even though the ad was written by a woman seeking another woman. Men have been such a colossal let-down, perhaps a relationship with a woman would prove more promising. Thus, Jessica answers the ad and meets Helen (Heather Juergensen). Helen is a bi-sexual art gallery operator and she likes what she sees in Jessica. But, Jessica begs for Helen to go slowly so she can determine if lesbianism is for her. Will it be? Or will Jessica realize that she is only interested in men? This is a witty and comical film, with some sharp social observations. Yet, it will not be for everyone, as homosexuality is a controversial topic for some. The actors do a fine job, especially the very beautiful Westfeldt. Also, the costuming is so wonderful, it will have any fashionista drooling. The setting and other film amenities are very fine as well. As for the script, it is marvelous, with many memorable lines and scenes, and the direction is lively and skillful. In short, if you love comedy and/or romance, and are up for anything, this one has its charms. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" KJS was directed by Charles Herman-Wurmfeld, but written by Heather Juergensen & Jennifer Westfeldt, who star in the film as New Yorkers Jessica Stein & Helen Cooper. Despite the lesbianism there is little T&A- the leads are rather frumpy, but not unattractive, women. The story is every lesbian's fantasy- seducing a clueless straight girl fed up with the male sex. This banal premise goes nowhere. Jessica's hetero-frustration is portrayed in a montage of bad dates that could only occur in films, so right away emotional realism is tossed, & sets the film up for a failure to connect on anything but a superficial level. Helen is a bisexual fed up with men's shallowness & places 1 of those 'bi-curious' personal ads. Jessica reads it, is intrigued by a quote from Rilke (she is a copy editor & bookworm), & answers. Even though the ad claims to seek 'friendship or more' any person over the age of 20 (especially a copy editor) would know this is adspeak for a lesbian relationship. The 30+ Jessica is clueless, & spends the whole film never even attempting to get with it. That Jessica, as portrayed before meeting Helen, could ever be attracted to such a duplicitous & shallow sort as Helen- even if a man- undercuts the whole point of her dates-from-hell montage. Also, it's supposed to be funny that she approaches her 1st lesbian experience with a slew of 'how to' books. Yes, this is a comedy, but it's not too much to ask the characters & writing to show some maturity & developmental stability. "},{"Title":"Warm-hearted, but the chicken soup was a little cool","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lets face it, more than a few female Jewish thirtysomethings in Manhattan take a stopwatch to bed to time the length of their orgasms, then ask their therapists to evaluate the mechanism of the watch, rather than the act itself, or the person with whom it was conducted.There are plenty of neurotics around, but sometimes, just sometimes, a film like this makes you feel, well, a little neurotic about them. One Woody Allen is enough.Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen get off with each other, the former, apparently because she finds most guys emotionally retarded or losers, the latter, because she is sleeping around in an unfulfilled manner. So far so good. But these women are supposedly intellectual and creative, the decent guy who secretly fancies her even quotes Anais Nin, implying Jessica's search for perfection relates to her perception of it, rather than perfection itself.Beyond the schmaltz and warm family scenes, particularly pleasing when Jess's mother acknowledges she knows she is with another woman, there are few home truths and little analysis of the human condition. The best vignette ended on the cutting room floor - Jackie Hoffman, who works in the same newspaper officer as our heroine, has settled down with a NJB (nice Jewish boy) and will forgo wild sex as she adapts to motherhood; she kisses Helen (Juergensen) on the mouth during a stairwell assignation at the wedding, you can see waves crashing on the beach as she experiences a taste of the medicine from this femme fatale, who has transformed Jessica's life.The two stars, who also wrote this piece, have excellent chemistry together and the ending is not as bad - or clichéd - as some would suggest. But this wasn't exactly the Jewish penicillin I'd hoped for, mind you, I might start reading Anais Nin again. "},{"Title":"well written,with good performances","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i found this movie very entertaining it's a very well written,witty romantic comedy,with bit of a twist.the two romantic leads are women.this premise has been done before,with the same supporting character types that usually populate this genre.but the performances are what breath new life into this movie,plus the the characters are all likable,which certainly helps.there are no drop dead funny moments,but there a lot of amusing scenes.the movie is also well paced.however,it's not for everyone.in fact some may find it offensive,due to the subject matter,as well as some strong adult language.but if you go in with an open mind,you should enjoy yourself for 90 minutes or so.for me,Kissing Jessica Stein is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Half drama, half comedy, an unconventional romance story.","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen are friends, actors, and writers. Together they developed the script for 'Kissing Jessica Stein' and also use it as a vehicle for showcasing their acting. I hadn't recalled seeing them in anything before, and it was a nice bonus to see how good they are. I especially like Westfeld, she has a natural, innocent beauty and has really fine acting instincts, for scenes with either a dramatic or a comic touch. Set and shot in NYC, on a small budget, some scenes were simply shot on the street with normal foot and vehicle traffic, interested onlookers not quite sure what was going on. Not a great movie, but entertaining for its offbeat approach to dating.Some SPOILERS follow, you may not want to read further if you have not seen the movie.Jennifer Westfeldt plays Jessica Stein, approaching 30, still with no serious relationship. We see small glimpses of her attempts, with the most dreadful dates imaginable. She worries that she is too much of a perfectionist, and her boss, an old friend and would-be suitor, says Maybe the problem isn't all the men, maybe it is you, Jessica. Tovah Feldshuh plays her Jewish mother, equally anxious to see Jessica happily married. Heather Juergensen plays Helen Cooper, whose ad Jessica answers. Heather is substantially a lesbian, but takes time out for quick sex with the delivery boy. Jessica likes to plan everything, Heather likes to take each moment as it comes. As the story unfolds we see Jessica coming out of her shell, finally admitting to friends and family that she and Heather are together. It doesn't last, but in the process Jessica Stein has been kissed, and she will never be the same. While the story has a same-sex romance theme, it never preaches. It treats the foibles of same-sex relationships the same as it might for any two people. "},{"Title":"Three steps forward","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie could  be watched anytime with the eyes of an over-rated audience only seeking for entertainment, which is the first element that appeared in it we see trough the concern of Jessica's mother and friends to a 28 years-old journalist who cannot settle herself down in a relationship, as she goes dating and facing her own difficulties to find The One.Then we know Helen, and only God knows why she have decided to experience all the wings of love. Sure this wouldn't be an easy path among flowers, and this is what she'll discover after a searched carefully by casual encounter with Jessica.As I ain't supposed to tell you all the twists and key access to whatever this movie has to offer, I'll let you find out by yourself. Only for the record, remember that Helen has tasted life in a number of ways and Jessica has been having nothing but loving mix-ups and provoked more disillusions around her that she can manage.To end with a fine anecdotal touch, the advise that Helen gave to Jessica as they were in process of knowing each other You won't find it for The One color of lipstick... combine them all. There she goes again as she does with her sexual needs with former three lover men, she prefers the conjunction of three different types of lipsticks. You will get it from here... "}{"Title":"Good, could have got better marks if not as predictable","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The roles were well done, no complaints about that. But feeling that the predictability of the story-line rivals those of Love-Boat scripts, a 7/10 says it is an enjoyable but no challenging movie for the viewer. "},{"Title":"Marvelous Debut!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is an excellent debut from two relatively inexperienced filmmakers.  It is very rare to find two individuals who not only wrote, produced and starred in the movie, but also do a fantastic job of humbly showcasing their own talents and allow other cast members to shine also.  It is no wonder that this film has won so many awards and accolades.This is a clever, witty and funny look at the modern romantic comedy involving two extremely likeable main characters.  Beautifully shot and edited, the film also acts as an advertisement for the gorgeous city of New York.  Wonderful performances from Westfeldt and Juergensen, beautifully refined by comedic supporting roles from Tovah Feldshuh and Jackie Hoffman make the film.This is not simply a film about lesbian relationships, but a film about relationships in general, so please do not be put off by the context. This is a very sweet and touching movie, that reminds us of all the good things in life.I recommend the commentary from Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen on the DVD for some inside looks into the world of filmmaking and indie film production.An excellent feel good film, I look forward to work from these filmmakers in the future.  Ten out of Ten!  "},{"Title":"Could have been bad, but wasn't!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It could have been crude, or thoughtless, or stereotypical.However it's very funny, very cute with very talented actors and actressesMy only problem is how the main character 'Jessica' seems to be ashamed that she's a lesbian - and acts like it's a freakishly abnormal thing! "},{"Title":"Brilliant until the last 20 minutes","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finely acted, keenly written, craftily directed - I was totally with this movie until the plot betrayed me towards the end.  The first 80 minutes are your basic romantic comedy - with, of course, the obstacle being that one of the two girls in love is not ready to come to grips with being in a lesbian relationship because she's a conservative Jewish girl from Scarsdale.  I felt I knew these characters, and I'd have them over to dinner in a jif. But once the obstacle is overcome, it turns out there's another obstacle, and that is handled far too briefly to be satisfying emotionally.  I was left feeling a little sad.  Fine if it's an art film, but then the first 80 minutes shouldn't have been a romantic comedy.Anyway, definitely worth seeing for the clever, witty writing and the adorable characters, but not as good as it could have been, and beware the slightly down ending. "},{"Title":"Made out well","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The word of mouth is that `Kissing Jessica Stein' is one of the freshest romantic-comedies of the year. My lips are sealed on what the climax of the film is all about, but I can tell you that the movie is about a `had it with men' New York reporter who unexpectedly falls for a flamboyant art gallerist. Yes there Einstein! `Kissing Jessica Stein' is about a lesbian relationship. The movie is witty, resourceful, and enticing. Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen execute wonderful debut performances. Watching Westfeldt as Jessica, I really felt a second coming of a Julia Roberts; while Juergensen reminded me more of a sexy Janine Gaerofolo. The screenplay `Kissing Jessica Stein' is very real and modern. So get ready to pucker up and `kiss jessica stein' today. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Lots of Points for Originality","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a thoroughly original plot.  In a sea of banal plots in most movies, that alone is enough to give a recommendation to see the movie.  I was hesitant to see the movie because I typically don't care for gay-themed plots, but to characterize this as another gay-themed plot would really sell it short.  It has more to do with relationships in general and the extent to which someone will go to avert loneliness.  That is a theme that likely resonates with all people at some time in their life.I enjoyed this movie while watching it, but liked it perhaps more upon reflecting on it.  In perhaps what is implicitly my highest praise, I had no idea how this film was going to turn out.  I was quite satisfied with the way it did end.  "},{"Title":"Good Relationship Film (7/10)","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this on DVD, YMMVJessica Stein is a woman who just cannot find the right person to have a relationship with.  When she reads a quote in the Personal Ads from a writer she likes, she calls the woman, Helen, who placed on a whim.  The surprising thing to Helen and the audience is how hard Helen falls for Jessica.  A movie ensues that is not as polished or as funny as Annie Hall, nor handles bisexuality as well as Chasing Amy, but is pretty good nevertheless.Her relationship with Helen makes transformative changes in Jessica, who seems skittish about physical intimacy in general.  Jessica, who was a talented artist in the past has lost something, or something has happened to her.  We never really know.  There are no hints.  But she went from seriously pursuing painting to being a copy editor at a paper.  One suspects that she is good at the job because she is so neurotic about details.  It is through her relationship with Helen, both physical and, much more important, emotional intimacy that Jessica is able to rekindle that passion.I was quite pleased and look forward to another film from this team. "},{"Title":"A bright, thoughtful pleasure","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I watched this film, I kept thinking of all the people I needed torecommend it to.  It's that rare romantic comedy where everyoneinvolved in the romantic elements actually seems to behave likerational adults.  Throughout the film, comparisons to Annie Hallkept flashing through my mind, and the final scene could havebeen lifted directly from that classic.  But as the maxim goes, ifyou're gonna steal, steal from the best.  I ended up truly liking and caring about virtually all of the keycharacters, although I must admit that Helen showed greaterpatience with Jessica when they first met than I would have beenable to (which, perhaps, is why Jessica finds more happiness atthat point in her life dating a woman that she had dating men). The fact is, Jessica could be downright shrill at times, but that onlyserved to humanize the character.  After all, real people aren'talways at their best. I could also see where some gay viewers might find the hey, let'sexperiment with a same-sex relationship plot somewhatoffensive.  And apparently so did the writers/stars, for they includea scene where Helen's gay friend condemns her for same.  But hedoes so in such harsh terms, it makes the point far too easy todismiss.  I know you can't delve into every issue in 96 minutes, butI thought this was one area where the film was just a bit shallow.Overall, however, I thought Kissing Jessica Stein was a gem thatwill hold up over repeated viewings.  The performances were wellnuanced and reflected excellent casting and directing decisions.  Ifyou haven't seen it yet, rent it tonight.  If you have seen it, rent itagain.  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"When it comes to movies, sometimes we don't (thankfully) just play it straight","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh my Lord! `Kissing Jessica Stein' actually doesn't have Hollywood lesbian stereotypes! After recovering from the shock I recall this is a low budget movie and realize that Hollywood is still stuck in it's conservative mire.Nice simple plot this one. Jessica Stein has gotten nowhere with the men in her life - there's always been some flaw. In a fit of experimentation she answers an end from one Helen, a woman seeking a relationship with a woman. From there we see Jessica awkwardly adjusting to this new life, while overhead looms her brother's wedding and - in her office - her ex-fiancée, who is still in love with her. It's simple enough, but this is a romantic comedy and doesn't really need a twisting narrative.But is it any good? Is it romantic? Yeah, it is. What's refreshing here is the relationship itself. There's no agenda here, nor is the relationship a product of some male fantasy (the script was written by the two female leads). Instead its full of amusing moments, with awkwardness (particularly on Jessica's part) and genuine feeling (as the movie progresses). It's not trying to be an issue movie, although the movie does falter in its stereotypes of other characters (Helen's museum friends, the Jewish mother). Still the characters are all likable and none ever grate on your nerves.Direction is grand. There's a `hand cam' feel approach at times, presumably from both artistic merit and budgetary limitations. It's good enough - the pacing is grand, the movie never really drags and the lead characters share just enough of the spot light so as not to upstage anyone. The performances the actors give are good. They're certainly not excellent but they do get themselves into character and let us suspend our disbelief (which is their job).So in the end this movie is worth seeing. There's not enough meat to fill you up, but the amiable nature of the cast, and script makes it a nice snack. As a genre romantic comedies are plagued with generally awful outputs but `Kissing Jessica Stein' is one of the few - thankful - exceptions. I'll go with the IMDB average here of 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Charming, crowd-pleasing","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cute with a capital Q, Kissing Jessica Stein tells the tale of lovelorn, neurotic  Jewish New Yorker (stop me if you've heard this one before -) Jessica (Jennifer  Westfeldt), who is fed up with one awful would-be boyfriend after another. With  her desperate-for-grandchildren Jewish mother (Tovah Feldshuh) breathing down  her neck at Yom Kippur services (stop me if you've heard this one before -), she  is about to give up on dating when a co-worker reads a moving Rainer Maria Rilke  quote from the personals ads. Pity that the ad appears in the women seeking women section, and is posted by  artsy, promiscuous but mostly heterosexual Helen (Heather Juergen), seeking out  some hot girl-on-girl action for herself on a whim. With this plotline, and the Friends-goes-R-rated comedic approach, this movie  could have been a disaster, but all in all it's very entertaining and evencharming. There are stereotypes everywhere you turn (fey, advice-giving gaymale friends; mousey but avidly sexual coworker; slutty and gossippy artcrowd), but it's handled lightly and mostly thoughtfully. Westfeldt and Juergen  wrote the script, which was originally an off-Broadway play, and the two have a  delightful rapport on screen. Scott Cohen co-stars as Jessica's former boyfriend,  and current editor, Josh. He does a fine job. The music, cinematography andoverall tone of the film is lighthearted and crowd-pleasing.  "}{"Title":"different","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie simply because it is relieving to see something different on the screen.  This includes the storyline of a woman searching for love - with a great big twist. I am a heterosexual unbothered by homosexual plots. In fact, I wish they could become more mainstream so that ignorance would be thwarted.  "},{"Title":"smart and sexy","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  a smart and sexy film that has heart.  it shows how we are a desperately lonely and looking for love and sometimes that love can be blind - but in the end to illuminate. "},{"Title":"light but fun and affecting","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put, I liked this movie. It was funny and fun yet had enough substance that it couldn't simply be dismissed as just yet another lesbian flick. It feels like there's so many of those pictures made now, where some lonely girl finds her true self in the arms of another woman and then they both live happily ever after. But this was more complicated, and thus much more interesting. Watch for the scene between Jessica and her mother. You'll know it when you see it. It makes the whole film worthwhile (not that it wasn't already). "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy like we haven't seen before","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not to be too frothy and starry eyed but this film is borderline great. It's definitely the best romantic comedy that has come along for a long time.OK - so being a Romantic Comedy it has to be set in Manhattan right? And it is.But that's about all it shares with that reliable genre that Hollywood has so faithfully tamed into a collection of clichéd motions and cookie cutter plots. Romantic Comedies survive today as a bland herd of movie house staples to be milked ad infinitum as long as Meg Ryan can stay cute.Firstly, there are no Meg Ryans or Kate Beckinsales bounding about the set with the energy of an adolescent. In fact, you've probably never heard of anyone in the movie (It had a $1mm budget and to borrow from DeMille, a cast of dozens).Second, it's not about a cute man and his best buddy bumbling around through gratuitious comic sequences in order to meet the cute girl and her best chum who are meanwhile focused on imploring the gods for a sign or a clue if they have indeed found The One. (Cue to reader  Take a breath now) It is about a cute girl and a cute girl who become best friends and to their surprise, start falling in love.So this is where the audience polarizes into the right and the left. If you are on the right, bear with me please. I would like to subvert you.Jessica is a Jewish princess with neuroses that would do Woody Allen proud. Helen is an adventurous downtown gallery manager with Betty Boop eyes. The women are straight at the beginning of the film and KJS shows, in turns tender and comic but always always natural, how they develop a relationship and have a go at physical consummation. The two leads have a rare chemistry that you feel like the invisible best friend that has been left out of the script, eagerly wanting to hear more and more about how their relationship is doing.Through Jessica, we see how she has to deal with telling her world of conservative Upper East Side  friends and suburban family about her changing sexuality. Through Helen, we see how she gets frustrated at feeling shut out of Helen's straight life.The film is outstandingly excellent at vignettes - there are so many precious scenes in the movie (not surprising given that it was developed from an off-Broadway production of skits). There is one scene where Jessica and Helen are in a cab bumping down Broadway and talking about lipstick and the secret to a really good application (blending a mixture of Prescriptives, MaxFactor and some other brand that I'm sure women in the audience will respond to). Then there is another scene (again in a cab) where Jessica is talking on her cell phone to her mother about visiting and without skipping a beat, reaches out to feel Helen's leather pants to interject Where did you get these? I am so borrowing!. Scenes like these lend a feeling of real authenticity to the development of the relationship (think Dogme 95 with better lighting) because they are the stuff that we build on when we get to know someone, something that the Hollywood machine has forgotten with its historical credo of giving people reel life rather than real life.Those who love the written/spoken word will love the scenes at Jessica's workplace, a newspaper, where they banter over the meaning of the word nonplussed and how you might use marinate as a verb outside of the food context (everyone who has seen the movie starts using marinate in their sentences).It's delightful, it's sincere. It's smart and it's urbanite. It's about the most charming film about lovers of any orientation that you'll ever come across.  "},{"Title":"A well-done little film.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" KISSING JESSICA STEIN  **+_  Drama / Jennifer Westfeldt, Heather Jurgensen, Tovah FeldshuhA Jewish girl in New York City experiences a succession of blind dates from hell. One day she chances across the Personals ads for lesbian encounters and decides to give it a try. The movie chronicles how that works out.Written by the two co-stars, KISSING JESSICA STEIN is filled with fairly authentic characters. From Jessica's family to her co-workers, to a couple of men at a bar, we watch as each comes to grip with couple's non-standard relationship. And there's a fair amount of Jewish humor thrown in for good measure. The fact that most of the camerawork is handheld (without Steadicam) and some of the sound is less than perfect makes me think it's a 'little' film. But it's well done and worth watching. It reminds me of Woody Allen. Zero car chases or explosions. "},{"Title":"When Sally Met Sally...","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" KISSING JESSICA STEIN (2002) ***1/2 Jennifer Westfeldt, Heather Juergensen, Tovah Feldshuh, Scott Cohen, Jackie Hoffman.  Wonderfully screwy romantic comedy with a twist girl meets girl and falls in love.  Westfeldt (as the titular New York neurotic) and Juergensen (as the sexually charged Helen Cooper) co-wrote this witty and fantastically funny look at sex, love, relationships and the chances one takes in the form of frustration in the outlet of answering a personal ad with plenty of surprises ahead.  The two pretty gals connect in more ways then one with chemistry, baby, chemistry and a Woody Allen-like flair for capturing Manhattan in a bottle with its art scene and basic majestic magic infusing the film's momentum as well thanks to director Charles Herman Wormfeld who wisely lets his lead couple all to themselves.  One of the year's best and funniest films&#133;with heart.  "},{"Title":"Does gender matter when it comes to romantic love?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is an enjoyable movie that has a great dealof fun playing with gender roles and the notion of romantic love.Jessica Stein (played by Jennifer Westfeldt, who shares writingcredits with her co-star) is a young, single, woman in New York, avictim of the dating scene. None of her potential suitors (blinddates, office mates, friends of friends, children of friends ofparents -- the -- the single person's nightmare) are up to herstandards, or ours as viewers. Jessica despairs of finding theright person. Until she reads an ad in the personals section towhich she cannot resist responding. Jessica is a writer, and loveswords for their own sake. The language of the ad strikes a chord inher heart. However, she realizes the ad is in the Women SeekingWomen section. After much anguish, and several more failures onthe singles scene, she calls and sets up a date with HelenCooper (Heather Juergenson). What follows is an always funny, often poignant, exploration ofwhat love is all about. Does gender matter? How do you come outof a close you've never been in? And most of all, is happiness themost important thing? "},{"Title":"A Bisexual Annie Hall","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is actually pretty funny.  Often times the laughter in the theater was so loud it drowned out some of the dialog.  But it is very derivative of Woody Allen's nervous, neurotic, intellectual, Jewish, New Yorkers.  Jessica has speech mannerisms similar to Diane Keaton in Annie Hall. It even has some old jazz tunes which are similar to some of Woody Allen's older films.I would have liked it better if the male lead was more likable and the last 10 minutes were not as funny as the rest of the film.  Other than that, it was pretty good.  It has the production quality of a made for TV film, so you might want to wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Yay! (For Straight Guys -)","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  And yes, I'm a Straight Guy, and proud of it! For once, this genre -- which I really like, but which way too often stereotypes SGs as too angry, too dense, too dumb, or, worst, too lousy in bed -- played it fair to all parties & gender/preferences.This movie had it all & is much more about life, love, what kinds of people are good for you (or not), family stuff, and of course the importance of sex in a relationship.  (Gasp.)  Plus, it was freakin' hilarious! *8`-))Also, it was a personal bonus for me to see the OD (Older Dyke) next to me squirm and twitch towards the end of the movie, *chuckle*.  I left feeling great.  "},{"Title":"Very good romantic comedy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I saw that movie, I can't stop telling people to go see it! It's an intelligent and witty film that is not just about lesbianism, but really more about friendship. The acting is excellent, both Jennifer Westfeldt and Heather Juergensen gave top notch performance. Some scenes moved me like the one where Jessica's mother tells her that Helen seems to be a wonderful girl. Go see this one!Out of 100, I gave it 82. That's good for *** out of **** stars.Seen in Toronto, at the Varsity Odeon Cinemas, on March 21th, 2002. "}{"Title":"Lesbian Moonstruck","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is very funny, touching and romantic. The interesting here is that the romance at the center of the film is between two women. The film is about Helen (Heather Juergensen), a bisexual woman looking for the right relationship. She finds it with Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) a neurotic but intelligent straight woman. The impressive script, written by the lead actresses, strikes the right balance between humor and compassion. This is probably the lesbian Moonstruck. I know the idea of seeing a romantic comedy with two women may put off some, but, as they say in the film let it marinate for a while. The audience I saw it with at the Los Angeles Independent Film Festival seemed to love it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"It's just a movie, not even a film","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found very little to dislike about this movie. I got the DVD at a used video store because I vaguely remembered some noise about this movie when it first came out. I found the packaging intriguing the first four or five times I came across it and finally got it because it seemed more interesting than most of the other dreck on the shelves. I don't know if it's the influence of Seinfeld re-runs or a decade of Simpsons or my own experiences with the gay and bi communities, but this movie seemed very sitcom-like. The commentaries on the DVD were very educational for me, as I am a writer, but the fact that it took two years in development, with the writers, the two leads, learning how to put a film together, and then later having to create a finished product through intensive editing, leaves the result seeming very pretty. What their cinematographer was able to salvage from last minute location choices and odd lighting opportunities is very impressive and by contrast the script seems very chintzy in the variable quality of the various skits that were tacked onto each other to form the plot. There is a feeling-their-way process that becomes very evident in the last third of the movie. A simple plot twist might have made it more interesting than the slow slide into the end credits that we are presented with. The commentary by the actress/writers lends a stand-up or improv feel to the film, when one watches it after listening to their stories about the production. It also makes some of the gags seem overwrought and clung to because the writers were in love with them, as opposed to feeling that the bits were integral to the film. The locations, to this Non-easterner, were generic. The music choices, while dear to the film's makers, made no difference to me. In the end, I found myself applauding the maker's choices in supporting players, their performances often being what kept the DVD in the player, instead of becoming a makeshift Frisbee. As for the lesbian angle of the film, I guess I'm just jaded or closer to the reality of the situation. I found that it was a hook that the writers chose to hang their gags on. Which is appropriate, considering their own description of the original skit from which the script sprang as being two 'Laura Ashley-types' getting a pedicure at a spa talking about how one might stage manage a girl on girl encounter. This is not a quote but a sloppy memory of the statement on the movie's Fox Searchlight website. A cute movie that may give the creators the courage to make a film. "},{"Title":"A decent independent film","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film that also appears to have raked it in on its theatrical release as well &#150; you can definitely see the appeal it must have had at the time. Although it's debatable whether somebody like me is actually in the desired target audience, all the same, I'm still able to appreciate a good film when I see one.It's always interesting to compare an independent film with their more polished counterparts &#150; although on a budget of $1m, they were hardly skimping on this one &#150; and it's always a good laugh to see people in the background of shots staring at the location shoot as if they've never seen a camera before. In truth, they are probably trying to see if they can spot anybody famous, but it just gives the film that raw edge that takes you back to your own film-making days when similar problems were encountered.However, on the whole these 'problems' are kept to a minimum and apart from the odd seen-it-all-before neurotic Jewish family moment, the action plays out very well and also ends quite well, although why and if she'd end up with Josh, I'm just not sure. The guy was obviously a bit of a muppet - the way he spoke down to her at the beginning in front of everybody - so maybe they could have improved upon the ending a little but who knows, maybe she'll be back into women next week... "},{"Title":"Lesbianism As A Fad","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two straight women dabble in lesbianism--that's the premise of this performance piece-turned-film created by and starring Heather Juergensen and Jennifer Westfeldt and directed by Charles Herman-Wurmfeld. The premise is complicated by the title character's Jewishness (read neuroses) and the havoc it reeks on the relationship. Unfortunately, it also serves to insult the very notion of lesbianism, preferring to discard it as just another self-help fad on the road to fulfilled Jewish womanhood (read getting a man). As Jessica Stein, Westfeldt is a direct imitation of Annie Hall, but with double doses of Diane Keaton's quick-draw responses and sheepish mannerisms infused with a `Friends'-style snarkiness (she even bears a strong resemblance to Lisa Kudrow); she wears out her welcome very quickly. As her lover, Juergensen is somewhat more restrained and ambiguous but has to play second banana to Westfeldt's relentless whining and fails to make enough of an impression. With Tovah Feldshuh as Jessica's yente mother whose immediate and wholehearted acceptance of her daughter's choice strains credibility. The only good laughs are provided by Esther Wurmfeld as Jessica's grandmother. Herman-Wurmfeld turns in a passable directing job and should have no problem becoming a Hollywood hack. "},{"Title":"Fun and sincere new-edge girl stuff","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is all about Manhattan and Jewish and single and female and dating and one woman who finds love in the arms of another woman and then has to figure out if she's gay and  comes out...not necessarily in that order. A sincere, fun frolic full of hip girl talk and girl stuff, Kissing... keeps busy and doesn't get too gay, try too hard, or take itself too seriously making it an enjoyable watch for most adults. (B-) "},{"Title":"More celluloid wasted on lifestyles of the privileged and nombrilistic","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No better than a sitcom.  A film about people in love with themselves, you know, the kind in which he can't believe she's not responsive to his charms because he has so much going for himself, blah, blah.  Just another film made by people who take themselves and their special lives very seriously. Are these the only kind of people who live in New York? "},{"Title":"tired cliches","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One old cliche after another with gay plot lines that felt more from the era of Boys In The Band.  Maybe I was expecting too much - but I was expecting something.  I found myself cringing throughout.  Not much more to say. Relies on cleverness instead of substance. "},{"Title":"Rom com by the numbers with a lesbian twist","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In cliched yuppiedom, Jessica Stein's having trouble finding 'the' man 'till she decides to give lesbianism a go. And whilst this doesn't lead to her relationship nirvana and least she's found her true self.Set in a New York Jewish context (is this significant? Are Jews more likely to try lesbianism? Are they more willing to accept it?), 'Kissing Jessica Stein' explores the universal themes of love and being accepted by friends and family for who, not what, you are.This is a gently paced, quirky, inoffensive little comedy that isn't as profound as it thinks it is or particularly funny.The performances aren't bad but the cliches come thick and fast, undermining an attempt to produce something genuinely different.  "},{"Title":"Much Better than MBFGW","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much better than My Big Fat Greek Wedding.If you have to choose, see this (Kissing Jessica Stein) instead of MBFGW.I'd say its because I'm from NY, not Chicago, but I liked Chicago a great deal.  "},{"Title":"Nice try, almost but not quite great","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein isn't exactly a perfect movie, but it had me rooting for it. It's treatment of let's try being gay sexuality isn't as messy as, say, Chasing Amy ... this movie knows what it wants to say and it says it. Jessica and Helen are straight women who decide to try out a relationship with a woman because, well, just because. Everyone is simultaneously right and wrong; the film doesn't pass negative judgment on either of the main characters. The movie takes an unbelievable relationship based mostly on the kinds of things that only happen in movies, and actually makes you believe in it. "}{"Title":"NEW YORK LAUGHS","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film that is on a higher plane to Friends and reminds you when Woody Allen was funny. Perhaps not as risque as it believes, but it contains some laugh out loud lines. All the characters are well written and believable. A good summer night out. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Smart but loses something in the end","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was really interesting to watch. Its very realistic(mainly because its an indie film) and at the same time very fun(lots of intelligent and very interesting conversation). The film basically deals with two women living in New York(i think) who get tired of men. One of them is the very sexually adventurous Helen and Jessica, who is constantly trying to find the right man but is always stuck with losers(i love the guy that calculates the bill). Helen decides to post a lovers add in the paper with a good quote(Jessica believes the right person for her will have a good and original quote). After the two meet the movie really starts to kick in. One cannot help but think this is a Fucking Åmål rip off (simply because its the same story only that Fucking Åmål is much much better, especially the kiss in the car). I have to say i was very impressed when i found out that the two actresses were the ones that wrote the story. The content is very intelligent. The film has depth and a very unique richness and energy only found in indie films, but somehow....everything is lost in the end. Am not going to say what happens(for those of you that haven't watched it and should watch it) but the ending was so horrible it may almost make you mad. Ofcourse some were unaware of this, simply because the story was already original enough. Fucking Åmål it is not, but an interesting movie it is. Very intelligent. I hope to see more work from these two very capable women. "},{"Title":"How many times must I see the same foul film?","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kissing Jessica Stein is an off-Broadway film, which should speak volumes to those of us who don't need to justify our intelligence, that can only be described as typical. There isn't a plot twist of which to speak, a witty line to reiterate, or even a solid conflict. Everything from beginning to end is presented fallaciously from its stereotypical view of men to its stereotypical ideas of what exactly it is to be gay. The acting is atrocious at best and can only be cited as much like the worst of Jennifer Anniston. The jokes aren't funny, the story drags like a dog with no hind legs, and worst of all the pomposity of the whole affair just grinds on the nerves of most people who don't need to inundate their vernacular with obscurely used words. Sarcasm aside, this movie is just a money making machine with no pure emotion or ideas behind it. I give it a two out of ten and that's just because I got preoccupied with other much more interesting things about halfway through. Yes, this feel good movie had the adverse effect, I felt queasy, queasy that I just doled out hard-earned cash to feed prissy girlie girls.  "},{"Title":"A Delightful Romance","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jessica Stein (Jennifer Westfeldt) is a Jewish girl above thirty, editor of a newspaper, who has difficulties to have a boyfriend due to her criticism. One day, she answers an advertisement of a girl looking for a girlfriend. The beginning of a lesbian relationship, her doubts (specially belonging to a Jewish family) are presented in a delightful way. The story is not 'mushy' indeed is a delightful romance. Actors and actresses are very natural, reflecting a splendid direction. The plot is unconventional and entertains without any kind of offense. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Beijando Jéssica Stein (Kissing Jessica Stein) "},{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From my point of view this movie resembles a bad example from the Diane Keaton School of Acting. At least Diane Keaton put a little depth into her character unlike the lead actress who besides for her pretty face would not be sought after by men or women.One snippet of dialog which I found amusing was when her pregnant colleague asks if the woman she was dating was smart enough for her. Considering the insipid dialog the character was muttering throughout the whole movie, who wouldn't as smart (or smarter)? Someone who has suffered brain damage? The movie did not have anything identifiable so that the humor could really ring true. Everything was too contrived, and that isn't funny. Woody Allen has a similar writing style but he presents the situations in ways where the audience can relate and have a good laugh because his films point out out our true foibles. "},{"Title":"My Tall Slim Jewish Lesbian Wedding","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Guys I've got to confess that my motivation for watching this movie was not for the purest of reasons . I'd seen the photo of Jennifer Westfeldt on her IMDb profile page and thought she was very pretty . So pretty in fact that I was looking forward to seeing her take part in some girl on girl action in KISSING JESSICA STIEN so imagine my disappointment that there's no explicit lesbian love making in this movie . I shouldn't complain since this type of voyeurism should exclude someone from being a serious movie critic so I'll confine my criticisms to a non sexual criteria KISSING JESSICA STIEN is an independent film and like many independent films it's quirky and character driven but it's maybe a bit too character driven and has little in the way of commercial appeal . Seeing as the thin plot revolves around a Jewish twenty something single girl embarking on a bi-curious relationship with another girl there's not much world wide appeal though you do get the feeling that the screenwriters ( Who are also the stars ) are going all out to appeal to fans of FRIENDS . Likewise you also get the feeling they're trying too hard to appeal to women in general hence the amount of girlie chat scenes . In other words the movie is centered towards woman in general and because they're trying too hard the film fails because of this . If you're a hetrosexual man and ironically a gay woman you'll probably dislike KISSING JESSICA STIEN "},{"Title":"Annie Hall without the charm or wit","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  More like Annie Hall the shrill, annoying, lesbian version. There is a big difference in being funny and in TRYING WAY TOO HARD to be funny. The film has good production values & the acting isn't half bad but the whole Jewish stick has been done better in many more movies. As for the lesbian thing - it reminded me too much of the Ellen DeGenerate/Anne Heche fiasco - what a mess.   "},{"Title":"How's the sex?","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That's the line uttered by a an unbearably obnoxious female (?) character who just discovered that her friend is a lesbian. I think that sums up what's wrong with this movie.Even more ridiculously, the friend says the sex is great, and the obnoxious supposedly-female character asks, really?, to which the friend affirms.That was so implausible and so stupid, I was in tears of laughter. Because if I one day I discover that my best ostensibly-straight friend is gay, the first thing I'll ask is Wow you're gay Bob? So how's the sex? Bob Oh it's great! Me Really? Bob Oh yeah absolutely! You should come watch us some time! Man I'm so glad you're so cool about this! The movie has its smart and funny moments, but come on, it jumped the shark right there. "},{"Title":"Lesbian, but not Übermensch","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One thing you learn from comedies is that we are all ridiculous sometimes. There is one exception however and that is the lesbians, who usually are serious, completely without irony about themselves and therefore very, very dull. In films the message have always been kind of Never laugh at the lesbians, because their lives are much more exciting than yours.This isn't the thing in Kissing Jessica Stein. It's a charming story about two girls who are very human, make mistakes and find that having a relation with each other wasn't the ultimate thing. One gets a little tired of the standard jokes about the always dominating Jewish mother, but it doesn't stop the movie from being warm and about everyday people, although not everyone of us has such experiences.      "}]