[{"Title":"Gripping despite being overly familiar","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"55 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a hard-nosed cop investigating an apparently motiveless murder, and appearing to unravel as she does so, Sandra Bullock does something approximating to real acting in Barbet Schroeder's overly familiar thriller. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt play a couple of high school kids who commit a Loeb/Leopold style crime, planting a number of false 'clues' so that the police will build up a picture of the killer. They even have a suspect lined up. Of course, the one thing they didn't bank on was Bullock's chip-on-the-shoulder uberbitch detective.Schroeder does not build his film visually. It has a conventional TV movie feel to it and, despite being well played, Pitt's nerdy all-knowing geek is a bit too formulaic. But the film holds you nevertheless. Schroeder displays a storyteller's gift for how things should develop, (though a subplot involving an earlier violent event in Bullock's life seems like an unnecessary intrusion). And as the cock-of-the-walk arrogant yet vulnerable rich kid killer Ryan Gosling is the real McCoy. He can convey charm and menace in equal measure and often in the same moment and confirms his status as one of the best young actors in movies at the minute. "},{"Title":"By the Numbers","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Barbet Schroeder's Murder by Numbers starring Sandra Bullock is solid work, though not particularly compelling. I am a big Sandra Bullock fan, and she is effective here as forensic detective Cassie Mayweather, who is not very likable and a broken person too. However, there is a sense of detachment inherent in the story structure. It's about the perfect murder executed by two spoiled sociopath teenagers, Richard (Ryan Gusling) who is the cool one, and Justin ( Michael Pitt) who is the sympathetic geek. Basically, Richard and Justin kill a young woman, because they have nothing better to do on a school night. They are very smart and very arrogant which is normally not a bad thing, but it just doesn't work here. Tony Gayton's script does a great job of detailing the investigation of a puzzling murder, and it is truly by the numbers. We have these two punk kids flaunting their superiority, and we just want them to take a fall. This is not a great exploration into the dark side, like Schroeder's Reversal of Fortune about Claus von Bulow. There are interesting turns in Numbers. The movie is not so much a thriller, but rather a character study of Cassie. Sandra Bullock balances the bravado of Cassie, her fear of letting people get in with her, and her secret past. Bullock brings courage and strength to a suffering character. Her partner and sort of love interest, Sam (played by Ben Chaplin), is more a plot unconcealing than a real character. Though Chaplin does the bewilderment thing very admirably. The other nice touch is having Richard and Justin involved a strange sexual attraction. The most interesting thing about Numbers are Pitt and Gusling. There are many entertaining twists and turns throughout the movie. Everything is done very competently. I saw the movie about a week ago, and in retrospect I like it a little more than I did when I saw it. However, it is just not inspired work. Sandra Bullock and Barbet Schroeder deserve a lot better, and so do we. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching Despite Irksome Plotting","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"33 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two rich, bored high school boys (Justin and Richard) enter into a demonic pact, which leads to a battle of wits between them and a smart, determined female detective (Cassie) who is haunted by her own demons. The film's underlying premise is certainly relevant to contemporary American culture, but the story is poorly plotted. The POV keeps shifting back and forth between the two boys and Cassie.I was not interested in Cassie's tortured past, nor did I care about her relationship with her assistant, Sam. These plot points interfered with the more compelling story of two young men hypnotized by the philosophy of crime.Indeed, the film works when it focuses on Justin and Richard, and their efforts to second-guess, initially the cops and then later, each other. Michael Pitt (as Justin) gives an adequate performance, and Ryan Gosling (as Richard) is more than convincing. I would have reduced the time spent on Cassie and Sam, and added some back story about Justin and Richard to give viewers more insight into the boys' motivation.The film's visuals are adequate. There's some good camera work in the film's first and last twenty minutes. In keeping with the film's many cinematic clichés, the climax is a melodramatic cliffhanger ... so to speak. Still, the suspense was gripping. It kept me guessing as to who was going to do what to whom.Despite a convoluted and, at times, confusing plot, Murder By Numbers is worth watching for its provocative premise, its suspense, and the acting of Ryan Gosling. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cliche, and the kids get all the good scenes","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I predicted too many things in this movie and the only thing that kept my interest were the two young actors playing teenagers.  They seemed to have the stronger and by far, more interesting scenes. They definitely seemed to have more to do than our star, Sandra Bullock.Bullock always plays this independent character that lives alone and has predictable back story issues.  I would like to see her do something a little more challenging.Not bad, just not great. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Very decent even if flawed","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When the dead body of a woman is found in the woods near the river, feisty homicide detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and her new partner, Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin) are assigned to the case. Determined to solve the crime, Mayweather follows her hunches and microscopic bits of evidence, focusing her investigation on two teens Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt), a brilliant, misunderstood nerd, and Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling), a smooth talking, spoiled rich kid. From the beginning, the audience knows that this unlikely duo has formed a secret bond that pushes the boundaries of morality and the law in their attempt to commit the perfect murder and experience complete freedom. It's up to Mayweather, who buries herself in her work in an attempt to forget her own tormented past, and Kennedy, a transfer from Vice who is working his first homicide case, to ignore the stereotypical profiles and see past the obvious in order to solve the crime.Murder by Numbers is an interesting and entertaining small little thriller that doesn't excel but never disappoints either. The film is gripping, engaging and has this somewhat mysterious atmosphere that creates quite a bit of tension. The story does have some small plot holes but nothing that will ruin the film. Gosling delivered a great performance as usual and I can see why he felt attracted to his project, the film ends up being more of a character study then a thriller often reflecting on the human nature. Michael Pitt was excellent as the ostracized teenager and Sandra Bullock (who also served as producer) did OK as the seasoned detective Cassie Mayweather. What really threw me off and dragged the film down was not so much Bullock's performance but the way her character was written and her past story. It was extremely cliché and contrived. Still, I was entertained by what I think is, a decent and well acted thriller.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining Run of the Mill Thriller","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) is a homicide detective with a disturbing past, she and her partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin) are called in to investigate the murder of a young woman found abandoned in a ditch. When everything seems to point at the killer, Cassie's gut tells her that things are not quite as they appear, and the real killers find that they can't hide as easily as they first thought.Murder by numbers does have some good intrigue and suspense in the plot, and yes it does try very hard to do something a fresh and different, but in the end it just seems pretty run of the mill.6/10 It entertains and it does have a good cast, but its just not quite sharp enough on the details. "},{"Title":"The numbers don't really add up","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's a swell thriller a reasonably sophisticated plot, with some neat twists and turns, good camera work, and a kind of satisfactory ending. But just as with the murder story in question, the flaws become apparent at closer examination.Most important, the characters are not sufficiently presented and explained. The deadly duet shows a very close relation, but not what keeps it so close. It would be easy enough to understand, if they were lovers. Then their quarrel over a girl also makes sense. Since they are not - as far as the movie shows us - their relation remains a mystery.The same, to a lesser extent, is true about the detective duet. Bullock is not really able to convince with her tough exterior to hide inner wounds, although that should be easy for an actor of her experience, and her male colleague gets no room in the film to show us why he stands her, after what she puts him through the very first days they work together.Although it's mainly a thriller, I guess this movie would have needed some additional efforts on the drama of it, the emotional processes included in it. Maybe it's all too logical - like numbers. "},{"Title":"Murder By The Book...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's something frustrating about watching a movie like 'Murder By Numers' because somewhere inside that Hollywood formula is a good movie trying to pop out. However, by the time the credits roll, there's no saving it. The whole thing is pretty much blown by the cop side of the story, where Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin's homicide detective characters muddle through an awkward sexual affair that becomes more and more trivialized the longer the movie goes on. Although Bullock is strong in her role, it's not enough to save the lackluster script and lazy pacing. Ben Chaplin's talents are wasted in a forgettable role (he did much better earlier in the year in the underrated 'Birthday Girl') as well as Chris Penn, who has a role so thanklessly small you feel sorry for a talent like him. Anyway, the plot really isn't even a factor in this movie at all. The two teen killers played by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt are the only real reasons to see this movie. Their talent and chemistry work pretty good and they play off of each other quite well. It's too bad they weren't in a much better all-around film. Barbet Schroeder is treading way too safe ground here for such a seasoned filmmaker. Bottom Line it's worth a rent if you're a genre fan, but everyone else will live a fulfilled life without ever seeing it, except maybe on network TV with convenient commercial breaks. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can get very tired of murder mysteries with the exception of a few really excellent TV series. Otherwise, there are just too many of these murder plot themes. I don't like the theme of the two over-clever, selfish youths killing as an intellectual exercise, I've no interest whatsoever in Hitchcock who appears to have been associated with this in some way I don't intend to find out about. But don't misunderstand me, the theme is in itself excellent, the whole movie is so well done, and of course Sandra Bullock is superlative as always. Sandra's character is (as in Miss Congeniality) not rated by the male team she works with in spite of her obvious skills, and the boss mostly ignores her ideas, eventually forcing her aside and giving the case to her male partner. Of course Sandra works out what's going on and nearly gets killed in a very dramatic denouement. It's intriguing how the boy who worked out the murder plot can't allow her to be killed by his colleague - he has a conscience of some sort and perhaps could be saved, while the other is a true psychopath.Sandra's hard shell is caused by misery in her past that's tied in poignantly with the murder case. Her colleague, realising that Sandra's solving this case in spite of being balked by the dense superior, finally discovers what happened to Sandra herself in her teens, that she must now face up to and exorcise and the last scene shows her starting - we hope anyway - to do just that. I can see from the few other reviews I've had time to read that this movie would attract a broadish group - those interested in the two spoilt boys whiling away their time with their grisly philosophical determination to trick the police and get away with the perfect murder, the relationship between them that's so cleverly depicted, the ghastly links to the heroine's past, a police theme, and some smokes and mirrors - as well as for Hitchcock fans.For those who've queried why Bullock's character has to have a problematic past, really I think this would be a far less interesting movie if she had been just a detective trying to fathom what was going on, with a willing sidekick helping out and a male-chauvinist boss. The link between the murder victim and the detective is necessary to show the detective becoming too involved or otherwise how would she lose her arrogant boss's confidence and thereby nearly lose her life? That's hardly an original theme, in fact it's usually an extremely irritating theme as this male chauvinist boss brutally tells his frustrated but obviously inspired operative to get off the case and leave it to someone who clearly doesn't have quite the skills to solve it nice though the sidekick is. I was getting very worried towards the end re what might happen to Sandra's character as her emotional involvement in the case and special sympathy for the unfortunate victim of the crime dangerously drove her on with this case by herself.I wasn't disappointed re the relationship between Bullock's character and her sidekick. That goes along interestingly and at times very poignantly.The relationship between the two boys is definitely intriguing, if that's what you were interested in watching. I felt it was kept low key in some ways either because the movie-makers didn't want to get into boy-boy friendships too much, or because we weren't supposed to think emotion ruled their relationship. The movie cleverly makes you wonder which boy's in charge of the situation and there are some twists and turns and the boys show their underlying immaturity at various stages.There one thing I wish had been clarified and that's what happens after the movie ends when Sandra's character arrives at the Court.... you need to see to movie to know why she's there.Very well acted by all. I certainly can't agree with those who complained against Bullock's acting - she was superb. The part suited her very well indeed. The story is gripping even if murder mysteries aren't your thing and they aren't that often mine. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, fascinating, compelling... (*spoilers*)","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so I've read most of the reviews on this movie, as well as comments left by visitors to this site, and the feeling I get is that most people who wrote reviews really didn't like this movie.  That's why I'm writing now-I represent the minority because, I did.  I admit, I went to see the movie because I am very impressed with Ryan Gosling's compelling abilities, and the projects he has been a part of lately have been nothing less than incredible.  He is an amazing actor. That aside, I wanted to see this movie because it seemed intriguing to me... why?  Because it's a whodunit where you know `whodunit' from the start, and that's kind of unusual.As the plot goes, two teenage boys endeavour to commit the perfect crime because they believe in a twisted philosophy that only through committing acts of crime are human beings truly free-the uninhibited, and let's remember, guiltless, acting out of one's will.  The relationship between Richard and Justin was complex, hinted at homosexuality, and was brilliantly acted by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt.  Gosling was the manipulating, controlling smooth-talker, and Pitt was the extremely book-smart, socially awkward outcast.  Enter Sandra Bullock's character, who it seems most people didn't particularly appreciate.  I think when people see she was the executive producer they automatically assume any role the actor has in it is a self-glorification thing.  I didn't see that as the case here.  Without Cassie's personal history about the ex-husband that nearly killed her, who, not surprisingly, shared similar traits with Richard Hayward, she never would have pursued her instincts about Justin and Richard.  The case was seemingly airtight against Ray, the unsuspecting school janitor and friend of the boys.  Even when the boys are questioned near the end of the movie neither Bullock nor her partner have much solid evidence about them other than the fact that they lied about knowing each other, and the vomit Justin left at the sight.  Therein lay the genius of the movie because the philosophy the boys were trying to prove through the act of killing, the guiltless acting out of will as `true freedom,' ended up working against Justin, who ended up having a conscience after all (and ended up leaving part of his conscience at the body dump site).  Without that crucial piece of evidence, they almost had a murder by numbers.  And to readers out there who have puzzled over the title as much as I have, I looked in to it and found that something done by numbers (such as a painting) suggests careful and critical planning and exacting.  There's also a song by Sting called Murder By Numbers, but that's beside the point. )Many readers questioned the necessity of the relationship between Cassie and her partner, but I think it really meant to show how cynical and manipulative she had become because of her history.  Like it or not, her history does play an important role in this movie because without it, she would likely have never followed her instincts about Justin and Richard. Yes, it was a bit of the cliche `women scorned, woman acting out vendetta in every facet of her life' plot, but I think without the depth of Cassie's character you have just another movie about teenage killers, and they just may have gotten away with it.  There's no movie there.And to the reader who commented that the teenagers obviously didn't commit the perfect crime because the police were on to them from the beginning, can I remind you that the reason was because of the purposely placed, and totally traceable shoe prints.  The boys wanted to be involved-it was a game.  They were so confident that they had committed the perfect crime that they wanted to see first hand the difficulty the investigators would have in uncovering what they think is the truth.  What they didn't expect was that Cassie Mayweather had an overactive case of instinct working on her side. A little unbelievable?  Maybe.  But many crimes have been solved by police officers who have followed their instincts.  However, this is a MOVIE!I saw this movie in theatres about three times, and each time it revealed a little more to me, and I liked it a little more.  The more I watched it, the more I was captivated and frightened by the psychological depth Richard Hayward-there are people really like this.  My main complaint about the movie would be that they should have had Justin and Richard's interactions a little more central (because, let's face it, there lays the intrigue in the entire film) and my main props go to characterization-each character was very distinct and interesting in his/her own way.  It was very well acted, although I would have given Ben Chaplin's character a little more depth to work with (he's a good actor) and maybe pared down Bullock's character a smidgen.I think everyone should keep in mind that for a Hitchcock type thriller like this to basically tell you the whodunit at the beginning, it poses a very big challenge for the writers to keep the attention of the audience until the very end.  I think they did so quite well by utilizing a few small plot twists throughout, slow revelation of the different character dynamics, and by lighting up the screen with some really emotionally charged performances by the young actors Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt.  I think if we remove our innate cynicism and attempt to see how psychologically complex the characters and their interactions are, we may be able to look beyond any apparent plot holes and see the real texture and quality of this movie, if only in the characters who were brilliantly portrayed.  Especially Richard Hayward.  Not that I'm biassed. ) "}{"Title":"Murder to watch. But Sandra, I still love you!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is exactly what Hollywood does badly. Very Badly. Typically awful who-dunnit featuring more bluffs and double bluffs than you could shake a stick at. This movie is up there with horrendous plotless rambles like Copycat, Along Came A Spider and even Kiss the Girls. Horrendous in that it is possible to work out just about every plot detail in the first 25 minutes. The constant twists and surprises are tedious to say the least.Don't get me wrong I like Sandra Bullock but when is she going to get a role that truly makes her shine. She seems to manage to choose the wrong movies time after time. I think she should maybe look to more comedy roles as I feel some of her best parts have been in films like Demolision Man and even last years Miss Congeniality wasn't too bad (ok it was was that bad but not as bad as Murder By Numbers). Michael Pitt on the other hand is awesome. I saw him in Bully not so long ago in which he was fantastic and also last years Hedwig and the Angry Inch. He does evil particularly well. I think he could be destined for very great things.   And what the hell is Chris Penn doing in this tripe?! Nice guy Eddie is far better than this!   It was worth going to see this movie just for the guys walking around in the Slipknot costumes whenever they were going to murder someone.On the whole this film was very poor, it scores only a ** out of ***** on the Meejoir-meter. But if Sandra Bullock is reading this, I still love you!  "},{"Title":"A Random Murder, Secret Friends & A Troubled Cop","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A random murder, a secret friendship and a detective with an attitude problem are just three of the interesting ingredients of this absorbing psychological thriller. Murder By Numbers entertains and intrigues its audience, not by posing the question who did it? but instead by following the progress of a detective's search for the evidence she needs to support her theory about who was responsible for committing a brutal murder. The fact that her task is made more difficult by her personal demons, her clever adversaries and obstacles created by her superiors, only makes things more difficult and adds to the story's already tense atmosphere.Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) and Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt) are a couple of high school seniors who, despite their very different personalities, are secretly close friends. They meet regularly at a deserted house overlooking the ocean, drink absinthe and are excited by the idea of carrying out the perfect murder as a means of proving their superiority over the police. They're both from rich families, very bright but also bored and the closeness of their bond is symbolised by the presence of a photograph which is actually a composite of photos of both of them.By having no apparent relationship with each other, selecting a random victim and planting misleading evidence at the site where the body's found, Richard and Justin succeed in concealing their own connection with the murder of a young woman and also ensure that the school janitor, Ray Feathers (Chris Penn) appears to be the culprit. Richard subsequently shoots the janitor in a manner that makes it appear that Feathers had, in fact, committed suicide.Experienced homicide detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) is assigned to the case together with her new partner, Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin). When her investigation brings her into contact with Richard, her instincts immediately tell her that there's something suspicious about him but she's prevented from pursuing her interest in his connection with the crime by the intervention of Captain Rod Cody (R.D. Call) who takes her off the case.Cassie's a troubled character who still bears the physical and psychological scars of a traumatic incident in her past and tries to find solace in casual sex, drinking alone and listening to Sheryl Crow songs on her houseboat. She has an unpleasant personality, a reputation for being difficult to work with and a history of not following the rules and so her determination to follow her instincts and ignore the instructions of her superiors is regarded as reprehensible by everyone involved, including her partner. Soon after, however, Cassie sees Richard and Justin together and becomes even more convinced that she's on the right track.The two detectives in Murder By Numbers are so different from each other that they make an uncomfortable partnership. From the dramatic standpoint however, their juxtaposition is very effective in highlighting how mismatched they are. Sam Kennedy is a decent guy who's well-trained and methodical but also too inexperienced to have developed the instincts that Cassie possesses or to have acquired the kind of insight that enables an investigator to see beyond what the evidence superficially seems to show. Ben Chaplin and Sandra Bullock both make their characters believable and their interactions are important to the development of the story. Inevitably though, it's the performances of Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt that stand out most as they make their characters both fascinating and disturbing and show convincingly how Richard and Julian's personalities complement each other.Justin is the movie's most interesting character because his brilliance enabled him to acquire the expert knowledge of forensics and police profiling which was vital for attempting to carry out the perfect murder and also his preoccupation with Nietzsche's doctrine of the superman was a key component of the motivation for the crime.Murder By Numbers is strong on atmosphere, rich in complex characters and entertaining in the way in which the investigation of the murder develops. "},{"Title":"Well executed formulaistic movie.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical soft spoken rental movie for an slow sunday afternoon with your boyfriend/girlfriend )It does all the standard moves according to the crime/suspense genre when the detective, (the miscast Sandra Bullock) and her partner  tries to capture the two killers, both rich and blasé but highly intelligent school kids.The scenes in the film are well managed, all the angles correct as we slowly learn how the murder was done. Thankfully, this movie does not contain the ordinary huge fireworks/special FX/audio FX  budget.  And there is no need for such audio/visual effects either.But why must1) The detective be tortured by his/her past?2) The storyline use the most predictable path?3) The detective/protagonist alienate the freshman partner, and have a boss that misunderstands her?4) The protagonist always face danger without backup?5) The protagonist risk her job due to zealousness?There are many more examples but you can find out  yourselves if you have a couple of hours to spend watching this movie. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Totally Predictable and Boring","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So, I'm wondering while watching this film, did the producers of this movie get to save money on Sandra Bullock's wardrobe by dragging out her before clothes from Miss Congeniality? Did Ms. Bullock also get to sleepwalk through the role by channeling the before Gracie Hart? As many reviewers have noted before, the film is very formulaic. Add to that the deja vu viewer experiences with the character of Cassie Maywether as a somewhat darker Gracie Hart with more back story and it rapidly become a snooze fest.The two bad boy serial killers have been done before (and better) in other films. As has the good guy partner trying to protect his partner despite the evidence character been seen before. In fact none of the characters in the film ever get beyond two dimensions or try to be anything but trite stereotypes.One last peeve - using the term serial killer is false advertising. Murdering one person - even if it's a premeditated murder - does not make you a serial killer. You may have the potential to become a serial killer but you are not a serial killer or even a spree killer. "},{"Title":"All Planned Out.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder by Numbers (2002) Dir Barbet Schroeder / Cast Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin, Ryan Gosling, Michael Pitt, Chris Penn Clever psychological thriller about the planning and dispatching of murder. The killers in question are two high school students who are at the top of their education yet they share a bond that has them kidnap a young woman. Her body is found the following day and Sandra Bullock is assigned to the case along with her by-the-book partner played by Ben Chaplin. She is known for her instincts in solving cases but she is burdened by a past incident. Effective and provocative setup travels by formula until it hits a surprising conclusion. Director Barbet Schroeder details the film with information. He previously made another superb thriller called Single White Female. Excellent work by Bullock as a troubled police woman who ultimately brings down the case with grim discoveries. Chaplin is merely there for romantic possibilities in a role that is complete cardboard. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt steal the film as the teenage suspects whose highlights comes at the conclusion where information takes an interesting turn and in unexpected ways. Chris Penn also shows up but he has been more interesting in other films. Well made thriller that tackles issues regarding teenagers and media influence that seem to be increasing by the numbers. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Anything with Sandy always gets my attention!","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It amazes me how writers continue to come up with interesting and different plots for thrillers and Murder By Numbers is no exception. I suppose we, the viewers, are bound to get involved with the story - I know I do. Like are there actual people like Richard (Ryan Gosling) and Justin (Michael Pitt) out there somewhere who see getting away with the most heinous crime of all as just the ultimate challenge? If there are - and I believe there are - then how do they overcome the urges that drive them? And, when they don't, unless there is a cop like Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock), how do they ever get caught? And then, when they don't get caught because their decoy - in this case, Ray Feathers (Sean Penn's lesser-known brother Chris) - is dead and cannot be cross-examined, where are they now? Do they live next door? Are they the guy at the next desk or machine where you work or the rich kid in your class at school?Money isn't always a blessing. Especially when all it does is cause the sort of boredom that drives a person to psychosis like that portrayed in this movie.Not a movie I would recommend to a nervous girl to watch alone. She could just end up a paranoiac who is scared to go out, even in broad daylight.Who's watching you right now? And, even more to the point, why? OK, I think you need to go and check your mailbox now girls. Sweet dreams. "},{"Title":"Enough To Be An Entertaining Feature","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder by Numbers is a psychological thriller that stars Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin, Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt.It is about the investigation of the body of a young woman is found in a ditch in the woods of the small California coastal town of San Benito.It was directed by Barbet Schroeder. High school ladies' man Richard Haywood and outcast Justin Pendleton have no motive to commit murder, but they soon conspire to choose a random victim and pin the crime on local pot dealer Ray, under the guise that the police will never suspect them of such a brutal act.A determined detective,Cassie Merriweather is assigned to the case, and quickly becomes suspicious of the elusive teens despite the doubts expressed by her superiors and her lack of solid evidence. Soon entering into a dangerous test of wills with the increasingly desperate and dangerous teens, her investigation leads her down a disturbing path that will test her skills as a detective and her will to survive.The script of the movie may be familiar, but the filmmakers and Bullock do an expert job of filling in the colors.The performances are solid and the plot is intriguing, but director Schroeder allows the action to drag too often. A satisfying twist ending spices things up enough to become an entertaining feature. "},{"Title":"Leopold and Loeb and Ted and Alice","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  All the elements are there Two privileged teens with a latent homosexual relationship commit murder for the thrill of it, and to see if they can outsmart the law.  That's L&L, as told in Compulsion, Rope, Swoon and who knows what else.  Add in an angst-ridden investigator (could still be Rope), make her a small-town detective with a sordid past that she's trying to escape, and throw in her green partner, with whom she has an uneasy, sometimes sexual relationship, and give their relationship some heavy-handed subtext as well.  Any cliches jumping out at you yet?  All it needs is for the boys to have neglectful parents and for the detectives to have a commander who wants them off the case and, oh, wait, we've got that, too!People tell me I'm too critical of today's movies.  I say filmgoers aren't critical enough.  I still love movies, even some Hollywood output, but I really hate it when I can watch a movie and, without even thinking much about it, recite the high concept pitch that the writers or producers or whoever made to the studio exec.  This is the tenth movie I've seen in 2002 that's been that easy, and the message it sends is that no one in Hollywood is even bother to THINK anymore, much less be creative.  And Barbet Schroeder, God bless him, was at one time a genuinely creative director, turning Reversal of Fortune from a bland rehash of a story, to which everyone knew the ending, that had flooded the media a few years prior, into a compelling character study by making it just that.  Murder by Numbers, on the other hand, is a by-the-numbers character study with even its subtext having been co-opted from countless films noirs and 60s and 70s psychological drama/mysteries like Peeping Tom and Klute.Even Sandy as a cop was much more convincing as her typecast lovable klutz makes good character in Miss Congeniality.  She still shows promise as a dramatic actress, but she hasn't realized it yet.  The teens are appropriately intense, but despite all the claims the film makes, they're really not that bright, and experienced homicide cops would definitely be smarter than they are here.  In this way, the film even manages to co-opt from 80s and 90s teen farces.Basically, there's nothing new here.  And if the celluloid flophouses want four times as much as they did 20 years ago for me to sit my ass in their chairs, they better be prepared to offer more than a rehash of the same stuff I watched back then. "},{"Title":"A murder of a movie","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bullock tries to play the hurt cop, but failes badly. The two teens does well but becomes all to cliche in the end. The storie as many hollywood stories fall apart in the end. And it leaves the viewer, with a feeling of wasting allmost 2 hours. "},{"Title":"Ick","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So i saw a few previews for this movie and i actually started to get intrigued by the movie.  Something about it just stood out. Maybe it was the screaming baboon, maybe it was the more-than-likely ugly story and terrible acting, maybe it was something else.  And lo and behold, i come home one night and my roommates' had rented the movie from blockbuster.  And after watching the movie, from start to finish, i was absolutely astonished at how horrible the movie was.  Watchable, but terrifying only in its inept ability to be a really tense thriller.  Ryan Gosling was decent, but his role would fit better in a play written by a high school student.  the other kid looked like a girl. Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin were simply less than.  And the screaming baboon took away any shred of seriousness residing in the movie... that and the hundred or so plot twists.  Ugh.  what awful writing and what an awful movie.    "}{"Title":"A little disappointed","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is best when she plays Sandra Bullock. When she tries to be serious she never quite pulls it off. I wasn't either happy or disappointed with this flick. Somewhere it just unraveled. I've seen several movies like this where teens plot to kill for fun. I found the police investigation silly. Somewhere the editors must have decided the film was too long and cut out a large section of the investigation. The police went from close to baffled and looking in the wrong direction to placing two relatively unknown kids as the prime suspects. What led to this decision? Maybe I fell asleep during that part, but wouldn't you need some kind of evidence to lead you there? It had it's moments. The actual police investigation was clever. Bullock's past life which shapes her present was presented in such a quick manner that they could have left all of it off, as it really had nothing to do with the main plot. I always judge whether I like a movie by whether I would see it again. Not this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A murder without mobile, many things left un-explained, poor acting, and a final without any surprise... I was rather disappointed by the lack of surprise of the scenario.Yet another teen-thrill movie I know what you did ...-like. But with this one, you'll never really get caught / surprised by the plot. "},{"Title":"No perfect murder, no perfect film, guilty","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Is it possible to plan and commit the perfect murder? Probably not, if you remember the many, many criminals, who tried it promising, but in vain against Inspector `Columbo'.  In comparison, Richard and Justin, two bored upper-class kids, seem to be real orphans. And that's the main problem. This one failure, the little, but deciding hint at the crime scene and the audience know at an early stage, the both will pay for it. The only open question was, who executed the final step. What remains?   A piece of `Columbo', some scenes of `CSI', a bit `Hannibal` and tracks of `Cruel Intentions' lead into a mixture not uneatable, but somehow disappointing. Director Barbet Schroeder attracts the visitor and let him die of hunger, cruelly.  The pattern of the known offender holds a great danger, this shows here play and conflict with the policy must be very fascinating. Ryan Gosling exaggerates his portrayal of a High-School-Kid only seeming mysterious, making this one ridiculous from time to time. But he show his talents too and the possibilities given away for a thrilling duel with pal Justin (Michael Pitt) or Bullock. The actress plays (What else?) a fallen angel, rising at the end, unimpressive as Julianne Moore vs. Hopkins. And Ben Chaplin has gone lost in an uninspired script.A bit of all and nothing right.  There could be only one judgment guilty! "},{"Title":"Just average","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just another average thriller. Could have been much better if it hadn't focused too much on Bullock's character. From her first appearance we know that there must have happened something in her past, which haunts her until present. The audience is supposed to be interested in her secret, but I wasn't. Her character fulfilled the stereotype of the lonesome psychic injured cop, but didn't develop any interesting aspects on that. The investigation on the case missed out and therefore the movie was not very enthralling. I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ok, could be better","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was more hyped up then I thought it would be.  I was expecting some thriller like the trailer made it out to be.  I was disappointed, and kept waiting for the movie to be over.  Some parts were good, but I wouldn't see it again. "},{"Title":"another movie with Sandra Bullock","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie because i thought the plot was good and interesting, two teenagers who plan commits a murder to see if they can get away with it. Too bad Sandra Bullock destroys the movie, and above that it is a bad script too that does not hold up to your expectations. Vachon "},{"Title":"Predictable, boring, waste of 2 hours of my life.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie uneventful, predictable and badly acted.  The script was unimpressive and lacking in ingenuity.  I was disappointed and found the trailer to be the highlight of the film. Although Sandra Bullock is always pleasant to watch, she was not given much to work with.   "},{"Title":"Movie By Numbers equals sheer tedium","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  NO REAL SPOILERSWhat is it about wealthy, stylish, educated, white males with superiority complexes?  In the movies doesn't it always seem that they are either gay or homicidal or in many cases, both.  What is it about a tough as nails, unsympathetic, pretty but plain, dressed down police woman who is desperately trying to be taken seriously in a frustratingly male dominated world?   In the movies doesn't it always seem that these women are painfully unhappy and distant not being allowed to be traditionally feminine and forced to act butch?  What is it about reserved, brilliant, handsome-in-a-nerd-sort-of-way, docile, Rookie cops who get paired with a tough as nails rogue cop and a tough as nails first case?   In the movies doesn't it seem that these guys put up with WAY too much crap and remain WAY too wise - this being a new job, assignment, and partner?    Clearly, this is 'by the numbers' filmmaking.In Murder By Numbers two rich, white, privileged boys - the brooding 'goth' genius Justin (Michael Pitt - complete with Molly Ringwald's misunderstood dramatic over-bite and a Robert Smith influenced goth-flip hair-do) and his hip tough-guy teen buddy, Richard (Ryan Gossling - a glib, blonde highlighted, clothes horse with a bombastic streak that the audience is supposed to find scary and seductive) are so bored in rich San Diego UBER-SUBURBIA that they plan a murder in perfect detail - just for the hell of it.   After several overwritten, dramatic meetings in a creepy abandoned lodge on the cliffs high above the Pacific, where they drink Absinthe to show their 'edginess',  talk superior murder plans, and avoid each other's obvious homoerotic desires, the boys carry out the plan.   Enter Homicide detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock)  a rigid, uptight 'lady cop with a past' who, in spite of all the genitalia jokes supplied by her colleagues,  is a brilliant sleuth.   Cassie's  new partner, Sam (Ben Chaplin) fresh from detective school can't resist her charms nor her rogue mentality on the job.  For the rookie detective - this tough girl who analyzes bloody photos for clues is his dream date.  The two cops question our boys, even though the murder has been  expertly pinned on high school janitor - the impossibly hoggish trailer trash, porno eyed, drug dealer, Ray (Chris Penn).   Tensions brew, Cassie and Sam have a cheap affair, the boys get nervous, and all roads eventually lead to a final return to the creepy abandoned cliff-top lodge where bad dialogue, plot twists, and performers are thrown around as we reach a tiresome and obvious climax.These cardboard cut-out characters and 'by the numbers' narrative inhabit the crime-television inspired world of Murder By Numbers which might be more aptly named MOVIE by Numbers. There's so little surprise in this overblown episode of CSI or more aptly Murder She Wrote, that it's a wonder respected director Barbet Schroeder was involved (although, I suppose everyone has bills to pay).   Sandra Bullock continues to try to break the mold of the attractive ingenue but fails again.   She's really not at home playing someone who has no real emotional life.   She's committed to the work and tries hard to use it's cliches - meaning she spends a lot of time brooding with flashbacks to her tragic past and throwing back J&B shots when she feels she needs to be tough.  It's a mannered, unbelievable performance from a likeable performer who is simply miscast.  (I've heard that Ms. Bullock co-produced this mess, clearly her self awareness is as far out of control as Chris Penn's agent whom he should fire at once!)The other characters don't fare much better.   There's been a lot of pointless ink spilled over the casting of Gosling who I found rather tedious and smirky.   It's a silly role and he's silly in it.   Michael Pitt as the fey silent boy is a muddled mess of glassy eyes and self depreciating witticism.   Ben Chaplin walks through the role of the eager rookie who is dutifully supportive of his 'rogue' partner when the crusty police chief tries to shut her investigation down.  Yawn.   Chaplin does have a few moments of awkward comedy as he demands to be taken seriously and won't be kept around by Bullock as a mere sex toy!!?If you are in the mood for a slacker revamp of the Leopold and Loeb case you might enjoy this really routine, forgettable and often pointless yarn. Better yet, try renting Rope, Compulsion, or even Swoon which all base their narratives on the famous L&L kidnap and murder case.   While Murder By Numbers isn't the worst film of its kind - IT IS slow, overwrought and obvious.  There's very little new here and any thrills one might get have more to do with what could have been done with this idea than what is actually up there. "},{"Title":"Lamest Sandra flick yet","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cliche tough girl cop in the first 2 minutes set the tone for the predictability of the remainder of the movie--this was exemplified when, in a poorly acted moment, she told a uniformed officer to get out of the crime scene.  The movie never recovers after this scene.Allow me to point out only a few of many serious flaws a) when Richard attacked Cassie in her car, a tough female officer would have busted his butt--it didn't happen, b) did Lisa really have Cassie's phone number memorized? c) when Cassie's boss grabbed her by the arm and dragged her out, a severe reaction from Cassie was absent.Careless lack of realism ruins credibility.This was not a Sandra Bullock film. Angelina Jolie maybe, but not Bullock. A great fit for Bullock was her geeky FBI agent role-to-babe in Miss Congeniality. Sandra isn't to blame for this flop. The film was directed horribly, mistakes were made that shattered any attempt at suspense, and the build up at the end fails to grab. "},{"Title":"Oh Sandra, What are have you done?","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy Sandra Bullock. I think she is a fine actress with a lot of potential. I also really like murder mysteries. So it was with anticipation that I went to see this film, and boy was I disappointed. There is nothing original about the movie, the focus seems lacking and the characters seem contrived and shallow. A completely predictable plot line and an FBI agent who is stuck in the past. The only reason I give this movie a 2 instead of a 1 is because Bullock does seem to be working hard, and she is easy to look at.  "}{"Title":"Murder by Numbers","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From director Barbet Schroder (Reversal of Fortune), I think I saw a bit of this in my Media Studies class, and I recognised the leading actress, so I tried it, despite the rating by the critics. Basically cool kid Richard Haywood (Half Nelson's Ryan Gosling) and Justin Pendleton (Bully's Michael Pitt) team up to murder a random girl to challenge themselves and see if they can get away with it without the police finding them. Investigating the murder is homicide detective Cassie 'The Hyena' Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) with new partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin), who are pretty baffled by the evidence found on the scene, e.g. non-relating hairs. The plan doesn't seem to be completely going well because Cassie and Sam do quite quickly have Richard or Justin as suspects, it is just a question of if they can sway them away. Also starring Agnes Bruckner as Lisa Mills, Chris Penn as Ray Feathers, R.D. Call as Captain Rod Cody and Tom Verica as Asst. D.A. Al Swanson. I can see now the same concept as Sir Alfred Hitchcock's Rope with the murdering for a challenge thing, but this film does it in a very silly way, and not even a reasonably good Bullock can save it from being dull and predictable. Adequate! "},{"Title":"A Thriller With Good Intentions","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder by Numbers stars Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt as two rebellious high schoolers who are content on the perfect murder for the sake of overcoming their shattered self-esteem. Sandra Bullock plays the heroic thorn in the way of their plans as Det. Cassie Mayweather. This is nowhere near the traditional finger-pointing murder mystery as the film graciously reveals the killers to us (Gosling and Pitt). What the film does instead is concentrate on the purposes of their killings and if they have what it takes to commit the perfect murder. The title itself is a rightfully chosen one for various reasons mainly being that the Numbers in the title is the most vocal. The angle focusing on the reasons behind the heinous killings, although will haunt you with its chilling dialogue (especially from the callous boys), it doesn't fully live up exploring the origins of what lead them to their killing frenzy. The characters are riveting you have the good-looking rich kid Richard (Ryan Gosling) and the intelligent but socially awkward Justin (Michael Pitt). In school, they pretend that they despise one another, and even share a liking towards the a classmate name Lisa (Agnes Bruckner), but off-school they are allies and collaborate in a ritual in which murder is an escape to free the mind. Sure the story involving the boys seems exciting, but it's pushed in the background to a more mundane subplot involving Det. Mayweather (Bullock) who assumes their murders was because of discrimination (hence the arrogant looks of Gosling) and unexplained characteristics but manages to get it right. At first, the audience may despise Cassie's character due to the fact she's very headstrong and not very supportive. She displays dominance and control over her junior partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin). Even as he tries to reason with her, he knows it's a battle he surely won't likely win.The reason behind her tyrant behavior stems back in which Cassie was the sad victim of a crime that has left a permanent mental scar on her. This side-story does not have much of a place in this movie partially because it doesn't offer anything riveting with the main plot (the boys' murder spree). It also offers some development to Bullock's character in the movie but it's only a half-assed job and not very fulfilling. I would've liked it if they the diabolical students had a side-story. The resources were right there in front of them for the perfect crime foil, the creative schemes for the boys to manipulate the cops with their phony evidence and lies just to get out of a potential life-sentence in jail.Despite the lopsided sub-plots and the pointless real killer ending, Murder By Numbers sports a strong performance by a great cast. Sandra Bullock was convincing as the tough verbally remorseless cop who tries to shift her inner pain to a more positive light. Ben Chaplin shows his strength as the young detective who tries every way to understand his partner and is able to fend off her occasional tyrannical put-downs. But the scene stealer's are the devilish duo of Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling as they keep you glued to their seat waiting for what they're going to do next. The chemistry of the boys is reminiscent to Matt Damon-Jude Law in The Talented Mr. Ripley. "},{"Title":"Murder of a thriller....","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just half an hour into the movie and it was becoming a stretch. I knew what would happen in the end then and there itself. No matter how perfectly the 2 high-schoolers carried out the murder, erasing every trace of evidence and planting new ones to deliberately throw the investigative team off the track, it just wasn't convincing enough. It was only a matter of time - an hour and a half more in this case - to nab the two after a nail biting and cliff-hanger kind of an end. Predictable stuff. Even though the performances are good, it is unable to hold the story together at all because there isn't one. This is a thriller, a murder mystery, but I never felt being pushed to the edge of my seat anytime while watching it. On one hand, Ryan and Michael go on with their murderous antics while the other track moves back and forth justifying Sandra's tough cookie image and her apparent vulnerable side. I didn't need this if all I wanted was to know about the 2 highly dysfunctional kids. If the movie would have delved into the psyche of these two guys, the nature of their relationship with each other, with others and why exactly such intellectually gifted kids can even think of committing murders out of sheer boredom and just for attracting attention, it would actually have freaked me out. And I would have been glad; because this is how I expect such movies to make me feel. Expectedly, even though the movie can boast of good lead actors, they are not able to hold the movie together because it is the plot that should be doing this and there isn't any here. A real disappointment indeed. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Movie","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   I wanted to see this movie from the very first time that I saw the preview. I visited the website for the movie once a week and watched the preview. I even wanted to see it in the theaters, which unfortunately never happened. Anyways, when I rented the movie, I had high expectations. I wanted to like this movie. Unfortunately, by the time it was over I almost hated it. The movie wasn't too bad at first, I kind of liked the plotting high school kids. The gay undertones between them were disturbing, due in large part to the constant outbursts of my mother who kept asking, Are they gay lovers? when she was not asking if Ryan Gosling's mother drank while pregnant because of how closely his eyes are set. On behalf of my mother, I apologize to Mr. Gosling, and his mother. Overall, the movie was not too bad when it was just a couple of kids trying to get away with murder, they just had to add a strong female detective who becomes suspicious of them for no real reason that I can think of other than that it suits the plot, and the movie goes downward until an ending that I personally hate so very much that it renders the rest of the movie unwatchable. I swore never to watch this movie again just because of that ending, and I have not.  "},{"Title":"Done better before.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An updated version of a theme which has been done before.  While that in and of itself is not bad, this movie doesn't reach the ring like the other inherent and pure evil ones do.  Predictable, ambitious attempt that falls short of the mark.  Not worth sitting through for the tired contrived ending. "},{"Title":"A  good thriller  well produced by Sandra Bullock","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film is enough interesting , though we know who's the killer , the surprises don't fade . The starring Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin try to investigate the woman's murder . It isn't a spoiler to say who's the assassin because since the first frame we understand the reasons and persons execute it .Sandra Bullock interprets a thirty and some years old , spinster , angry and lone police with a terrible past . Ben Chaplin is his couple as an investigator cop who will help her as moral as physically .Both of whom will have to resolve the case and face off two villains , baddies and ominous adolescents  Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling .In the film there are suspense , thriller , drama and a little bit of action and is deal entertaining.Sandra Bullock's performance is excellent , she has the production and of course she obtains the better role . Also Ben Chaplin is well but he's shaded by Bullock.Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling are nice but the first is contained and the second is overacting .The movie will appeal to suspense and emotion lovers.Rating  Good 6,5/7 "},{"Title":"Disappointing and formulaic","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having been pleasantly surprised by Sandra Bullock's performance in Miss Congeniality, I decided to give Murder By Numbers a shot.  While decent in plucky, self-effacing roles, Ms. Bullock's performance in serious roles (see Hope Floats, Speed 2, 28 Days) leave much to be desired.  Her character is at the same time omniscient, confused, and sexually maladjusted (the sub-plot of Sandra's past comes across as needless filler that does little to develop her already shallow character).  The two teenage boys gave decent performances, although their forensics expertise and catch-me-if-can attitude is belied by stupid errors that scream We did it!  Chris Penn as the all-too-obvious suspect is wasted here, as is Ben Chaplin's token partner/love interest character.***Spoilers Ahead*** Mediocre acting aside, the biggest flaws can be traced to a TV-of-the-week plot that never has you totally buying into the murder motives in the first place, and as mentioned, the stupid errors (vomiting up a rare food on the murder scene, an all too convenient and framing of the school janitor, the two boys hanging out together in public, a convenient love interest to cause friction, etc. etc) cause the view to go from being intrigues to being bored and disappointed by the murderers.  The ending was strictly By the Numbers and was probably the most disappointing aspect of the movie.  Using the now-cliched tactic of almost showing the climactic scene at the beginning of the film, and then filling the audience in how we arrived at that moment, the final scenes surprise no one and lacked any of the so-called intelligence the film purported to arrive at it's conclusion. A somewhat promising concept, but poorly executed and weak in nearly every way.  * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Why!?!??!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Can some one tell me the point of this film!!??!?You know exactly who did it right at the start, Bullock plays a 'character' who you care nothing about, Ben Chaplin is wasted, it slow boring and has no climax, the one small twist at the end is just that small and does not make up for what seems a life time to get toI beg you do not waste your valuable life on this!!! "},{"Title":"3/10. Yawnsome thriller with irritating flashbacks.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to believe that director Barbet Schroeder once did the majestic and very funny Maitresse (1976), and now only seems to do by the numbers Hollywood thrillers.This is very lightweight John Grisham material, crossed with the plot of a TV movie. Bullock is Cass Mayweather, a feisty and independent crime investigator specialising in serial killers. Ben Chaplin is her reserved police partner Sam Kennedy, and together they make an uncomfortable duo. Not good, when two unbalanced college maladriots (Gosling and Pitt) decide to send them on a wild goose chase - by planting very clever and misleading forensic evidence at a crime scene.Fair enough, but while Bullock and Chaplin fail to create any sparks, we also have to endure a several dull overly-melodramatic flashbacks illustrating an important event in Cass's history. Then of course there are the frequent shots of a cliff-side log cabin where there's absolutely no doubt the OTT ending will be set. Oooh... the atmosphere.Watch any episode of CSI instead. It's to the point and far more exciting. "},{"Title":"Crime à la Columbo and some failed ambitions to be revolutionary","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERSA crime story à la Columbo &#150; we know from the start who the killers are but we are nevertheless willing to follow how the detective unmasks them. This movie's Columbo is a woman, quite pretty but emotionally disturbed by her past and therefore quite rough, tough and inapproachable. A challenging character; the problem is that this character is played by Sandra Bullock, a fact that takes some time to get used to. The actors around her are minor stars without a particular image; they do their job quite well and help to accustom oneself to Bullock. In particular, I'd like to mention Ben Chaplin as her partner and Ryan Gosling as the more charming one of the two hobby-murderers. The other one, Michael Pitt, impresses mainly because of his psychopathic face expression.The directing is professionally done. One gets really absorbed, especially towards the end. Unfortuantely, there are some obvious screenplay flaws. The `perfect murder' is not nearly perfect on the one hand; the smart detective (way smarter than AAALL the other detectives around her) is somewhat too smart to be true on the other. So the story is not quite convincing, and sometimes predictable. The very ending fails completely because it disappoints every bit of hope that the movie could possibly break conventions.Murder by Numbers is an entertaining popcorn movie; but (although in some moments it seems to) it won't revolutionize the thriller genre.  "}{"Title":"Sting and the police should sue...","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This want to be Manhunter (1986), is an uninspired police procedural flick.  I had heard this was a smart film and a change for Sandra Bullock, well they were sort of half right.  Bullock channels the spirt of her role in Ms. Congeniality and gives her a few more scars, mental and physical.  In the area of smarts this film really falls short.  Two high school kids pull off `the perfect crime'.... oh did I forget to mention one of them pukes on the crime scene. Chief Wigam could have nailed these two.  We know who the killers are from the start, we know the crime, we see how they did it and we know all their mistakes... the only thing we don't know is when this movie will finally end and who ends up dead.  I kept sitting there waiting for a brilliant twist and it never came.  I have seen Law & Order episodes that were more intelligent and more disturbing.  These kids seem less scary and more like confused, crazy,  wimps.  In all, this movie leaves you feeling robbed, there is no mystery to solve and there are no thrills. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its premise","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder By Numbers starts out as an intriguing thriller, but ends up as a mainstream action flick. It's a pity because the premise is really, interesting and the cast is good. Particularly the young actors (Gosling, Pitt and Bruckner) are impressive. The problem is that there is too much focus on Sandra Bullock's character. Her silly background story mirrors the case that makes up the main plot of the movie... And so what? Time and resources would have been better spent, exploring Gosling and Pitt's character's, their background and motives. The ending is almost a joke All of a sudden the ultra smart and perceptive Bullock starts to make all sorts of really stupid mistakes. Furthermore, the makers couldn't resist giving the story a final plot twist. Still, for a good premise and great acting performances, I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Irrational and Unimaganative","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie hardly makes any sense. On top of the cliche police, forensics, geniuses, etc etc, there is an overdeveloped Sandra Bullock character and some others who do things that make very little sense. Only for those people who want to see how bad a big movie can get, and wrestle with the awful writing to understand any point in the movie. "},{"Title":"watchable crime thriller; Bullock is great","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had not realized Sandra Bullock was this attractive and a pretty good actress as well. She carries the movie on her shoulders and the movie itself is not bad either 'though nothing much notable either. I just think the sub-plot regarding Bullock's character's traumatic background was unnecessary and too much routine. "},{"Title":"numbers not really adding up to much","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the film relies on your belief that bullock could play an edgy detective! if you do than you may take some enjoyment out of this, if not then the film is going to fall flat! i could believe jodie foster in silence of a lamb but bullock just doesnt wash with me, she appears to clean cut, make up too well done, a mere shadow of the forementioned foster!     ben chaplin character just seems so bland! so boring, fans of the tv show 'game on' would be so dissapointed that a fun guy could come  across so vanilla! the killers ironically save this film, micheal pitt portrays his typical tortured soul.  he plays it so seemingly effortless yet it is also hard to see him play another role!this is the first film i have seen ryan gosling in and hopefully not his last, he steals the show from this vehicle for bullock.  for such a young actor he portrays a wide ranging ability. he is beleivable no matter wether he is slyly talking to the cops or cracking under pressure! just like his charachter is the fuel for the murder he is the fuel of the film.overall it is lacking in suspense and thrills. the acting is subdued except for the young stars particulalry gosling .the number is 6. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining, interesting hypothesis, flawed plot and quite a lot of deja-vu's","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sneak preview, Murder by Numbers.May contain some spoilers.I found the moral issues of killing someone just to get away with it very interesting. The movie really handles the struggle between 'knowing that it can be done' and 'actually doing it' in a very entertaining way.Although the plot has some flaws (i.e. the throwing up at the crime scene part) and although the stories diverts from the main issue too much it still managed to get me interested and forget about the time now and then. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a solid enough thriller, certainly better than average, but not exactly a masterpiece. Not sure what went wrong though there was plenty of suspense, good acting, but still something didn't feel right, and there were a couple of deja-vus that felt a bit unsatisfying.On problem may have been that the script didn't know whether to focus on the two murderers or on Detective Mayweather's personal problems, and chose to focus on neither... plus many of the scenes with the two guys felt like I had seen them many times before on TV (e.g. how many times have we seen the bad guy with the rich, influential father?). But even those cliches weren't fully explored... it amounts to a script that scratches a bit on the surface, but doesn't ever go deeper. I guess that's where my disappointment came from.Solid acting from Bullock, who managed to play this introspective and yet tough role very well; it was good to see her cast against her usual character and faring so well. Gosling and Pitt weren't bad either, but still felt a lot like stock characters. Ben Chaplin was cute, but little more than that, R. D. Call never progressed beyond the police boss stereotype, and Agnes Bruckner was just atrocious is all her stiffness.The whole thing was directed solidly, but apparently without too much enthusiasm by Barbet Schroeder. With some more enthusiasm and a better, more focused script that relied less on deja-vus and stereotypes this could have been a great movie. As it is, it's good, but nothing to get too excited about. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I work at a local theater and we're losing it this weekend for a few new movies coming in. Anyways, I went to see it before we lost it and I loved it. It was so awesome. i thought it was suspenseful and very surprising. I would definitely buy the movie. "},{"Title":"1 small complaint and a possible *SPOILER*","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments about this movie (too much of Sandra's character, etc.). I think that Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt did fantastic jobs (as usual) and should've been the focus here. I mean, how many cute young actors are there who are also GOOD ACTORS? Not enough.My next comment may contain a spoiler (may reveal the ending of the movie) so don't read it if you don't want to know!! This movie is the latest remake of the Loepold-Loeb murder case (was previously made as Rope and Swoon). Therefore, it is understandable that they got caught in the end. But, since so many other artistic liberties were taken here, I thought, just let them get away with it! It sort of p***ed me off. They planned it so well and so many slobs get away with murder every day, why not let these two clever ones get off?I mean Cassie's (Bullock's name in the movie) intuition was just a little too far-fetched. He was dumb enough to use somebody else's boots but smart enough to steal them in advance? is what she asks. Chris's character could have stolen them to, hello, WEAR them and then, hello, WORE them three weeks later, not thinking about it. But whatever. I thought under the circumstances, trying to make it somewhat factually accurate they did a hell of a lot better job than most thrillers, hell most movies, these days of being smart and entertaining. If you liked Ryan Gosling and don't have Showtime, then go see his movie, The Believer when it comes out to theatres. It was awesome! And judging from it, he will be an excellent actor and have many deserved opportunities for years to come, if he so chooses (a la Edward Norton.) "},{"Title":"Extremely average","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An extremely average movie, not bad, not that much good, lots of rip-offs (unless put there as an hommage, the easy way out of it).  Go rent Vertigo, Rope, even an old Columbo series!  Came in and got out exactly the same person  I thought movies were supposed to do the opposite!And what's the title of the movie about anyway?  The clock?  Please ! "}{"Title":"Similar to 1959 movie, Compulsion.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What struck me was the bored teenagers attempting the perfect crime.  This reminded me of the Leopold and Loeb case of the 1920's and the movie about the trial, Compulsion.   The film, as I recall, was mostly about the trial (Orsen Wells, E.G. Marshall), but had flashbacks to the crime.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Murder By numbers this afternoon, I am very very impressed with all the actors. Especially Ryan Gosling. He has become such a good actor over the years since his days on Breaker High. Sandra Bullock played a very different cop role than Gracie Lou Freebush and was excellent. "},{"Title":"Very Good.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just went and seen the movie yesterday the 28th of April and I thought it was great. Maybe I should be more specific, I was enthralled by Sandra. I have never seen a women so beautiful before , with the exception of my wife. I thought she was very teasing, tantalizing, and over all was a very much a credit to the movie. I did think however, that the movie could expand on the murders a little more without reducing her part in it though. "},{"Title":"Good actor showcase, okay plot","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ryan Gosling has a ton of charisma.  He was excellent in The Believer and really charming/sleazy in this film.  Michael Pitt generated a lot of sympathy as a squeamish would-be murderer.   Sandra Bullock once again plays a closed off woman, which I really enjoy.  The script grounds her nastiness and angst with a genuinely creepy back-story.  Ben Chaplin is eye-candy (and why is that a bad thing?).     "},{"Title":"Oh dear....","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to see a film where I would not have to use my brain too much and this was the perfect vehicle. The relationship between the two bad guys was interesting to watch and Ben Chaplin, as the good guy, is easy on the eyes. As for Sandra Bullock, well it was not her best film by far. The plot was pretty average with a little twist at the end but overall I thought the film was just okay. Am I the only one to have noticed a major error in the disposal of the body? The film was about two young men who thought they were one step ahead of the police in the forensics department and yet - major spoiler here - when the two men carry the body out of the house and put it in the car, Ryan Gosling's character is not wearing gloves! His fingerprints would have been on the plastic and yet no one in the film picked up on this. I know most films nowadays stretch creditability but this was ridiculous. No one in the police department thought to fingerprint the plastic that the body was wrapped in! I guess you could be forgiven for the slip up by the lads but there again, one of them was a supposed expert when it came to forensics. Did he not notice that his accomplice was not wearing gloves? Tacky. The only thing I found really disturbing about this movie was the relationship between the two boys and how one seemed to control the other. As we all know, unfortunately, life does imitate art imitating life and this type of scenario happening in real life is very believable and frightening.   "},{"Title":"Sandy's most textured performance to date . . .","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  and that's saying a lot considering her Oscar caliber performance in `28 Days.'  Compare her performance in `28 Days' with the same year's winning performance in `Erin Brokovich'; similar material written by the same author--judge for yourself.  I like the unconventional approach `Murder By Numbers' takes presenting the audience with almost everything it needs to know about the story, well in advance of the story's characters knowing.  By doing this, director Barbet Schroeder and screenwriter Tony Gayton can play games with the story's characters while we get to watch and yearn for those characters to know what we know.  Released just a week ahead of `Murder By Numbers', Bill Paxton's film, `Frailty', pretty much takes the same road.  We know in advance what's going to happen and by whom.  The difference between the two films is--TENSION.  The tension in `Frailty' is at times agonizing, unbearable.  In `Murder By Numbers', non existent.  Two high school students, played by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt, decide to murder someone at random just to prove they can get away with it.  Their lives are filled with such lack of attention that they are driven to do this.  Tony Gayton! Barbet Schroeder! Ever hear about Leopold and Loeb? `Rope'? `Compulsion'?  Hello!  So I guess that since we've seen this before, if the filmmakers present it to us in a different way we, the stupid audience, won't notice because, well, we're stupid and have no memory. Gosling's and Pitt's performances are first rate -- as written, but as written I didn't find the characters believable, sympathetic, or even pathetic.  The actors were just there doing a good job playing their as-written roles.  On the other hand, Bullock's character, Cassie Mayweather, IS real.  For the next two hours Sandra Bullock is Cassie Mayweather, a detective with a mysterious past, a broken past Bullock makes us want more and makes us want to know more. Her's is the character this movie should have been about, not the two pi**y high school twerps on a murderous rampage, said murder performed without much ram or page.  Sadly, the good news here is also the bad news; once again, Sandra Bullock elevates a Movie-Of-The-Week to feature status.  She is the most misutilized, under appreciated actor working today. "},{"Title":"Sandra deserves better than this.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't determine if this was a thrill-less thriller, or a suspense film without suspense.  Early on in the story you know what happens and you can pretty much see how the rest of the movie will proceed.  As always, there are a few twists and turns along the way, but nothing that will spark any real interest in the goings on.`Murder by Numbers' wasn't poorly made or acted.  It just lacked the elements that were needed to give the story some real excitement. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but surprisingly good.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (There may be spoilers, but they're minor.)It's the same old story.  Geniuses kill someone for the rush, cop has a personal connection, goes with gut and is right.  The difference with this movie, is that it's not trying to be less predictable.The performances were really astonishing.  Except Sandra Bullock.  She just wasn't up to the challenge.  I don't mean to be mean, but Bullock wasn't good enough to make her role what it could've been.  Bullock can play victim, and she can play tough girl, but she couldn't play in-between.  The role really required blurring the line and keeping the audience guessing.  As it was, she was WAY too predictable - not at all subtle.Ryan Gossling and Michael Pitt, however, were really fantastic.  It was incredible.  Gossling had the better part, but I really want to stress how impressive Pitt's performance was.  After seeing Hedwig and the Angry Inch, I sort of wrote Michael Pitt off as being a not-too-great creepy-looking actor.  But this movie really proved me wrong.  His facial features were really well used.  I felt really sorry for the sap when he was the victim, and he scared me s***less when he was the victimizer.  It was astonishing.That is not to say Gossling wasn't as good.  It's just that I knew he was very good after seeing The Believer.  (See it if you can - very impressive.)As for the script, it was really predictable, as I believe I've made perfectly clear.  I think it wouldn't have survived if it weren't for Ryan Gossling and Michael Pitt.  So, to the casting director Good Job!My grade B  "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Pathetic.  Go rent Compulsion, Rope and the last reel of Vertigo and you have seen this film.(Though it did prod me and my movie going companion to come up with a rather interesting list of sociopathic young adults try to commit the perfect crime films, as we ate no not caviar after the movie.) "},{"Title":"se7en 2","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The number this movie wanted to be was se7en...it was a pretty weak rip off. Very watered down, very predictable, very boring.  The only real reason I went to see this movie was because of the score, done by Clint Mansell, but their wasn't all that much substance to this movie. "}{"Title":"Predictable, but I really liked it.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although Sandra Bullock kind of p****s off, I really liked this movie.  I didn't expect to like it as much as I did.  I didn't expect it to be at all good, but it surprised me.The performances by the two younger actors, (Ryan Gossling and Michael Pitt - I think, I may've forgotten), were astonishing.  They really floored me. Although Gossling had the better part, Pitt gave a breakthrough performance. I had written off Pitt as a creepy not-too-great actor after seeing Hedwig and the Angry Inch, but he blurred the line between victim and victimizer so astonishingly well in this movie - it was amazing.  That is not to say that Gossling was less good, but I knew he was great because I saw The Believer.The chemistry between the characters of Justin and Richard was totally appropriate for the situation.  It was almost tangible.  I felt as though I could cut it with a knife.The plot was the same old story, which is what made it so predictable, but it did a great job of translating the tired story to a modern time and audience.The weakest link in this movie was Sandra Bullock.  She just wasn't up to the challenge.  She can play tough, and she can play the victim, but she cannot play in between.  She's just not there.  I don't mean to be mean, but she's just not good enough.My Grade A-  "},{"Title":"Nice psychological study","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ostensibly a thriller, I found it more fascinating than scary. There were a couple moments that had people jumping in the chairs and gasping, but overall there's not many surprises. From the beginning you know who committed the murder, although you don't know exactly who did what until the end. The meat of the movie is the characterizations of the two teens, genius geek Richard and playboy Justin, who attempt to execute the perfect murder, and the cop who's onto them. The relationship of the two boys to each other is complicated and convoluted, and appears to change from moment to moment in a strange dance of interdependency. The cop (Sandra Bullock) is immensely conflicted and almost seems to be two different people. As the survivor of a vicious murder attempt from which she carries physical and emotional scars, she takes her job as a homicide cop very much to heart, making her both very good and very obsessed. One of the teens is too similar to her attacker, and this makes her more erratic than usual. And she's got a new partner who's having his own troubles trying to figure her out. The acting is at least good by Bullock, Ryan Gosling (Richard) and Michael Pitt (Justin), and often riveting. If you like psychological studies, I recommend this, although it might be a disappointment if you're expecting a nonstop thriller. "},{"Title":"Great acting...predictable twist","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullock gives the best performance of her career.  Since Speed she has seemed to fizel out and not really have much of a noticeable movie.  The acting of the two teenagers also stood out.  It's nice to see more young actors getting recognition and bigger roles in movies.  The only thing that I could say against this movie is the predictable ending.  Most mystery suspense movies usually have a predictable ending, anyway. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"      I thought this was a great movie.  I believe that the information on Bullock's character is necessary for the viewer to understand what motivates her character.  This movie kept me on the edge of my seat and the end was not exactly what I expected which is a plus.  I like to be surprised.  I would highly recommend this film.  Panic Room and High Crimes are two others I would recommend as well. "},{"Title":"I want my 8 bucks and my 2 hours back.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This has to be about the worst film I've seen in 5 years.Worse than that lousy Count of Monte Cristo version.Worse than the Rollerball remake.Worse than ... well, I'm out of movies that aspire (?) to the depths of badness that this one does.Not suspenseful. In fact, the opposite of suspenseful. I've seen beer commercials that were more gripping, with better plots, and in a fraction of the time it took to endure this piece of trash.The characters are cardboard cut-outs. Wow, disenfranchised teenagers. Wow, ignorant parents. Wow, a cop with personal issues. Wow, an obnoxious D.A. and a police chief who's too concerned about his own career to bother stopping criminals. What Mad magazine script-o-matic page did all these half-baked cliches come from? Was it called 100 plot points for bad movies, or Write your own crappy thriller? Even the supposed heroes were obnoxious and stupid. I am really glad that real cops actually have to follow the law in criminal investigations, or we'd really be in a fix.The timing and plot development are terrible. Did the producers get paid by the foot? Two hours to tell a story that crap - how long would a good plot take - a day?Even the visual effects stunk. Work on matching lighting, and getting rid of matte lines, and maybe I'd believe that someone's actually in danger.Awful awful awful.Total crap. "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I did like this movie -- but it could have been a lot better.  For once the critics were right.  The two teenage characters should have had a lot more time in the movie -- they haunted me after I saw it.  I also felt that the explanation for Sandra Bullock's complex character was a stereotype as well as a cop-out. It was entertaining -- but it could have been moreso if the writers and producers hadn't felt the need to resolve everything with Bullock's character so cleanly. "},{"Title":"Pretty good and intense thriller.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* This is another one of those new thriller movies of this year. That is mainly what crowds seem to be eating up these days is violent and scary suspense thrillers, and me being one of those people, I went and saw it. I am now glad that I did. Sandra Bullock plays a female homicide inspector who is on the trail of two high school friends who feel that they have committed the perfect murder. Ben Chaplin plays Bullock's partner. And after seeing his performance in BIRTHDAY GIRL, I wanted to see how he would handle playing in a movie with Sandra Bullock. Somewhat better that how he handled Nicole Kidman. He even goes so far as to try to avoid sex in this film. Which is good. He plays a kind and caring person with a sense of reason when it comes to his job. Next to Bullock, he is the only really big name in this film. The two high school kids were not very well known, but both of them did a great job. They remind me in a way of what the Columbine killings were all about, oh not so long ago. They were both creepy and mysterious. And of course, like many other movies, there is the one cliched killer who tries to be nicer than the other, and all though he tries to do good in the end, he ends up doing the bad. I was really impressed that Sandra Bullock could play a serious role again, after she gave us FORCES OF NATURE, I thought she would stick to soapy comedies, but thank god she didn't. This wouldn't have been much without her charismatic touch. So, what did I think of this film? I thought it was eerie and creepy. The plan that the killers had going for them might actually work in today's world, let's see what other good stuff they got coming out nowadays...MURDER BY NUMBERS 5/5. "},{"Title":"Good Numbers But Could Have Been Better","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love Sandra Bullock's face.  She is one of the few beautiful women that I would call handsome.  Square jaw, strong nose with expressive eyes and the nicest lower lip in cinema.  I'm just longing for the day when she does something as compelling as Speed.  This one is a good attempt, one worth seeing if only for the Hitchcockian (is that a word?) ending, but certainly has a few drawbacks.  Making her the strong character of the piece and every male around her a wimp or a whacko tends toward male-bashing but that's okay....us guys can take it.  Making the centerpiece perfect crime so imperfect was not so okay.  The one murderer being so precise in planting minute fibers on the body and then vomiting at the crime scene?  Come on!!!  With a little help from a Matlock script writer, this one would have been great.  Instead, it's just good.  Keep on tryin', Sandra.  I love ya.  "},{"Title":"this one's got it all!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!! I saw this yesterday, and it went above and beyond my expectations. Michael Pitt, who basically reprises his role from a last season's episode of Law and Order SVU, never ceases to amaze me, and Ryan Gosling one again shows the same talent he displayed in The Believer.  I couldn't care less about Sandra Bullock and her partner, as they were by far the weak side of the movie.  However...I adored the Fight Club reference, and the subtlty of the boy's homosexual attraction to each other, as displayed through their violence together.**SPOILERS**I was proud of myself for picking up on the Fight Club bit, which explains why Justin was not going to die.  It was in fact the anti-Fight Club.  Richard was Edward Norton's character, rejected by the world and wanting to destroy something beautiful.  Just as Justin is the something beautiful, with his intelligence and his almost alien-like beauty about him.  In Fight Club, the man Edward Norton beats up is beat almost to death, but in Murder by Numbers, Justin becomes the stronger one and is going to kill his agressor.Then there's the references to a homosexual relationship.  It's never actually said outright, but something was between the two boys.  I doubt anything physical had ever passed between, and certaintly nothing verbal, but there was an attraction there.  It was enhanced and shown through their violent behavior.  The killing was almost a metaphor for their homosexuality, and portrayed in such a beautiful and artistic way.  The killed someone to be noticed/they were tired of keeping their relationship in the dark.  They then covered it up when it got big/They covered it up when they were treated with prejudiced.  Finally, it comes down to a betrayal/One of them cheats on the other.  It's very sad and very beautiful. "},{"Title":"complete waste of time","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an insult to my intelligence.  Posed as a murder mystery/thriller, this film turns out to be nothing more than a film filled with unintelligent and silly twists.  Throughout the movie, my fellow movie watchers laughed at parts that were meant to be deep but we found cheesy.  Don't even watch this movie during matinee.  It is really a waste of time and money. "}{"Title":"Can't decide what movie it's supposed to be.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are many things wrong with this Sandra Bullock movie, not the least of which is Sandra Bullock.  Her character, and her won't take anymore of this from you crusty police chief are horribly miscast.  I'm thinking the script is at fault.  It's trying to do everything from tell a murder mystery, to comment on women in a man's world, to the injustices of social strata, how jealousy affects a bond, adding some gray element from the past, none of which we ever come to care about, especially in the last half hour.  (End it already, I kept thinking.  This movie is way too long at nearly 2 hours.)  It's one of those movies that gives you the ending first, then painfully tries to take you there from the beginning, then adding a twist.  Barbet Schroeder obviously didn't care to put his mark on the film but chose to shoot the whole script and then seemingly dump the whole thing on some poor editor who couldn't make heads nor tails of it.  Murder by Numbers?  What does this title mean?  The number reference is vague at best.  "},{"Title":"Trust No One","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just got home from seeing this film and wanted to comment on it while it was still fresh in my mind.  Overall, a very good effort by some very good actors.  There were lulls and a few unnecessary plot twists.  Nonetheless, although falling into the suspense cookie cutter from time to time, Murder by Numbers manages to be a decent film.  This is a film I recommend everyone see for themselves.  Trust no one's word but your own.  "},{"Title":"Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt were excellent","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had been awaiting the opening of MURDER BY NUMBERS ever since I saw the trailer a couple of months earlier. Ryan Gosling is one of my favorite actors and that was mainly why I went to see it.The movie itself was...OK. Most of the plot was pretty obvious. The only really exceptional thing was the acting skills of Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt. They were absolutely awesome.I would give it a B- or a C+. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Poorly Timed","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a bad film, and it kept me fairly interested, despite the scummy and uncomfortable theater I attended to see it.  However, this is a disturbing film, and I could not help wonder which high-school aged kids in my neighborhood would be the copy-cat criminals in the days, weeks, months or years to come.  In addition, I think the timing of the release that coordinates with the three year anniversary of the Columbine High School tragedy here in Colorado is in bad taste, to say the least. "},{"Title":"A nice switch for Sandra...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One reason this film fascinated me so much was that it was such a role change for Sandra Bullock. As soon as I saw the previews I knew I'd have to go see it. She pulls the role off perfectly. Not once during the movie did I see the snort-laughing Miss Congeniality or the wise-cracking Annie Porter from Speed. I saw a lonely cop with a horrible life past and a dark look on things in the present. I don't even know why they put Comedy as a type of genre for this movie. The only reason I could think of was because Sandra Bullock was in it, and they think they automatically have to throw in the word comedy. I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 stars because the plot was somewhat original but Sandra's performance in it was outstanding.  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't ave very high hopes for this film, but seeing how I wasn't paying, I went along.  Sandra Bullock's character stole the attention at many points.  Ben's character, the other offer was dry, dull, and two dimensional.  However, the saving grace of the entire film were Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt.  Both young actors were fabulous and very realistic, especially given the complex nature of the characters.  I have seen Gosling in many of his lesser-known works, and have always loved him, but now seeing a repeat after his stunning performance in The Believer I was glad to see him in another great role.  Pitt was extraordinary in his role, and a great compliment to Gosling; the two played well together. The plot was fairly complex, and as I enjoy other crime investigation programs such as CSI, I found it intriguing. At the end, the twist of plot was not expected at all, and you ended up wondering who was really in control. All in all, a fairly pleasant surprise, and worthwhile if you like murder mysteries (although I might wait for video). "},{"Title":"no problem, I wear loose pants","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullocks portrayal of her character is the most in depth character that I can remember in a movie in recent years. I like the fact that her character is very strong yet soft also, like most of us.  We all have very strong and weak emotions that come into play at certain times in our lives and Cassie does also.  Her relationships, and also those of the kids involved, are well done.  This was a very strong story telling movie that gains an appreciative insight each time that it plays in the viewers mind afterwards.  Lines come to mind and questions asked silently to yourself. Do female hyenias have a mock penis?  What was the number of that clue? How would two teenagers have that amount of compulsion to actually kill someone? Didn't I see this story line before?  Orson Welles would like this one.  "},{"Title":"No longer the girl next door","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm just a Sandra Bullock fan. Or, maybe, just maybe, this movie was actually very good. The acting was right on from all involved, and I was happy to see Sandra taking on a role that had less to do with her cute girl next door appeal and romantic comedy mold. But, rather, it showed more of her great acting than appearance. A few minor plot holes didn't distract me from the well-written (and quite original) story. But, overall, this was a thriller with a couple good twists and even a few funny lines. "},{"Title":"Scary stuff.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My main complaint is I couldn't hear parts of this movie and I have good hearing - was it just me or did others miss some parts of conversations?  I thought the teen-age boy actors were terrific - Sandra Bullock was great as usual. "},{"Title":"All Around Flim","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I believe that in the movie world, audience demand much more then can be expected form movies. I know that movies are here to entertain us but some people are never amused. If you are looking for an all-around movie, a movie that gives you it all (sex and violence and content), you are going to have trouble. Murder by Numbers is a great thriller that has the right amount of intrege and suspense to keep you geussing, and just enough momenten to keep the plot form getting old. Also, it has the enough violence and sex (provided in an R rating) to sustain almost anyones interests. If someone is willing to waste your money and go see shot-y movies then you should be more then willing to send your cash here. It is worth the cost.This is a great all around film that has wonderful actors. Sandra Bullock adds enough feminity to her character so that the average person can identfy, but keeps her character hard and distant enough to not ruining the interige. Also, the two fairly new actors, Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt, held their own against Sandra larger-than-life screen presence. I believe you can come to expect great things from them. "}{"Title":"A Really Good Movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel that this movie is entertaining, intellectual, and well acted. Sandra Bullock does a good job in portraying a woman who has a hard time getting close to people and maintaining personal relationships. Ben Chaplin is so cute, and he is a good actor. I like his character. He gives men a good name. Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling are both amazing. They pull off their roles so well. Ryan, if you are reading this, I love your voice it is so distinctive. I love your acting delivery and the delivery of your lines, your vocal inflection are so right on. I think it was a good movie, a great movie. It doesn't pander to the audience. It has a brain.FOR THOSE WHO HAVE SEEN THE MOVIE *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*Sandra Bullock should have told Justin to kick the gun over to her after he put it on the ground so Richard couldn't get to it. That is what they tell the perps to do in every crime movie, drop the gun and then kick it over.Also I thought it was weird that Richard approached Sandra Bullock when she was surveilling him on the street. And it was also weird that he was messing with her physically after she got out of the car. Weird. I guess it was something his character would do, but that doesn't make sense if they are trying to get away with murder.A GOOD MOVIE I WOULD RECOMMEND IT.KUDOS TO EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THE CAST AND CREW. DEFINITELY WORTH THE PRICE OF ADMISSIONTO ALL THE MOVIE LOVERS OUT THERE,HAVE FUN AT THE MOVIES, FROM A FELLOW MOVIE LOVER. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Change for Sandra fans.....","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sadly, I went into this film not expecting much. Im not a big 'thriller' movie fan. I dont like blood & guts. The only thing that drew me into the movie was Sandra Bullock.I must say I was pleasantly surprised though. Sandra has approached other movies (20 Days) with humour where it would not typically have been seen. I commend her performance on Cassie. She did a great job of playing a character with a horrid past. Unlike other movie-goers the flash backs did not bother me and seemed important. I enjoyed her perfomance.The two young murders were played fairly well. Justins character (Michael Pitt) was played to a t. I was thoroughly convinced he was a loner. The only part about Justin's character I didnt buy was the money. Just didnt seem to fit for the personality. How many high school seniors do we know that eat at fancy resturants - alone?!?!I had a hard time enjoying Ben Chaplins performance. It felt flat, boring. Like there could have been more there. But wasn't. He played the role of 'detective' fine, but I felt no chemisty from Ben's character in the film. For someone interested in Cassie - I couldn't see it.Overall I give the film a 7/8 out of 10. Hope to see Sandra approach more serious rolls in the future. "},{"Title":"Predictable, not very thrilling, but entertaining non the less","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story and the characters were a bit flat and under-developed.  But Gosling and especially Pitt (I thought), did a very good job for young actors.  Pitt was very convincing in his roll.  Bullock gave a good performance, but not one of her best.  The film was quite predictable, therefore taking away much of the suspense.  But myself, and most of the people in the theater that I was in, were still captivated enough by what was going on in the film to stay interested.  It had some moments of tension, comedy, and drama.  If you try to place this in a certain genre and compare it to the other films in that genre, you will be disappointed.  But if you look at it as pure entertainment value and not rip it too shreds, I think you may be pleasantly surprised.7 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Two Boys Go On a Murdering Spree","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullock as Cassie Mayweather and Ben Chaplin as Sam Kennedy are on a case where a older woman's body is found by a river and Bullock has a sixth sense about the killer(s)as Chaplin finds the routine stuff.Bullock makes little snide remarks about some of her male colleagues which I do not understand ( or can I appreciate here)since her male partners do not act unprofessional or disrespectful around her.If anything Bullock is the pain in the rear and nobody wants to work with her.The murderers are two high schoolers Richard Haywood and Juslin Pendleton played by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt respectively are self-righteous,sociopaths who pick victims at random. The boys play their hideous games thinking they can have the authorities stumped.Is this a good movie?Good enough(just barely)to recommend for the boys' performances and Ms.Bullock to a lesser degree.Bullock unnecessarily puts herself in danger more than oncenow would a first-rate detective put herself or himself in this position?  "},{"Title":"Not quite a Rope for the New Century","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are clearly parallels here to the Leopold and Loeb case from the 1920's, that has inspired other, and perhaps better movies.Murder by Numbers is less than compelling when it focuses on the Jessica/Cassie backstory of Sandra Bullock's character. Of much more interest is Ben Chaplin's boy toy cop, who gets little or no backstory. The young killers are compelling, though the disaffected children of divorce explanation is a little too convenient. One wonders just how much of the homoerotic tension between the two was left on the cutting room floor. The final plot twist is probably one half turn to many, stretching credibility just a tad. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Hitchcoquettes","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hitchcock has been imitated with varying degrees of success, most recently by Christopher Reeve's TV remake of Rear Window. Cervantes, upon completing the second part of Don Quijote, prefaced it by saying that sequels were never good. Nonetheless, the second part of the voluminous novel is arguably superior to the first. Not so with other sequels incarnated as remakes, imitations or ghastly attempts at revival.In Murder by Numbers two adolescents, out of boredom and to meet the challenge of an antisocial intellectual exercise, kill a woman they choose randomly on a night drive. Bullock and Chaplin are local police detectives assigned to the case. The film revolves primarily around the cat-and-mouse game the teenagers stage for Bullock and Chaplin. Bullock has emotional skeletons in her own closet, which drive her to keep men distant from her after using them for sex. The teenagers play their own manipulative games, eventually prompted by detectives who start to pull the killers' strings while pitting one killer against the other.Parallels between Hitchcok's The Rope and Murder by Numbers are too obvious the Leopold and Loeb cutouts who murder for no reason other than they want to test philosophical ideas about such an act. In Murder by Numbers the homoerotic nuances are too many to ignore, just as they were in The Rope and in the Leopold and Loeb case itself. The movie uses Hitchcock standards such as windows through which we can see people oblivious to the drama, going about their business outside the immediate scene and deepening the perception of the characters as insignificant and isolated in their chaos. Even the ending is remarkably similar to Vertigo. Mr. Schroeder (producer of last year's disturbing Our Lady of the Assassins) could have tried to pay homage to Hitchcock by at least attempting to supersede the derivative cliche Murder by Numbers turns out to be. Even the prolongued shots of corpses and their trauma resemble the worst of Hitchcock's later years, Frenzy.While the plot is slow and lacking in thrills (Gayton's best known previous work is Athens, Ga., and is the writer of the forthcoming The Salton Sea), it aims to stimulate the audience by showing us how the detectives can outsmart the too-big-for-their-brass-knuckles kids. Suddenly we come to understand that boredom can, after all, drive us to kill someone--say, for instance, a movie director. Dialogue is uninspired and laden with bromides, as when Bullock tells one of the killers, Whatever you do with your life, you can't pretend it didn't happen. Mr. Gayton needs to revisit his concept of depth.Chaplin, as a low-key detective confused by Bullock's sexual manipulation, is much better here than usual. Ms. Bullock, one of the film's executive producers, does well with the lines she is fed (didn't she have decision-making power over such issues or did she just squander it in deflecting the pathos toward her own character?) and the character slapped upon her the stereotypical castrating female cop, with a twist, since here her male peers call her The Hyena, on account of the idea that female hyenas have something similar to a penis, together with jokes about how she pees standing up. Please--it's 2002. Women can pee any way they want, and if her colleagues don't like it, tough.  "},{"Title":"If you LOVE Sandra, you will like this movie, it wasn't that bad.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am a pretty avid movie goer (1or2 a week + videos), and I don't know about you, but when I go to a movie, the two main reasons I go is for, escapism and to be entertained. So why is it now, that everyones has become a critic. Not only that, they feel the need to trash a movie, and do it mainly by comparison to other movies like it in the past. This movie is not as bad as even the real, (I get paid for this)kind of critics are saying. With this OK movie, when its over, ask yourself this Did I, laugh, cry, make me think, make me jump, hope that, did I scream, was I entertained, did I generally enjoy it.... Well ya'll, sorry to say, I DID. I know that anyone who is even reading this message right now must be into movies and love to go or you wouldn't be reading this because you didn't know it existed. So now that I've got you attention, let me ask you another question. When was the last time you made a movie? Its not so easy as it looks and I think it is better then you think, especially considering this was Sandra Bullock's first time out as a producer.  A movie should be judged on its own merits and not by the, been there, done that script scenario theory. I thought Ms. Bullock did a very convincing job in her performance as a tough and obviously troubled detective. I think she pulled it off, along with the rest of the strong supporting cast! Listen, if you've seen it and didn't like it for whatever reason, fine. If you haven't, go see it yourself. As predictable as some may say the ending was,I was on the edge of my seat. I still liked and enjoyed this film, regardless of soooo many others opinions of how bad it was. "},{"Title":"great idea -- bad movie","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first the movie seemed to be doing great, they had the characters profiles set...the plot seemed to be going in the right direction... however, as the movie progressed it seemed the director focused on the wrong kind of things...or just a lot was edited from the movie.  The characters' identities changed for the worse within the movie.  Also, there seemed to be a lot of implicit meaning -- in other words -- they had things within the movie that didn't seem to fit the movie itself. AND the title... no where in the movie does the title fit the movie...I suppose the title works for the previews.... Actors did well with what they had.....if they had a better director and writer, maybe this would have worked out better.  But it didn't.  So now there's a new terrible movie coming out this Friday.... My opinion!....don't waste your time or money. "},{"Title":"great idea, sloppy writing, sloppy directing, horrific editing (well, let's hope it was the editing)","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  well, the writing was very sloppy, the directing was sloppier, and the editing made it worse (at least i hope it was the editing). the acting wasn't bad, but it wasn't that good either. pretty much none of the characters were likable. at least 45 minutes of that movie was wasted time and the other hour or so was not used anywhere near its full potential. it was a great idea, but yet another wasted good idea goes by. it could have ended 3 different places but it just kept going on to a mostly predictable hollywood ending. and what wasn't predictable was done so badly that it didn't matter. the ending was not worth watching at all. sandra bullock was out of her element and should stay away from these types of movies. the movie looked rushed also. the movie just wasn't really worth seeing, and had i paid for it i would have been very mad. maybe i was more disappointed because i expected a really good movie and got a bad one. the movie over all was not horrifibly bad, but i wouldn't reccomend it. i gave it 2 out of 10 b/c i liked the idea so much and i did like one character (justin i believe, the super smart one). and it also had some very cheap ways to cover plot holes. it was like trying to cover a volcano with cheap masking tape, it was not pretty. anyway, if you see it, wait for the $1.50 theater or video, unless you like pretty much every movie you see, then i guess you'll like this one.  "},{"Title":"Too light to create tension","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Murder By Numbers I am reminded why I don't regard Sandra Bullock highly as a serious actor.  Bullock has proved in the past that she is well suited to playing the fiesty hopeless romantic with films such as Speed & Forces of Nature, and was one of the more entertaining characters in Demolition Man.  When it comes to dramatic acting however, Bullock falls a little short.Murder By Numbers is a movie that tries hard to imitate the dark, brutal nature of Silence of the Lambs - through a clever plot, grisly crime scene shots, and sexual tension between killer and cop.  Where Jodie Foster triumphed in Silence, Bullock fails in Murder. It is just too difficult to believe that she is in fact Cassie Mayweather, a hardened detective with little time for anything other than the macabre work she has chosen for herself.The real failure of this film is not Sandra Bullock however - it is in the half-hearted nature that the murderers themselves are developed.  We never really get the chance to see why these rich, seemingly successful high school students would commit such terrible crimes.  Certainly the mediocre portrayal of these callous killers does not help either.  Newcomers Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt give it their best, but you get the feeling they are actors playing a role rather than actually being the cold blooded psychos they are supposed to be (ala Anthony Hopkins and Ted Levine in Silence).This film is worthwhile seeing if you are a fan of the genre.  If you are a Sandra Bullock fan aching to see her excel in a dramatic role, you will be sorely disappointed. "}{"Title":"Play time for teens","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I knew little of this movie when I entered the theatre for an advance screening. I gathered from the ads that it was a thriller.What we have is like Compulsion meets Matlock. Two teens decide to commit a perfect murder. A victim is selected at random and then carefully executed so that no traces of the actual murderers is found. Then a bunch of false leads are planted that point to an innocent bystander. (Innocent of the murder anyway)Enter Sondra Bullock as the investigating officer. (IMDB says that she's FBI, but I don't remember that. I thought that she was a regular cop) She's frustrated by the inconsistency of the killers profile (The profile doesn't fit the profile!) and by the power and influence of the father of one of the boys.She's also has demons of her own which figure prominently in her decicision to become a cop. But this is the only character that is really more than one-dimensional. All others are pretty flat.For a thriller, there are really no big thrills. It's mostly a cat-and-mouse game like an episode of Matlock (which she's watching at one point in the film). The twist is that there are two involved in the killing. Just who is the real murderer, Justin or Richard? It'll cost you eight bucks to find out. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not as thrilling...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I know that Sandra Bullock produced this film, but she needs to learn that sometimes you need to make certain sacrifices in order to advance the story...like not trying to make the whole movie about her character!The story is about two high school students (one rich and popular, the other smart and anti-social) who formulate a plan to commit murder and follow it by the number...just to see if they can get away with it.  Enter Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin as detectives trying to solve the case.  The boys have planted evidence, created alibis, and cleaned up after themselves so well that the cops fall for the whole act.  But Sandra has a feeling that all is not as it appears to be.This movie could have been a great little Hitchcock-style thriller, but the movie spends too much time on getting to know Sandra's character rather than focusing on the actual crime itself.  You see, something happened in her past that keeps haunting her throughout the film.  And we get to know all about it...ALL about it.  It just gets rather tedious after a while, especially when you are right in the middle of an intriguing murder investigation and then have to stop that investigation to hear about what happened to her in the past.Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt are the real winners in this movie.  They play their characters convincingly and with just the right amount of malice.  If the script had spent more time focusing on these characters, and kept the detectives there to just do their jobs, this could have been an immensely entertaining thriller.  With the way it is, most of the thrill is lost. They should have cut out all the stuff with Sandra's character and made that a separate TV movie for the Lifetime channel.  But, I digress.  It's still an entertaining movie, nonetheless.  I do recommend this movie...but wait for the video/DVD. "},{"Title":"Crime and punishment(s)","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Much like director Barbet Schroeder's previous work Desperate Measures, Murder by Numbers features compelling villains and uneven writing. Two high school students (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) commit a murder to push their poorly digested Nietzsche beyond mere parlour games; a troubled detective (Sandra Bullock) investigates them.It's basically a Dostoevsky-lite thriller/character study, and an obvious homage to Alfred Hitchcock's Rope, homosexual subtext included. What elevates it above mediocrity are the stellar performances by Gosling and Pitt as the young sociopaths, the former as a slick, aggressive manipulator, the latter as a smug intellectual. Far more conventional is Bullock's cynical cop.Worth one viewing.6/10 "},{"Title":"Solid movie, good performance by Sandra Bullock","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie again recently and found it a lot better viewing than the rating and commentary suggest. Murder by Numbers may not be the next Vertigo, but surely it's better than your run of the mill Hollywood product... The script is very tight and well-constructed and succeeds in smoothly delivering the fairly complex storyline. While Cassie's flash-backs are indeed a bit cheesy, the plot line regarding her past is not irrelevant/distracting, as some here comment, but essential in that it explains Cassie's behavior throughout the movie - most importantly her hatred of the Richard-type and therefore her dogged persistence in going after him when all evidence points to the contrary. Sandra Bullock manages to be both bitchy and (highly...)seductive, and does a fine job portraying a person whose tough outer shell is starting to show cracks. The only 'distraction' in an otherwise very believable film was in my view the Lisa-Justin relationship, which seems a bit contrived to make the movie plot work. Overall, not groundbreaking in any way, but certainly worth a watch. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Bullock shows her serious side in a grim but intriguing film","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cassie (Sandra Bullock) is a hyper-serious police detective. As an ex-boyfriend once tried to kill her and, indeed, left her grievously wounded, she is determined to bring those who harm others to justice. As the result of her near-death experience, also, Cassie favors one-night stands and trusts no one. One day, a woman is found dead in the woods near Cassie's community. She has been murdered heinously, beaten severely and left to die alone. Naturally, Cassie will stop at nothing to find the murderers. Assigned to help her is fellow officer, Sam (Ben Chaplin). He soon discovers Cassie's relentless attitude and all-consuming instincts when she asks him to pick up a sample of vomit that has been left at the scene for analysis, among other actions. The trail soon leads them to two high school students, Richard (Ryan Gosling) and Justin (Michael Pitt). Could these teenagers really be responsible for the planning and execution of the perfect joy killing? This is an intriguing film, but viewers should be warned that the subject matter is grim indeed. Killing for the sport of it is seldom the topic of films that are of the all sweetness and light variety and this one is no different. That said, the cast is great. Bullock, without a hint of her talent for comedy, is terrific as the police officer whose own past compels her to lock up the evil folks of the world. Chaplin, too, is quite nice as the detective who is both attracted and repelled by the forceful Cassie. As for Gosling, he gives a most memorable performance as a brilliant mind with a satanic soul. The production values for the movie are good, too, with appropriately fine costumes, settings and photography. If you are a fan of Bullock's looking for a laugh, this is not the one for you. But, if you adore mysteries, even those with the grimmest of plots, you will find this tale enthralling. "},{"Title":"Nothing new","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie has almost nothing new and original to offer. There is a female police officer who is tough and who has the occasional must-have flashbacks throughout the film. Astonishingly, the flashbacks are connected to the case. Then there is the new male partner, with whom she first becomes friends, then sleeps with him. In addition to this, they fall out. And in the end of the movie the woman overcomes her personal fears.'Murder by Numbers' had the wrong ending in my opinion. It should have ended with the young murderers getting away with their perfect murder, but it did not. All the time I was watching this, I was sympathizing with the young boys, not the police. And I wondered whether it was meant to be that way or was it just the innumerable clichés and bad acting on the police officers' behalf.All in all, the film included some worth-seeing scenes and actors (Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling). I would recommend this film to anyone who has nothing else to do on a Friday evening. "},{"Title":"Great movie plus the lovely Ryan Gosling!!","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent, suspenseful, murder-mystery movie. Not only was the plot full of suspense and intrigue but you get to see gorgeous Ryan Gosling for a couple hours, what's not to love! Also, Sandra Bullock is good in this movie - I've always been a fan of hers, (I just wish she hadn't decided to be in The Lake House which was horrible, but that's another story altogether). Obviously since there are thousands of other murder/horror movies out there, there are bound to be similarities between them, no need to bash this movie for having some similarities to at least a few that have already been made. Anyway, this is a great movie for those of you that actually enjoy scary movies, it's a little dark and twisted but overall a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"So-so yarn spins to a cliffhanger climax...not Sandra's best...","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When it deals exclusively with the two misguided teens (Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling), their classroom scenes, their conspiracy, their tense relationship, the movie springs to life. When it focuses on Sandra Bullock as a detective with Ben Chaplin as her assistant, it falters badly. First of all, Bullock's character is not understandable until one learns her whole story--but even then, it doesn't let us like her. She's definitely not the usual Sandra Bullock sympathetic character here, and, in fact, as the central character in the story, she's rather unlikeable from beginning to end. Nor does the script give Ben Chaplin much to do except look as if he'd rather be elsewhere, especially since he has to put up with the shenanigans of his most unlikely partner. Bullock is better suited to romantic comedies than serious character roles.But the boys are wonderful, a Leopold and Loeb sort of pair, who plan the perfect murder and then let things fall apart when they find themselves up against a determined female detective who sees through them from the start.Slowly paced, the whole thing would have worked better as a one hour crime drama on television. But the charismatic performances of Pitt and Gosling are well worth watching. They're both completely believable as the pair of misguided youths. Gosling is superb as a master of casual menace--grinning and smoothly avoiding detection even when under pressure--until the finale. They are far more charismatic than the nominal leads, Bullock and Chaplin. "},{"Title":"unbelievable","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I find it hard to believe this could happen at all. We do not know if Justin and Richard were troubled or had committed crimes in the past. The movie seems to imply that they were not in and out of trouble. So the first crime they commit is murder? Just to play and jostle with the cops? How do they pick up any girl and just say you are it? Also Richard seems to strangle the woman with little or no effort nor does the women seem to struggle. Hmmm. This whole concept is really hard to believe. That said let's move on. I found myself really hating these punks and would love to have been present with my shot gun with police tactical ammo and see what their plastic suits do then. As for Cassie who was a victim of Carl Hudson has a horrible time trying to survive. The memory of having been stabbed 17 times by Carl leaves her in an emotional mess. Sandra does a superb acting job. She sure made me believe she was one angry cop. As for solving the crime, I thought it was great. This movie kept me planted in my chair. Loved the acting of all but Sam. He had no get-up and go. The one thing this movie did not need was the love scene or should I say the rape scene. "},{"Title":"Attempt at Hitchcockian Theme Falls a little Short (spoilers)","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just as Hitchcock loosely based 1948's Rope on the 1924 case of Leopold and Loeb, such is the case with this film.At first, the parallels between the real-life case and the film are amazing; cruising for a random victim, murdering for the intellectual thrill, allowing the slightest errors to trip up the perfect crime.The twist to the story doesn't mirror the real-life case though, in the sense that the boy who is perceived to be weak and easily controlled is the real culprit in the crime. For fans of the genre, the twist is easy to spot early in the film.It's obvious that the pompous character is the patsy, as well as the fact that Cassie was the victim of the man who is going before the parole board.A decent film, with some flaws that could have easily been avoided. 3 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Reasonably entertaining thriller - too many shortcuts","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullock paints a believable picture as the troubled detective, though seeing her as a cynical man-eating victim-turned-persecutor requires a leap of faith (or two). The two creepy troubled kids are portrayed adequately by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt. I do have quite a bit of trouble getting Ben Chaplin into the equation (same problem arose when watching 'The Truth About Cats & Dogs' (http//us.imdb.com/title/tt0117979/). I mean, when you put an Englishman into an all-American movie, shouldn't there at least be a reason to put him there? Shouldn't there be some story leading up to the fact that an Englishman is serving as a detective on an American police force? Shouldn't there be some dialog pointing out and explaining that rather obvious fact? Or even some jokes about him being that English? He looks out of place here, as he looked out of place in 'The Truth About Cats & Dogs'. Producers really should take notice, it distracts and annoys the audience (at least me). Nothing wrong with Chaplin's acting, it's just a matter of making an actor who is 'out of place' believable and not putting him somewhere without a good reason or a storyline. The movie itself well, thrillers, especially those dealing with solving a complicated crime, require some suspension of disbelief. This one's no different; actually, it requires quite a bit more effort than usual. In order to make Bullock smart enough to crack the case despite of all the pressures requiring her to let go of it, some unrealistic assumptions are being made about the evidence, and I'm sure a lot of people who watched it had a few moments of 'Come on, this is highly unlikely under the circumstances' or even 'Hey, you can't brush evidence aside like that to wrap this movie up!'. Like I said reasonably entertaining and watchable. Just don't use this as required viewing for detective exams. There are no shortcuts there.  "},{"Title":"Really fake-looking cop thriller gives studio pictures a bad name.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is what all studio pictures should fight from being.Everything in it looks fake the rooms and walls especially.An overdose of a failed attempt to create a style.The plot is almost scene for scene from the 1958 film Compulsion, about the Leopold and Loeb killers. Besides that, though, we've seen all this before tens of thousands of times.Sandra Bullock is every other movie detective with a messy car, fast-food diet and an inability to relate to other human beings.2/10. Watch anything else on earth. "},{"Title":"Boring by Numbers (POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!)","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The title of the film must be one of the most misleading I've seen. You kind of expect a serial killer that knows how the police work, and therefore is able to commit the perfect crime. But in this big bore-fest, there is only one murder (and what about the numbers?), and it's anything but perfect.Of course, the moronic police department is baffled, with the exception of the perky super cop Sandra Bullock (one of the most annoying actresses on the planet). Not only is she not fooled by the evidence, she seemingly knows who the killers are, the second she meets them. I really didn't get the whole idea of the two murderers' plan to draw attention to themselves as a game or something.The film isn't helped by the fact that almost every cliché in movie history is in it a cop with a tragic past, a homo-erotic relationship between the killers, idiotic policemen, and an ending that doesn't fit in with the rest of the film. It feels like a stretch calling it a thriller, it's really more of a drama, and a boring one at that. See Seven or Silence of the Lambs instead.  "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm usually a big fan of Sandra Bullock and for many films her likable presence is a saver. However, in this film I found her participation an annoyance and distracting.The subplot in which she is involved, was predictable and not very compelling. The two boys relationship was far more interesting and the concepts of crime which were discussed briefly at the beginning of the film were not developed, and instead of being allowed to understand the two boys behaviour and relationship, we are subjected a melodrama involving Bullocks character.This sub-plot was not entirely relevant unfortunately to the main thread of the film, the only link being seemingly that Bullock previous boyfriend was similiar to one of the young boys. Therefore characters were undeveloped and the main story comes out very patchy, due to lack of screen time.I understand that Bullock was the star of the piece and therefore screen time had to be provided for, however, what was a ok film, could have been developed into something much more, had Bullock taken a step back and let her younger stars shine. "},{"Title":"Thriller by Numbers","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical perfect crime thriller. A perfect crime is executed and the investigating police officer, ignoring all the clues, immediately knows who guilty is. The audience has to wait around the whole movie for the guilty to be caught. The result is like every single episode of Columbo or murder she wrote. The director himself refers to the hackney story by showing the police officer watching an episode of Matlock! This story barely fills up 90 minutes but the director insists on using all 120 minutes filling with every cliche in the book. Skip this one, you are not missing anything. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian suspense thriller.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a rather dull film that relies on a lot of cliches.  Homicide  detective with a troubled past investigates the murder of a young woman.  Just by coincidence, her past involves almost being killed herself and dumped alongside the road just like the present day victim.  In solving the crime, she resolves the issues that have been plaguing her life.There are a few ways of making this situation interesting.  Either you have an intriguing plot with unforeseen twists and turns, or you make the central characters interesting.Sandra Bullock plays the detective with problems, and she seems miscast in the role.  I know actors like to stretch out and play against type, and Sandra has done a lot of cutesy girl-next-door parts, but I just couldn't buy her as a police detective.  Without meaning to sound sexist, I think the movie would have worked better if a man had played this part, someone like Clint Eastwood.  Someone who comes off as forceful but with a slight twist to his character.The only interesting part to this film was the two kids who commit the murder.  Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt play Richard and Justin, two rich high school seniors in some unspecified California coastal town who decide, ala Leopold and Loeb, to commit a murder just to see how it feels and to prove that people with superior intellects can get away with it.Ryan Gosling puts in a strong performance and pretty much steals the show as the dominant one in this pair.  He's convincingly arrogant and creepy.  Michael Pitt is the brainy one who is cold and sneaky dangerous. No need to go into details about the plot.  Of course the detective solves the case with superior police work and she faces down the past that's been haunting her.  But the whole film was just too much of a cliche to be really exciting, and the acting just wasn't good enough to make up for the weak story. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you want to see psychotically disturbing characters","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rating 7 out of 10. Directed by Barbet Schroeder. If you like Hitchcock's `Rope', then you will like this movie. `Murder by Numbers' stars Sandra Bullock as psychologically troubled yet brilliant police detective Cassie Mayweather. Her partner is Sam Kennedy, a non-discriminatory detective played by Ben Chaplin. The teenage killers are high school students Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) and Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt). These young psychotics are out to prove their superiority by committing the perfect murder and getting away with it, but the nearness of capture is exciting and thrilling to at least one of the killers.The supporting characters include a police chief, an assistant district attorney, and the high school janitor that the killers pin the murder on. The movie reminds me of various `Hitchcock' movies crossed with the TV show `Law and Order'. We see a fair bit of police work and it is really interesting to see which clues the detectives follow and which ones they don't.The other plot in the movie relates to Cassie Mayweather's past and incarcerated ex-husband. Most viewers found this aspect of the movie unnecessary and slow moving, but I found this to the most intriguing part of the story.`Murder by Numbers' is a nicely crafted movie if you are looking for safe, or should I say dangerous, murder mystery. For more thrills and suspense, try `Se7en' or Hitchcock's `Dial M for Murder'. "},{"Title":"Morality tale...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers comes off as a re-imagination of the Leopold and Leob story, crossbred with an episode of Murder She Wrote. Sandra Bullock is Cassie Mayweather, a veteran detective paired with Sam (Ben Chaplin) an inexperienced by-the-book cop to investigate the death of a middle aged woman whose mutilated corpse was found in the woods. The cops have little in common, so, of course, they fall into bed from time to time, only to bicker and fight during working hours. So far we've seen all this before. The thing that sets this apart from the run-of-the-mill murder mystery is the attention to the police procedural details, and the performances of Ryan Gostling and Michael Pitt as the two intellectual teenaged killers. Gostling's Richard is a master manipulator, while Pitt's Justin is the brains of the duo. Like the Leopold and Leob (the true-life inspiration for the Hitchcock movie Rope) the pair concoct the perfect crime, randomly killing someone without leaving any clues behind. Gostling is a charismatic actor who is able to ride the fine line between menacing and sexy, while Pitt (best known as Tommy Gnosis Hedwig and the Angry Inch) has the sensitive tortured-soul act down to a science. Directed by the steady hand of Barbet Schroeder, Murder by Numbers is a morality play about how crime doesn't pay, no matter how smart you think you are. "},{"Title":"I'm confused, am I supposed to feel bad for the killers?","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The idea for this film was good but the movie has two fundamental flaws, 1)the bad guys aren't bad enough and 2)the casting was done wrong.  Bullock was more annoying rather than endearing in this flick.  Gosling and Pitt are fine, but their characters are too conflicted.  Those who plan to kill people at random generally aren't going to come of as people I can relate with.  Also, the movie builds up these guys to be serial killers, but in fact they only (ha ha) kill two people.  Besides that, they definitely know their science but offer nothing else.  Also was there supposed to be some sort of a gay relationship between Gosling and Pitt? Just watching the two made me confused and wonder what the director was going for.  Pass on this one. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Tried To Do Too Much","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ultimately what we have here is a movie that seems to be trying to go in three different directions all at the same time, with the inevitable end result being that none of the three directions ends up being ultimately satisfying. This could have been a decent enough story of the attempt to plan the perfect murder; it could have been a decent enough investigative story as we watch the police trying to patch the evidence together; it could have been a decent enough journey of self-discovery for Cassie (Sandra Bullock.) But in the end, it tried to be all three, and the movie is the weaker for it.Basically, this is a vehicle for Sandra Bullock, who put on a solid performance. Ben Cramer frankly underwhelmed me, but I was quite impressed by the two young leads Ryan Gosling as Richard and Michael Pitt as Justin. They both put on convincing performances. But, in the end, the movie just failed to capture me. The ending suggested that its ultimate purpose was that journey of self-discovery for Cassie, but the lack of consistency in the movie following up on that theme made the end perhaps less dramatic than it might have otherwise been. What we have here is an OK movie - nothing more; but also nothing less.5/10 "}{"Title":"absorbing; disturbing; well done","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This multi-leveled thriller kept my attention throughout.  It is disturbing and informative to see how perverse human behavior can be.  It is also instructive as to what past wounds can motivate present behavior.  No one, save Sandra Bullock's partner, is very likable.  However, all are believable.  Sandra did an excellent job.  Her character, Cassie, comes alive with all her pain and fear and defenses.  She is a survivor and so her life experience finally brings her to a healing moment.  I enjoyed this movie very much.  Tom Landers "},{"Title":"Where's the suspense","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with this movie is from the first scenes, all the suspense is taken away.  We immediately know who committed the murder.  The movie doesn't even try to make you think it could be some one else.  I guess it does try to make us guess how they did it. Sandra Bullock was OK, but she isn't suited for dramatic roles like this.  She looks so sweet and pretty, so she is not believable as some hard-nosed detective.  She needs to look a little rougher if she wants to play roles like this.  And I didn't really care for the little subplot concerning her scars and why she joined the police.  The plot should had been more focused so it would flow together more smoothly.  It was a little too long.  And, some of the conclusions Sandra draws towards the end from the evidence is a little unbelievable.  Namely, how she thinks the foot prints in the house got muddy and at what times everything really happened.FINAL VERDICT  A little long.  I would say it was fair.  Not the best movie out there.  Overall, I guess I wouldn't recommend it just because there isn't anything original about the story. "},{"Title":"Son of Leopold and Loeb","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an interesting crime drama, interesting as much as for what is missing as for what it has. There are no exploding fireballs, no spectacular car chases, no serial murderers with puzzles up their sleeves.What we have instead is Sandra Bullock as a rather mean, sarcastic homicide detective. Bullock is not the grinning zesty wisecracker of Speed or the ambulatory Playmate of The Net. Her features, while still attractive in a major way, have hardened, and this has given her appearance character and fits her character precisely. The reason she is bitter, it is clumsily explained, is because in high school she fell in love with the wrong person.(Don't we all?) A blond adonis who was the champion pole vaulter. (That should have given her pause right there.) He turned out to be a drunken wife beater, and when she tries to leave he beats her to a pulp, stabs her seven times and leaves her for dead. At that point she gives up her old identity and develops a new one, as a police officer. But, as her superiors tell her, she's beginning to lose it. Her new partner, Sam, is bland and given no background. She throws herself on him, practically raping him, and then dismisses him with a good-bye wave. She's done it before. So much for that Aryan pole vaulter. You see what I mean by clumsy.Well, she and Sam are up against two high-school kids, self-styled geniuses, out of Leopold and Loeb. One is kind of shy, with pulpy red lips, and big soulful eyes. The other is a wiseguy, egging the other on, teasing him about girls. Leopold and Loeb -- I mean Richard and Austen, of course -- come to an agreement in which they, as free persons, will murder someone at random and leave all sorts of misleading clues behind, including the hair from a baboon. It probably doesn't seem random to the victim, who is dumped near a stream before being found by the cops. Whoever dumped her also seems to have lost his dinner -- caviar, which tells us a little something about the social class of these kids and their cohort. In fact, the ones we get to know are in pretty good material circumstances. But as Bullock points out, they have no meaningful lives, they hardly know their parents, they drive new cars, school is of no interest, they don't work -- they're like homeless people with credit cards. Sociologists would call his life style anomic -- meaning without rules. And you really DO need some rules. Have you ever driven across the parking lot of a shopping mall after the parking spaces, arrows, and other yellow guidelines painted on the pavement have been worn off? Maddening, isn't it? The locations are well chosen, a paradisaical coastal California town in which you can almost feel the summer warmth and smell the lemon verbena. Their high school looks like a Resort Spa. The Nietzschean baloney these two kids have swallowed is hardly better than the caviar they've puked up.At any rate, Richard and Austen are picked up and interrogated separately by the cops, introducing a curious variation on the classic game, the prisoner's dilemma. Two Prisoners, A and B, suspected of committing a robbery together, are isolated and urged to confess. Each is concerned only with getting the shortest possible prison sentence for himself, and each must decide whether to confess or remain mute without knowing his partner's decision. Both know the consequences of their decisions if both confess, both go to jail for five years. If neither confesses, both go to jail for one year (for carrying concealed weapons), and if one confesses while the other does not, the confessor goes free and the silent one goes to jail for 20 years. The irony of the prisoner's dilemma is that when each of two parties acts selfishly and not not cooperate (that is, confess), they do worse than when they act UNselfishly and DO cooperate with one another (remain silent). The same dynamics apply to nations competing in an arms race. If two nations keep buying more weapons in an attempt to achieve superiority, neither gains an advantage and both are poorer than when they started.Well, enough of that. The end of the movie kind of betrays whatever sophistication and interest has preceded it. I don't mean the double or triple twist on the nature of guilt, which are themselves unnecessary. I mean that the writers, having produced a decent script, seem to have a standard-typical Hollywood thrill ending grafted uncomfortably onto the narrative, like a branch of Jimson weed on a tomato plant. A woman is tricked into believing that a murderer has killed himself, by means of a technique that any non-cop could see through. Her weapon is knocked out her hand and bounces out of sight. (Ho hum.) They struggle out onto a precarious wooden platform. She's being strangled. But at the same time, the porch is collapsing, piece by rotten piece, as is the script by this time. The balcony is falling apart. She hooks her foot behind an upright. They hover over a rocky cliff with the surf smashing against the rocks at the bottom. Someone tries to come to her rescue but it's not clear whether he will save her or kill her. Zzzz. But let's not let that discourage us from watching it. It has its flaws but it keeps your attention, precisely because most of that stuff with such presumed appeal is missing from the body of the film. "},{"Title":"Totally waste of time!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  People, please don't bother to watch this movie! This movie is bad! It's totally waste of time. I don't see any point here. It's a Stupid film with lousy plot and the acting is poor. I rather get myself beaten than watch this movie ever again. "},{"Title":"Slow waste of time","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was good in some aspects.  The teenage killers were very good actors and completely believable as cold-blooded killers, and the plot was very interesting.  It would have been a great movie except that the timing was so slow.  You keep waiting for them to get to the point.  Sandra Bullock, while I love her in other movies, was not that great in this one. Her character was unbelievable and almost annoying to a point.  She seemed to have to force being mad and a bitch at times.  Ben Chaplin at times seemed like he didn't care what he was doing.  He seemed to be just doing his job with no emotion that should have been shown at some points. Overall, I say skip this one.  It was a big disappointment to what had the potential to be a great movie. 2/5  "},{"Title":"Sandra is okay, but the plot creaks","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This had some good features the acting was good, and Sandra's problems were pretty well presented--tho as a crime-scene investigator, she also has a lot of other police skills (I dont' know how realistic this is)But the plot relies on some cheap devices, like misleading us with scenes as to which boy was responsible for the murders, and then presenting us with a different version later.  Not only that, but the business about the imprint of the ring left on Sandra's neck was totally unconvincing as the key piece of evidence it was supposed to be.  The imprint didn't really prove anything, aside from the fact that no clear imprint would have been left in the first place.  Perhaps this was the screenwriter's fault, but you never know, since screenplays are usually changed in production. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This thriller has so many twists and turns it had me on the edge of my seat.  I saw it on video, some of the landscape at the bluff might have been a bit more spectacular on the big screen.  Cast has Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin (from The Truth About Cats & Dogs), Michael Pitt (Henry Parker in Dawson's Creek) and Ryan Gosling (???). "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Its great finally to see how good sandra bullock can play a cop.And the movie has a great script,I wont wanna give away secrets to people who have not seen the movie.the relationship between the 2 boys is really odd and suspensful. excellent movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Detectives, high school kids, a victim, and a baboon","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is so bad that the viewer has no interest in listening to any of the added features on the DVD.  Road to Perdition and Tuck Everlasting are on the Coming Attractions at the rental place, and I cannot stand the current crop of blond so-called actresses so I rented this (unknown-at-the-time) crummy film.  Not much makes sense in this presentation, and too much conveniently falls into place.  Why does Cassie/Bullock not lock the door to her houseboat?  Why do those high school fellas get so hung up on freedom and conviction?  Why does the audience have to relive Cassie's past?  **SPOILERS**  What happened to that poor, innocent baboon?  And why a baboon?  Why are filmdom police department heads so eager to halt the investigation?  Is Richard in love with Justin, the Leonardo look-alike?  How does puny Justin hold onto the deck post and Cassie at the same time?  Does Numbers refer to the 666 Richard is yelling, or did I hear wrong?  How do I get my money returned for this dumb film?  Oh, yeah, if I had to listen to Justin's paper, I'd be sound asleep in class or I'd have that Bueller, Bueller look on my face.  My first baboon film -- and I did not like it -- the film, that is.  I like the baboon! "},{"Title":"Crime movie by numbers","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad but could be loads better, also seems to follow a staple diet for crime drama. You've got Sandra Bullock as the cop who finds it difficult to work with others, you've got her placed with a new partner. There's a closed case but a cop who works on it anyway, and there's so many corney lines in the film it makes you want to scream.However, if you can look past the formulaic elements there is a good film hiding underneath. It's gripping and the subplots worked for me. Well worth a rent but maybe not a purchase. "}{"Title":"Screen Play by the Numbers","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An over the top remake of the Leopold/Loeb murder, but Compulsion did it better, Rope is far superior and Swoon has it head-and-shoulders over this formula movie.  Sandra Bullock's acting and the sub-plot of her personal problems are distracting.  Had the story line concentrated on the murderers and the murder and the director strove to be a storyteller instead of some pseudo-psychologist, maybe he could have created some empathy for the characters, but instead he only created indifference for the people and what happens to them.    "},{"Title":"Sandra can do better","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To tell the truth I was not impressed by this movie. The plot idea is good but hasn't been used to the fullest. I also have seen much better performances by Sandra Bullock than this one. I found her totally unbelievable as the seasoned detective haunted by past trauma's. This one will definitely not make my all time favourite list.... "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie. Unlike other thrillers you learn to know the killers very well. You also get to know the two detectives hunting them. The killers are two high school kids. They are very intelligent and want to prove they are smarter than the police so they plan the perfect crime. We all know this crime will not turn out perfect. What we don't know is if they will be caught, or may be just one of them, or even none. In a way I kind of hoped they both would get away with it, although I don't know if this was the movies intention.The story is told in a nice way. You are starting to get to know the people involved. The character of Sandra Bullock is likable but has her own secret, which works against her. Ben Chaplin is pretty good as Sam and the two kids are both great. The scenes between them are the better scenes in the movie.I think you can say the movie is pretty good and not as predictable you would think. For a nice evening with a movie, 'Murder by Numbers' is a good one. "},{"Title":"1920's Murder Case","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder if this movie is based on a 1920's Leopold and Lobe Murder Case, which took place in Chicago. The case involved rich, affluent families in which two sons decided to commit a perfect crime. Both boys had IQ's above between 160-200. The boys drove around the neighborhood and kidnapped a child, killed him and decided to get away. The way they were caught is one of the kidnapper's eyeglasses were left behind (a stupid mistake for being so smart). Both went to prison for life, and in prison they repented their crimes, organized the jail system and fought for prisoners rights. One of the boys received a Ph.D. and is credited in discovering a new species of birds. One of the boys was killed in prison during a prison riot, and the other one after serving 33 years was released and became a missionary in Puerto Rico. Both shared homosexual feelings towards each other and had large paintings of each other. Movie, Murder by Numbers seems to have a lot related to the case. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock destroyed this","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most painful movie to watch and that is simply because Sandra Bullock destroys the movie. She is basically playing the same role again (for the billionth time) of tough lady who used to be helpless victim. I've seen that a million times and it grows tiring. However, Ryan Gosling was the saving point of this movie. I think he is going to be a huge star. And the scene with him in the car jamming to Iron Maiden was the funniest scene I have witnessed in a long time. Save yourself the money though and wait until The Believer (with Ryan Gosling) comes out and buy or rent that. "},{"Title":"Adolescent","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this film it was not an impressive one.  Now that I have seen it again with some friends on DVD ( they had not viewed it on the silver screen ), my opinion remains the same.  The subject matter is puerile and the performances are weak. "},{"Title":"It's criminal how much potential was wasted here","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *Very slight spoilers*The movie starts out great. The relationship between the popular rich kid and the hated nerd (both wonderfully acted btw) was extremely compelling. They were stand-outs in a sea of mediocre teen characters in recent movie history, and for a while seemed to elevate the film above the typical thriller. But unfortunately Miss Executive Producer Sandra Bullock decided that the movie should be about HER character, so we end up having to suffer scene after scene about boring Cassie and her boring past.Then comes the plot errors Cassie is omnipotent, all-knowing and all-seeing! Just from exchange a few sentences with one of the two kids (who is smart and had a perfect alibi), and not having spoken with ANYONE ELSE in the entire school, she decides that HE'S the murderer! Nevermind that he doesn't act suspiciously or says something that's off he was playing with the ring on his finger while talking to her, so as Sandra tells us at the end of the scene, he's obviously hiding something, like murdering a woman! Wow! With detectives like that, it's a wonder there's any crime at all in the world! This type of **** continues ON and ON. She keeps defying all logic sure WE, the viewers, know who did it, but that doesn't mean we can just watch the cop magically solve problems without saying a thing. What puts the nail in the coffin is when she drives over to their secret hideout without ANY explanation being made as to HOW she found it...heck, the entire ending is crap.Another complaint is that the movie doesn't show any of the gore, doesn't give you a close look at those wounds they're talking about, etc. The movie was already rated R...so why not go ahead and show us the goods, in Seven style? "},{"Title":"horrible completly horrible","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe the reviews for this movie. One person couldn't praise it enough. Those criminals were horrible. At one point I thought they were cool and I was actually rooting for them, but then they fell apart. And that ending got me so angry. My ultimate ending for this would have been to trick Sandra Bullock by having her grab onto that stick, and then when she thought she was safe-BOOM!- into the water for her much deserved on screen death. Or when she double crossed Justin that's when he should've stole her gun and shot up the place at least killing her and going out in a blaze of glory. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you accept the atmosphere of this movie then everything is OK. The story is not bad and would perhaps make a good movie in the hands of a better director and with better actors. The truth is that the two characters chosen as intellectual       killers are not very convincing. And there are two more flaws in the plot first we never understand very well the psychological relationship between the attempted murder of the police  officer in her youth and her obsession with criminal cases (in my opinion this is a failed intrusion in the ground of psychoanalysis) and second we cannot understand also why the woman detective suspects of the two young students from the beginning even when there aren't yet any solid signs connecting them with the first murder (the dispossession of the shoes whose prints were found on the scene of the first murder was reasonably and confirmedly explained by their owner). Well but on the positive side of the movie we can mention the good performance of Sandra Bullock as the woman detective and a relatively good sequence of images susceptible of riveting the viewer's attention.                                                       "},{"Title":"Ambitions and they get through with it","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the Loeb/Leopold syndrome again, which means the story of two youngsters murdering as an experiment. It could have been lots of overacting here, but it isn't, because of the talent from Ryan Gosling and especially Michael Pitt (II). A common trick (not too scary here) but mostly functioning, is showing horror in an everyday environment. You believe that people like the two murderers exist, because you have met them, even if you never went to American high schools. Sandra Bullock, the favourite mature-woman-next-door for many of us, completes this very well, although she's acting with another technique.You might see this one. It's better than you believed.       "}{"Title":"Another mediocre Hollywood thriller **1/2 out of five.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really should avoid the thriller by numbers gag when writing this review. But geinuinley thats what this movie is. just another mediocre Hollywood thriller like Don't say a Word. And I heard some raves about Ryan Gosling who used to star in a really awful childern's tv series that I can't remember the name of anyhow I didn't see anything that spectacular he wasn't bad but not brilliant. "},{"Title":"Not crap, but not far off it.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers although that suggests there is something to spoil in the first place.Like many the title lost me, but I've no problem with that. But this was one of them films with so much unnecessary crap in it, which if removed may have been ok.Yes there was a significance to Bullocks characters' history & it's relevance to the film, but it did not enhance the film one bit. Had Cassie? & her partner just been a normal cops with no 'issues' the plot would've worked just as well, probably even better as the emphasis would've been on the killers.Nor did them having sex serve anything to the film. Will we ever see two cops of the opposite sex, actually unattracted to each other & heaven forbid even both married with families each. I suppose that's not interesting TV.That aside, there were far too many coincidences in the plot, there must have tracking devices on every character, Cassie seemed to get more than her fair share of inexplicable breakthroughs & intuitive guesses, and that girl knew Cassies phone number straight off?This was billed as the 'perfect murder'. Aside of the fact they were caught, the police were on to them within ten minutes.I'm a Sandra Bullock fan & in the right role she's exceptional, the rest of the acting was ok & the story & killers seemed realistic but the film lacked any suspense. You know right from the outset what had & would happen & there wasn't a single twist or anything unexpected, even the ending came as no surprise.3/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining but predictable","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film as it starred Sandra Bullock and I'm a fan of hers. It's a standard murder mystery with a few twists and turns.  The film was entertaining enough, but I was expecting to see the man in the shabby overcoat to appear at any time only to say Oh - and one more thing ... at any moment.  Yes, any Columbo buff would recognise the set-up and clues instantly and I found it a tad predictable.Nevertheless a solid performance from all of the cast and an acceptable way to fill a couple of weekend hours. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (SOME SPOILERS)Well, the film has his share of good things and bad things. The good things are1.- Cassie (Sandra Bullock), although yes, she's a female version of Bruce Willis, at least I was happy to see her as a really vulnerable and hurt person (at the end she doesn't turn Rambo on the kids, like Jodie Foster usually does, but barely escapes with her live, and I actually felt for her).2.- The kids, who are quite interesting. Special mention for the guy who played Richard, (seemed like a guy who watches HBO's OZ on a regular basis, trying to emulate Christopher Meloni's character Chris Keller) he was creepy.3.- Iron Maiden's The Number of the Beast. Right then I liked Richard.4.- Chris Penn (picture him in the lead role, JESUS!!!!!)Now for the bad things1.- Cassie (Sandra Bullock), the cop on the edge with shady past has been done way too often exactly the same way.2.- Totally imposible scenarios. What cop would allow a suspect just stick his head in through the car window, snatch her phone from her hands, get in her face and start sexually assaulting her? Come on, here in Mexico just walking up to a cop like that (even in broad daylight)can get you killed, never mind touching him.3.- The thought that cop like her actually exist, the kind with a personal score to settle, really scares me. When first interviewing Richard, she branded him a suspect just because he was cocky and a dick (Jesus, half my schoolmates in high school were like that). Ok, she HAPENNED to be right. But his partner called her up on it she sees her ex husband on every suspect, on every partner, on every MAN!. Obviously, she's out to get anyone who resembles her ex. Consider this if the boys were innocent, and therefore she hadn't found any evidence to support her suspiction, she would've manufactured it! She's so hellbent of getting even and sure he's a threat (because of his acctitude) she would do it! Remember McMartin (it was quite clear the prosecution and police manufactured evidence, testimony from profssional snitches who were also NINE time losers, etc.) and the Memphis nine (don't know if they're innocent, just look at the case against them, a joke).You know, not every suspect is Scorpio (the bad guy from Dirty Harry).  "},{"Title":"stupid movie.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  unrealistic, horrible acting, stupid plot.  it takes a lot to kill a completely innocent person and these two kids did it just to mess around with the cops. i dont think this would ever happen in the real world. whoever wrote this movie needs to understand the mind of a typical high school student more. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two high school kids commit a brutal murder just for the thrill of it and to see if they can get away with it. Two detectives (Bullock, Chaplin) are assigned to the case, Chaplin is quick to write the kids off as suspects, but Bullock suspects they had some involvement in the murder and tries to nail them for the crime.Well, it could have been better if they had focused the movie more on the crime and less on Sandra Bullock's character  and as a result there is hardly no thrills untill the end of the movie. However the two kids who play the murderers are excellent in their feature film debuts. They show a real promise that I haven't seen in a few years. And the sexual tension and chemistry between the two really propels the film and gives it a nice edge. Still as it is, it is much better then your average Sandra Bullock vechile and you have to give her brownie points for trying to do something different.Rated R; Violence, Profanity, and Sexual Situations involving teenagers. "},{"Title":"Not about brains, but bodies","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Probably most people expected this film to be similar to the psychological thriller Seven (this film would be Eight, based on its advertising graphics).  However, despite a carefully-thought-out murder plot executed as a kind of demonstration of intellectual muscle by two pampered and otherwise ignored boys who have no sense of what productive place they can achieve in the world (and who want to test their view of power in that world), the underpinning of this movie wasn't about mind at all, but about what I would call the mesmerizing power of male beauty, which I think is valid for a story about teenagers, for whom physicality is their main concern, anyway (not being stuck sitting around in class learning philosophy or calculus, which must drive them crazy).  To me the most interesting element in the film was Ryan Gosling and his hypnotic performance; I don't believe I have seen an actor move quite so well since Brad Pitt in Thelma and Louise.  It is obvious how the class nerd would be drawn to him, to want to be like him, and to relish their association beyond the point of all reason.  This is pretty typical high school, popularity stuff, which, I believe, is worth psychologically exploring to the depths, but which was not done here. Fortunately, in real life, this does not routinely lead to grisly murder.  The Sandra Bullock character sub-plot also involved the same issue, where about her ex-husband, she said, He was the most beautiful guy I had ever seen, which explains her own helpless involvement with the dance of a cobra.  Even her male partner contains elements of the treacherous male, as it was made abundantly clear that he had formerly been a vice cop, those members of the police force who use, essentially, their beauty and sexual attractiveness to entrap perpetrators of victimless crimes.  To my reckoning, vice cops are a poison on the police force--whether their target is female prostitutes or male cruisers--a hold-over from more puritan values where the area they infiltrate is none of their business and whose whole operation might be put to better use, if they must, infiltrating organized crime operations al la Donnie Brasco.Perhaps even more interesting than the Michael Pitt character's attraction to the Ryan Gosling character, was the Ryan Gosling character's attraction to the Michael Pitt character, which bordered upon the sexual, although for psychologically stunted characters like these I would never identify them with something as psychologically mature as a sexual orientation.  These people operate in a shadow land of indescriminate physical desires.This film, to be sure, is populated by attractive females, the Sandra Bullock character, of course, and notably, the high school girl Goldilocks whose beauty amazed me and was shown for a disappointingly short period time...but here every female was a victim of her attraction to a poisonous male.  The story is definitely about MALE sexual power, not female, which I think is an interesting twist.All in all, I feel that this film took a step into new ground, which I would expect for a film directed by Barbet Shroeder, a director I admire immensely.  If for no other reason, I recommend watching this film for Ryan Gosling, who I believe has quite an exciting career ahead of him.   "},{"Title":"Acting C-, Script F","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers, maybe, I don't know. There isn't much to spoil, frankly.Ouch. That one hurt. Unbelievably bad plotline that destroys any suspense. We know who did it from the beginning, we're given no idea why, and despite employing the act my way out of a paper bag method, the two teenage leads have nothing to work with. Throw in 2-3 useless subplots involving Bullock and her past, and you have one big mess of a movie.It could have been a lot better ifa) Bullock would step up and play a lead roleb) Bullock would step down and let the killers take the lead role(s)c) The last 30mins of the movie were replaced with something that built on the previous hour and a half.But no, we get cliched high-school philosophical crapola stuck to a lousy cop story.What's holding up the Columbine Massacre movie? Because that's pretty obviously the territory Murder by Numbers was hoping to mine.RstJ Albany, Oregon. "},{"Title":"Oh Come off of it...","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not bad. This movie is truly fantastic. The plot, the modern-style writing, the characters, and most importantly, the acting. The acting of this movie is great. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt put on just amazing performances as these two devious teenagers.Bullock is centered around too much. She portray's her character weel, but the whole film is getting to know what happened to her years ago. We also have this conflict of her and her murderous ex-husband, Carl Hudson, and her having to face him again at a Parole Board hearing. This is not too important to the film, but does come together at the last spech at the end of the film. Most people feel this speech is unnessescary but it really isn't. It makes perfect sense and justifies her reaction to Pitt is the end.Like I and everyone has said, Pitt and Gosling make this film. Most favour Gosling and I did too. He was the reason I went to see this film. But Pitt pulls his weight even more. His character is so much more difficult to play for his emotions stray from his actual self. Nevertheless, the two do an amazing job and will soon be top stars in Hollywood.I also recall some people finding the sexual tension between the two sickening and stupid. That thought is stupid. Obviously, we needed the two of them brinking on a sexual relationship. Gosling's character seduces Pitt's into doing these things with him. If not seduction, what else? Persuasion? Not on a character as bright as Pitt's...But this movie is great. Everyone in it acted superbly. Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Movie","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some people said they disliked this movie.  I found it entertaining enough, and unlike many thrillers where the facts do not hang together, and where the plot tests the bounds of plausibility, this one does not.  It is a good tight thriller.   "}{"Title":"Better than what I expected","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've always felt Sandra Bullock  has thrown away her career after  such a strong start in movies like  Demolition Man and Speed. But, at  least this film got her going in the  right direction again.To say the least, I was surprised by  the smart nature of the film, for I  thought it would be just some cat-and-mouse  game with a couple of rich California  boys. While technically, the film was  strong, I felt Mayweather's back  story became too prominent. If it had  been suggested more eliptically, then  it would have gotten a higher mark.  Nonetheless, a solid effort. "},{"Title":"miscast lead - should have been a nice little thriller","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I have delayed writing this one up in order to be fair.  I left the theatre feeling empty and I thought perhaps it might grow on me.  No such luck.  Sandra Bullock is dreadfully miscast and there are way too many holes for this one to work.  Playing, Justin Pendleton, Michael Pitt does show some interesting flashes.  I do look forward to more of his work.  This could/should have been a nice little thriller.  It needed some script work prior to filming and definitely a stronger lead.  In support, Ben Chaplin looks like a lost pup.  Barbet Schroeder has never reached the level we had hoped. "},{"Title":"If it wasn't for Pitt & Gossling I would have walked out...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bullock is a troubled detective on yet again a nother murder case, however this one involves something much more out of the ordinary.  2 teenage boys from different backgrounds, one a goofy rich kid with attitude, and the other a brooding loner outcast end up forming a relationship to commit a perfect murder, only for the purpose that they think they can get away with it.First off, I will say I like Bullock as an actress but this character doesn't work for her, and more importantly this film was so badly written without any character development.  You pick this up immediatly because the cast is good but the script is HORRID.  All the actors with the exception of Pitt and Gosling are so uninteresting, have nothing to say, and are just going through the motions.  We get no insight into them really, so we never care for them or enjoy what happens to them in the story, no suspense, no laughter, no joy.  Also this film follows the simple stock character cop cliche's, the chief who has to utter lines like 'You're off this case!' Groan....  I was waiting and expecting at some point for McBain to come in (from the Simpsons).Also this film is OVERLOADED WITH PRODUCT PLACEMENT.. I counted at least 8. Off the top of my head there was Krispy Kreme donuts, Naya water, Sprint phones, J & B scotch, Dos XX beer, Pepperidge farms chocolate chunk cookies, etc...  talk about beyond distracting..  I guess the script writers knew what they made was so bad, that they had to throw all this in so the audience had something to do.  I had no idea Sandra Bullock did commercials until I saw this film...  And a stupid house that only exists so that the writers can make a cliff hanger ending, and some of the worst dialogue I have ever heard (especially Bullock's speech at end...).I am gonna say only one thing good, and that is the 2 young pre-adult boys in this film were REALLY impressive.  They were very complicated and handled masterfuly!  You get a real sense of the fact these 2 kids are both very lonely for different reasons.. and somehow this strange bond makes sense. But then however, yet film is to gutless to follow the fact that one of the characters acts the way he does by being overly macho to hide the fact that he is homosexual and is infatuated with a poetic misfit.  How these 2 young guys and their performances in this film even exist is litteraly unbelievable since the rest of the film is soooooooooo bad..  thus making them look like they should win every single acting role on the planet.If it wasn't for Gossling and Pitt's performances I would have walked out of this film.  As 3 guys who sat behind me said after the film ended, 'MAN.... that was torture!'Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"GEN Y LEOPOLD & LOEB","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MURDER BY NUMBERS (2002) **1/2 Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin, Ryan Gosling, Michael Pitt, Agnes Bruckner, Chris Penn, R.D. Call.  Atypical crime drama with plucky homicide detective Bullock (doing everything but spitting thru her front teeth to toughen up her onscreen character) investigating a murder perpetrated by two morose yet clever teenagers (sullenly sociopathic Pitt and spoiled rich kid cum cold-blooded loose cannon Gosling) who try to keep her guessing despite the overwhelming evidence leading to the culprits.  Echoes of Hitchcock's `Rope'   and that thriller's ode to Leopold & Loeb underscore the otherwise bloodlessly slow paced proceedings at hand.  (Dir Barbet Schroeder)  "},{"Title":"Rope it ain't!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When Alfred Hitchcock made Rope,you really got to see a classic tale of sociopathic behavior. It was basically a take on the infamous Leopold and Loeb case of the 1920's. For those of you not familiar with Leopold and Loeb, they were two young men, of wealth and intellect, that decided to kill a young boy, simply to see if they could get away with it. It was a somewhat fascinating and tragic case of arrogance and cold heartedness gone awry. Now, to this lousy movie. Why does Sandra Bullock continue to be allowed to act in films, much less produce them? I cannot think of someone with more limited ability. This film had the potential to be good, in theme only. However, the unrealistic aspects of it just kill it in every way. Some of the leaps of faith that it asks are just too much. Moreover, too much Bullock. If the theme of intellectually superior people deciding that they are better and can do what ever they want appeals to you, go rent Rope. If you want to see another * movie from the Queen of the * star movies, go see Murder By Numbers. "},{"Title":"Only mildly entertaining, Murder By Numbers is not as thrilling as a thriller should be.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Only mildly entertaining, Murder By Numbers is not as thrilling as a thriller should be. Sandra Bullock's star power alone will pull folks into the box office, but what they'll be treated to is a pretty clever story that turns out to make for a pretty dull film.Director Babet Schroeder ( Single White Female) does the direction by numbers approach when there were several opportunities for some cool Hitchcock-esque tricks or even some stylistic maneuvering. There were also several points in the movie that could've been the end and it just kept going. With an almost 2 hour running time, this could've been tightened up by at least 20 minutes or so.The kids in the movie (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) do well, but aren't terribly believable. OK, sometimes bored, rich kids do silly things for attention, but a murder? Just to see if they'll get caught? While the investigators try to build tension in their relationship, the real tension seems to be sexual. There's definitely some homoerotic overtones here. There's a jealousy of attention between the boys when Pitt's character is interested in a girl instead of being with Gosling.Another questionable part of the movie is the casting of Ben Chaplin. What is it about this guy to where he keeps getting the romantic lead? He's always pretty dry and most females I've polled don't find him attractive in any sense of the word. While he does alright, there's definitely a better choice out there somewhere.There's also a flashback theme to the film surrounding Bullock's character that turns out to be as uninteresting as a large part of the movie. When all is finally revealed at the end, you're left to think, That's it? That's what they've been building up to?This is definitely one to skip. If you still have a burning urge to find out what happened past what the trailer gives you, wait for the video. It's too bad. This could have been a really cool movie.  "},{"Title":"Murders by numbing (dvd)","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This thriller begins by the (nearly) end thus it kills immediately all suspense. Then, it happens in a high school filled of adult students (Hollywood takes us for real dumb) then it's a remake of Twin Peaks ( a young girl wrapped in plastic near a river) and Sandra and her partner make love after the job. It's dull and boring for a half hour start and the rest is the same the plot isn't interesting and contradictory for a perfect crime, the criminals are totally goofy and the writers don't know when to stop. Sandra is annoying because she is sulking all the time. The DiCaprio clone isn't better. Only Ryan Gosling is OK and funny because he is a excellent actor and his character had to be charming. You have understood that this movie isn't fabulous and you have been warned! "},{"Title":"Not bad except for...","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Why do they do this? This is a perfectly adequate crime thriller. Sandra Bullock's character, damaged by her past, is interesting, and the need to get the two odious perps (one with an appalling attitude, the other with an appalling haircut) to confess is a good engine to drive things along.And yet, having got to an acceptable end point, she steps outside the realms of believability. Instead of waiting for backup when she has the more dangerous of the two trapped, she goes after him (with inevitable results the tables are turned, she gets disarmed etc.) All of a sudden I was taken out of the film. And they so nearly got right to the end, too! "},{"Title":"Murder by Numbers","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this one is about a homicide detective who battles a couple of young rich kids who have nothing better to do than plan an intricate murder and cover it up, they seem to outwit the police force seemingly at will. they taunt the detective by planting clues and leading them off on a wild goose chase. this one has a decent plot with a few good twists at the end of the movie, Sandra Bullock does a fine job in this one as a woman on the edge, not sure of herself and battling her inner demons, she can't seem to keep a man in her life, especially partners, they seem to keep leaving her for some reason. Altogether this isn't a bad film, it keeps you guessing all the way the very shocking ending. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Murder","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was amazed after viewing this good film, is amazing how the two boys Richard and Justin resembles their evil personalities as two young guys who wanted to coldly commit the perfect crime; and i was even more impressed after I saw the case upon this story was based; the Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb crime of Bobby Franks; is absolutely true that this kind of criminal planning minds can coexist with us, as Leopold and Loeb they can still hide in the higher classes of our society, even in the religious society.The film as a whole is great; as a thriller it kept me tied to the movie all the time, wondering what would happen next, the intrigue and mystery behind the murder keeps going; as you see how the perfect murder can be so coldly planned and perform; a total challenge for the cops and for the actors; Ryan Gosling as Richard shows why he's a great actor, performing the most difficult character of the film; indeed i think that he's on or two years short to obtaining an Oscar. I liked but not that much, the performance of Michael Pitt, and the Sandra Bullock performance was to me pretty normal, she was the hook for the promotion of the movie, but as a cop she looked extremely naive. The camera and cinematography of the movie is pretty well obtained and captivates the audience as well.ABOUT THE MOVIE Ryan Gosling plays here Richard Haywood, a high class student, popular, intelligent and manipulative friend of Michael Pitt (Justin Pendleton), also high class brilliant student; they are the main suspects of a perfect planned crime of a girl; the case was followed by agent Cassie (Sandra Bullock) a police officer with some obscure past that tries with her partner Sam (Ben Chaplin) by every mean, to uncover this murder. They all get involve in a CSI type of investigation, with great challenges as cops and in somewhat cat - mouse play where the mouse is extremely clever and loves to play.Very good work of Barbet Schroeder, i will expect for his next movie! and Barbet, please keep working as director, i saw your acting at Paris Je t'Aime and wasn't that good.8/10! without any doubt (i see a little underrated this film, that's a shame, i liked it a lot) "}{"Title":"movie by the numbers","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite my summary comment, I did enjoy this film, most especially the performances of the young men, Gosling and Pitt. I also was not familiar with the work of Ben Chaplin. He was very good and reminiscent facially of Montgomery Clift with his somewhat haunted look.This is a Leopold Loeb/Rope type murder which Sandra Bullock sets out to solve. I'm read some negative comments about Bullock in this movie. She plays a woman not as strong as she pretends, a woman haunted by a disturbing past and, because of that, has a strong identification with her victims. If some of this sounds familiar, it's not Bullock's fault; she does a very good job of portraying this detective.I've seen better; I've seen worse. It's a derivative story. I did think the scene between Bullock and Gosling was unrealistic bordering on ridiculous. She was, after all, a police detective, and while Gosling may have been arrogant, how stupid can one person be? And he's supposed to be smart! Also, for such a narcissistic jerk, how is it that he pegged her emotional problems so easily? Not a necessary scene. "},{"Title":"Great Film, with a spiritual message all the way through.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems to deal with the reality of good and evil, and the free will that we all contain. Bullock's character sees the whole world and every man she meets, and every date she goes on, as the man she most feared in her past, and lives her life accordingly (i.e. defensively). The devil is played in this film as another high school student, so young and so seductive and so rich and popular one of the cool kids who has his way with everyone he meets. He is a mind reader and plays off everyone's weaknesses, and knows just how to find them. One young female high school student, seduced by this devil, says to the other student (who is truly in his grip) you aren't responsible, he seduced you like he seduced me. This, to me, is a major focus of the story surrounding this film. Can it be true that we are simply seduced and remain innocent of what we have done? Or do we all have the ability to make a choice in what we do, and are we responsible for the consequences of ALL actions; i.e. what we do and what is done to us? I think the latter. Bullock plays her character with great strength and character, and the other characters are truly believable (all except the devil who isn't quite enough good looking to look like the devil I imagined, but that also made him all the more fearful, since he was so young and so heartless and so cruel). This is an incredible film, and I applaud Bullock for making it. The message is about choice and what happens when we make the wrong ones, and live our lives out of sadness, grief and fear. Who sang the beautiful song in the film? Too bad there is not a CD to go along with this inspiring film, or that imdb.com doesn't list all the song titles along with other movie credits. This film has great music all the way through. "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers, 1, 2, 3, It's as easy to learn as your ABC's.Ahh, the Police. Another of their song titles was a movie, Demolition Man, so why not?If you can slip a tablet into someone's coffee...But the movie didn't really have anything to do with the song, so that lead was gone.Sandra Bullock is one of my film heroines. She has always chosen roles that bring out that victim look in her, and I've liked all that I've seen.The character she plays in this movie reminds me of a 30 something girl I dated a few times a few years ago. She really did... the whole tentative into the relationship, don't touch me too much thing really clicked. I've seen it, so I know it can be for real.Perhaps Ms. Bullock would be thinking series here, because there is definitely a potential for that with this character.No in-depth analysis from me... I enjoyed it and rated it 8. While it was a tad formulaic and not the most incredibly original, it was well executed and sometimes that makes all the difference. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not too much on screen gore. But Sandra Bullock's character was too psycho to really relate to. The plot wasn't unbelievable. Foreshadowing was used adequately. But there's really no rational reason for the protagonist to persist in believing that the real killers were still at large. So, considering how bad it could have been, I guess I have no complaints. But it's not a flic I'd watch a second time. "},{"Title":"okay, this movie is hot","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Previous comments have blamed Sandra for making this movie all about her, because she produced it?  Obviously thinking like this displays absolutely no understanding of the way a movie is made.  The producer does nothing, except pay for stuff.  It would be one of the screenwriters or the director or the editor who would chose which character they would emphasize.  Sandra is great in this, there is definite sexual tension between the two antagonists, and the plot played out very Hitchcockian until the rather anti-climactic ending.  Sandra is very very beautiful in this movie though, and it is definitely worth seeing.  Only criticism I can think of is that it was noticably bereft of comic relief.  Otherwise, it's all good. "},{"Title":"Better than it was reviewed to be.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, Sandra Bullock detractors.  In no way was her past overdone.  In fact, it was a very minor part of the movie.  I have seen a lot of thrillers, and this one is much better than average.  Very few 'cheap' thrills, where people jump out of closets, etc.The two boys were both played very well.  The political people (Sandra's boss and the Asst. D.A.) were the only poorly acted parts.  Everyone else did very well.I recommend the movie. "},{"Title":"Murder by Numbers * * *","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers is a thriller that at times had me thinking that it was a clever thriller and at other times had me rubbing my eyes  and yawning.Nevertheless,I did find this movie pretty much involving and I found the plot of the film well worth the time to spend the rest of the time spending my entire time sitting in the auditoriom staring at the screen.Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin were good in the film and the film does have it's good points and it also had it's not so good points.I don't know what it was.Maybe it was because I was tired watching this film late at night or maybe it was because I prefered watching The Scorpion King which I liked a little more.Murder by Numbers falls in the same category of it's one of those O.K. films and the ending which I cannot give away made the film worth the time to watch. "},{"Title":"Bad Scriptwriting by Numbers","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Murder by Numbers last night at a free advance screening to college students on the campus of Kent State.  I think the studio is hoping to generate buzz among 18-25 yr olds by showing it free.  Unfortunately it was a complete waste of time.  Every cliche used in better movies is utilized from the angry police chief to the detective(Bullock) who know's the true killer's identity but no one believes her.  It's almost as if the writers of this started with an interesting script and then slowly wrote them selves into a corner as the movie progressed.  If you're like me you'll find yourself hoping against hope for a surprise twist at the end but don't hold you're breath.  There is none.  Add this movie to Bullock's impressive resume of Speed 2 and Love Potion #9.  Don't waste your time or money. "},{"Title":"Murder by slumbers","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The murder committed by Loeb & Leopold did for Hollywood movies what soap adverts did for TV, i.e. the bringing forth of countless and pointless copycat shows all round the world, and this copycat is just as pointless as all the rest.The always drab and hackneyed script is occasionally even silly, and it's delivery, by every actor involved, is laboured, awkward, disjointed and mumbled right throughout the movie, and seldom gets out of Dullsville. (When will screen actors realise that their audiences like to hear, as well as see them. Otherwise why were talkies ever invented? I know that American is a foreign language to us Brits, but spoken clearly we can understand it. I presume there are speech therapists in the U.S.A.) Even the photography was poor and hazy. Perhaps the cameraman had gone to sleep like everybody else involved seems to have done. In fact the only part of this movie which was emphasised and tried to keep us all awake was the normal everyday sound effects, and they were like something out of the first talkies ever made, when proper use of microphones had yet to be perfected.The Hitchcock effort on the subject (Rope, starring James Stewart), was far better done, and without the help of method acting (which, to my mind, should be completely banned from the art), and unnecessary forays into forensic science.The under-playing was just too over-done (which I thought would have been impossible), the youngsters just too irritating, and the flashbacks (doubly explained in dialogue), just superfluous.Overall this movie is one for ardent Sandra Bullock fans only. Even they might find it disappointing. It's uninspiring, methodically slow, insipid, and completely predictable right from the outset. Yet another copycat, and one of the worst. "},{"Title":"Leopold and Loeb-Types vs. Tough Woman Detective","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Star and producer Sandra Bullock's detective could have been watching an episode of CSI instead of Matlock that she does in Murder By Numbers, as it's basically like a two-parter of the CBS series. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt are creepily involving and alternatively sympathetic as Leopold and Loeb-types (gee wasn't that what Compulsion was already about?) and Bullock has flashes of uniqueness.I enjoyed the sexual role reversal in the beginning which made the interplay with Ben Chaplin as her partner start out interesting, but that wasn't pursued, more's the shame.At one point I thought I was confused or had dozed off, but it turned out we were all being played with, but then I don't think the kids would really have made the mistakes that led Bullock to them. (originally written 4/27/2002) "}{"Title":"Fails To Convince","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A mish mash of every cop movie cliché going, this feels like an overlong episode of Columbo. There are a few positives the murder plotters are well portrayed and the murders show some thought.But Sandra Bullock just didn't convince me and I don't think she can carry this type of movie in the way Jodie Foster did in Silence of the Lambs. Ben Chaplin is similarly miscast as her partner neither seem to portray strength of character at anytime, even though Bullocks character has past 'issues' she would still have needed strength to do what she does and this is never apparent as her voice is often weak in what are meant to be commanding scenes.There were a few twists and turns but most can be seen coming a mile off, I hate to be negative about movies as a lot of skilled work goes into them but I can't find anything to recommend this.Your better off watching Columbo repeats on BBC2 - 4/10 "},{"Title":"Wow Sandra!!!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and it was very good. It's rather a crime drama, exploring the reasons why the 2 teenagers killed the woman. It does have thrilling moments but it's no classical thriller. What's thrilling about it is the cat-and-mouse game Bullock and the kids have. It's done nicely and the acting is very good. This goes especially for Sandra Bullock who is really presenting a completely new character. Yes, she's tried different genres before like 28 days (a good movie, too). In it she was also playing a new character but by the end she was too much of the girl next door again. In Murder By Numbers she's playing a character that's really not the girl next door and that doesn't change by the end of the movie. She succeeds very well in creating this very different character. Kudos to her acting abilities and that she finally dared to play something completely different/ was finally given a new role. Not that there's anything wrong with the kind of role she often plays but.. she can do other characters really well, too. So good for her she can prove it!Check it out, it's worth it! "},{"Title":"A story of expensive boots, old carpet, a cheap sweater, yard watering and a baboon.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ----POSSIBLE SPOILER----Murder by Numbers is a classic mystery involving two intellectually unchallenged students and a female cop who's just one can short of a six-pack.  This is the story of expensive boots, old carpet, a cheap sweater, yard watering and a baboon.  Detective Cassie Mayweather Sandra Bullock is a stubborn cop who takes female homicides seriously, she's got personal experience.  Richard and Justin Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt, respectively are two students who don't find the SAT's challenging; instead, they rather plan and execute the perfect murder.  Detective Mayweather has seen their kind before, and the games begin.Murder by Numbers I couldn't connect the title to the story offers good acting, a cleaver plot and a challenging intellectual exercise for the viewer.  This film is not a `who done it', rather it's a `how did they do it'?  The story is like 7th grade math, you know the answer it's in the back of the book but you've got to work the problem to get the grade. The murder is sufficiently complicated and sophisticated that the crime sequence is actually replayed for the viewer as the film concludes.  There are interesting parallels between Detective Mayweather' personal experience and the murder; these are inserted via unexpected flashbacks.Murder by Numbers gives Executive Producer Bullock lots of face time.  Her performance takes her from female ditz roles to dramatic actress.  She delivers a strong performance as a detective with emotional issues, and a yen for male cops.  "},{"Title":"Ryan Gosling & Michael Pitt  Were Fantastic !","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Greatly enjoyed this film starring Sandra Bullock,(Casie Mayweather),Two Weeks Notice,'02, who was a mixed up police detective who had some very deep dark secrets in her past and managed to show these weakness to her co-workers. Ben Chaplin,(Sam Kennedy),Lost Souls,'2000, was Casie's partner and had a very hard time trying to keep her in line with their investigation and her personality flare ups with Ryan Gosling,(Richie Haywood),The Believer,'01. Richie Haywood and Michael Pitt,(Justin Pendleton),Bully,'01, were very good friends who had families that paid very little attention to them. Richie & Justin decided to do just about anything they wanted and were both very sick mentally. This was a very entertaining film and it is easy to be critical about this film which never was intended to win an Academy Award. Sandra Bullock held this picture together, however, Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt both showed great acting abilities and I am quite sure these two actors will become greater stars in the future. "},{"Title":"Murder by Boredom","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  slowest moving film I've seen in a long time. Include this with the fact it's basically boring (especially Sandra Bullock) throughout, and you've got a film that starts out with lot's of potential, but drags along with plot holes that are so evident...it's a crime in itself. The two boys in the film do a great job though..and make up for Sandra Bullock's obviously over the top acting as the tough guy female detective. If it wasn't for the two adolesent plotters...this movie wouldn't of even attained the 5 rating I gave it. "},{"Title":"Objection!! Leading!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I almost didn't watch Murder By Numbers, for two reasons. First, I'm not the biggest Sandra Bullock fan, but second and more importantly, the trailer does not do the movie justice at all. In fact, I would advise against watching the trailer, because it will almost destroy all interest in watching the movie, like it did to me. The problem is that the trailer gives the impression that Murder By Numbers is a murder mystery with no mystery, because it is obvious from the start that there is no question as to who the murderers are. It leaves you with the feeling that if you watch the preview, you've seen the movie. Kind of like what happened with Pleasantville.It is not long before it becomes clear that this is not a murder mystery, it's a murder thriller. True, there is never any question about who the killers are, but the point of the movie is the chess game that they play with the investigators on their trail. It is difficult to accept Sandra Bullock as a CSI, but at least in the second half of the film she pulls it off. In the first half she was going through the motions, for some reason not really seeming to believe what she was saying, or who she was supposed to be in the film. Of course, this is all just my reaction, I could be completely wrong.On the negative side, the movie comes dangerously close to glorifying the Columbine shootings, although it features one rich popular kid and one recluse as the killers, while Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were both outcasts lashing out against the popular crowd. Richard, the popular kid, displays some odd behavior in his friendship with Justin, the recluse. He seems to think that they're dating and acts like an over-protective, jealous boyfriend, generating much of his rage from times when Justin doesn't pay enough attention to him or, even worse, kisses a girl. Justin is the brains behind the operation, having studied in great detail the investigative practices that would follow their master plan, Richard is the motivation. He really wants to do this, and the only reason that he ever gives in the movie is that he was bored. A true sociopath.On the other hand, maybe it was Richard who felt like the outcast, given his lack of success with the girls. Granted, he didn't seem to have any trouble getting in bed with the girl Justin was interested in in order to turn him against her, but consider the reaction that he always seemed to get from Lisa, which was limited to obscene hand gestures. He was, of course, of the variety of high school kids who thought that the good way to get a girl's attention was to drive up next to her blasting Iron Maiden at full volume and flashing the devil's horns. Charming. Maybe if he had tried some more romantic Iron Maiden than The Number of the Beast, like Seventh Son of a Seventh Son, or Infinite Dreams. Chicks love Infinite Dreams.The movie has a lot to say about the bureaucracy of criminal investigations, as Cassie Mayweather (Bullock) struggles to follow the strong leads that she has come across, while her boss attempts to force her to stop investigating the crime, already intent on closing the case with the tentative conclusion already reached. I'm not sure if this is meant to portray him as simply wanting the case over and done with or to show that he really doesn't care whether the real killer(s) is/are ever caught, as long as someone goes down for the crime. Either way it's not a very glowing portrayal of authority figures.Then again, Cassie, being the only flaw in their plan, is meant to come across as this sort of reckless independent investigator, in one of the very few weak things about this movie. That's what every movie like this does. There is always someone who is forced to give up on a case because they're too close to it (the victim was a relative, lover, etc.), because they are a liability (they know the killer, the killer knows them, etc.), or because they are too dangerous (they destroyed half a city block and lost a lot of evidence). In this case, Cassie's forced to leave the case because she has found clues that might lead her to the real killers. Nice. Pretty weak way to generate suspense, but overall with some good twists this is still a pretty entertaining thriller. "},{"Title":" Rope revisited.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock invented any kind of thriller you could think ofhe set the standards so high that any director who makes a suspense movie will be fatally compared to him.The main subject of this Bullock vehicle ,all the ideas,almost everything was already in Hitchcock's classic  Ropethe two students who commit a gratuitous crime, Nietsche's philosophy,and the clues that the boys disseminate ,the Master was the first to transfer them to the screen.And with an eighty-minute movie which was a technical riveting tour de force.Murder by numbers  does not take place in a single room,like the rope ,mind you.And ,what a supreme originality,it pits two cops against the evil youngsters;and ,you would never guess it,these two cops are very differentactually,Bullock plays the part of woman living like a man ,and her partner (Chaplin) is as shy as a clueless girlie.The two boys' performances are not really mind-boggling ,not as good ,as ,say ,that of Edward Norton in primal fear .Well,you know , Rope was so good .... "},{"Title":"Predictable yet thought provoking","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder by Numbers starring Sandra Bullock (Cassie Mayweather), a homicide detective accompanied by a wet-behind-the-ears rookie (Ben Chaplin). The moment she's misty-eyed over the victim, you know there's a back story we're inclined to visit, presumably to give Bullock something meaty to contend with.But the spotlight remains elsewhere. Michael Pitt (Justin) is an encyclopedia of forensics, displays an uneasiness that suggests his underlying desire to be embraced by the more confident, cocky Richard. Ryan Gosling is effectively smarmy and has better chemistry with Bullock than Chaplin does. Murder by numbers works as a solid character study and a decent time watching thriller. Despite average reviews and a disappointing box office record, this film does have a place and audience for the CSI type fans. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable rubbish","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So, two college kids conspire to kill someone they don't know, in cold blood, and then frame someone else, and then kill that person too? Apparently just because they want to, and to try and beat the cops? Does anyone at all consider this as normal behavior, even in the USA?Then the cops come in, Bullock and Chaplin. They have their own issues. She is called Hyena by other colleagues, he is fresh out of cop-school. And she has to cope with her own demons from the past.Gosling was 22, Pitt 21, in the main roles. I can't understand why Sandra Bullock agreed to take part in this nonsense, but her performance lifts my rating from a 1. There is nothing special about any of the scenes, or the dialogue. The story flips between now and the events of the killing which is a bit confusing. "},{"Title":"Solid performances, but...","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was amazed to find that this particular picture had induced no fewer than 300 user reviews when I looked it up on IMDb. I find that really astonishing, particularly as the theme has been used before and &#x96; despite its top-scale budget &#x96; this movie was obviously designed for a TV rather than a theatrical presentation. The director loves close-ups. Even minor characters get the close-up treatment. Mind you, production values are more than TV can afford, although a vital special effects scene at the climax is so shoddily done, it must have seriously undermined the audience's reaction when projected on a cinema's huge screen. Nevertheless, although it could stand a little trimming, the movie does come across effectively thanks to very convincing acting from everyone in the cast from the leads to the minor players and even to the extras. Available on an excellent Warner DVD. "}{"Title":"Not bad, just really cliché","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I didn't hate this movie, it is predictable with some twists.The problems are with some of my movie pet peeves. First of all, exposition dialog. The investigation of the one guys crime scene had a lazy way of saying why the main character is the way she is, a guy just walks up and says because of her past she is messed up. I hate that in movies, I'M NOT FIVE!!! The second problem is the by the numbers formula. In the first 10 minuets I thought I've seen this before. Do not come into this movie expecting an original formula. The big problem is the time, it could have stopped so much sooner. This movie had a perfect way to end it and it didn't take it. This gets a 6/10, it's above average. Like I said I didn't hate this movie, it has some really good elements. My favorite part was the interrogation scene. So if there is nothing to watch then watch this. "},{"Title":"Too many irons in the fire","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Übermensch (Beyond-Man), Wagner and Nietzsche were not enough for Mr.Tony Gayton, the writer of the script. He added the completely different subplot about Bullock's personal problems. It was like watching two merged movies. Anyway I saw some fine acting and a good cinematography with a kind of fan cut the movie could arrive easily to 9/10. I'd delete completely Sam's character and I'd not done Richard (Gosling) the favor of letting him die by accident. My ending would have been on the double arrest after the failed double suicide. Getting to keep movie's duration under 100 minutes. I'd cut all flashbacks, too. Flashback is EVIL! I had fun with this movie. I will distribute the fan-edition through illegal channels. Keep in touch ) "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two gifted high school students execute a perfect murder - then become engaged in an intellectual contest with a seasoned homicide detective (Sandra Bullock).Basing the story very loosely on Leopold and Loeb, and also very loosely on Hitchcock's Rope, we have the tale of two kids who think they can get away with murder. Now, could they? Is a perfect murder actually possible? With so many unsolved crimes out there, maybe it is...Great casting with Sandra Bullock and Ryan Gosling, who is equally charming and disturbing. Sort of odd to think the two had a relationship stemming from this film (with a 16-year age difference), but that takes nothing away from the film itself, which is quite clever. Sandra, you cradle-robber! "},{"Title":"Its murder for kids","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An inferior and overlong film based on the Leopold/Loeb case, made famous by Hitchcock in his movie, Rope.Director Barbet Schroeder disappoints with the thrills and with some horrid CGI. Sandra Bullock is the tough, no nonsense cop out to get the killers but she has her own demons to fight.Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt play the intellectual types showing their mental superiority in planning the perfect murder but still come across as high school spoilt rich kids, even though one is a geek and the other is a brat.Young Gosling shows early promise, Bullock is convincing in a straight dramatic role but the film is dull and a let down with some poor writing and plot points. How did Gosling guess Bullock was following him? Who leaked the information that the kids were being interrogated? "},{"Title":"''the perfect murder","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It was supposed to be the perfect murder...unfortunately it was not...I was expecting to be the perfect murder...anyway the film begins with the two boys planning the perfect murder and it goes well until super detectiveSandra bullock suspects them...why?she founds the ''right suspect'' all the clues was logically connected...but no,she knows about the boys and decides to chase them...and how the police ignore all the clues about the main suspect?the case was supposed to be closed but again super detective is on duty...I just wondering why Justin didn't do anything when he threw up and just left...he was scared?yes,he was disgusted?yes but he was very smart to do something like this...I just don't understand it...and how the lamb found Justin's DNA from the puke...the chances was about 1\1000 i guess....anyway the plot has many gaps and it is very predictable...However the chemistry of two boys is pretty good and i enjoyed it...Sandra bullock is good too but i think over the top...I just expected to see the perfect murder,thats all...i had more expectations from this film.I give it a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Solid little thriller, saved by its cast","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Murder by Numbers' is a pretty run-of-the-mill sort of thriller two spoilt, rich teenagers decide to commit a murder and see if they're smarter than the cops. Unfortunately for them, the 'cops' are Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin - and these two just won't let go.So it's a cat and mouse sort of game between the two pairs. Like I say, it doesn't sound like anything that special... and it's not. However, the film is raised above average by the stars. Sandra Bullock acts out of her 'kookie-comedy' kind of comfort zone. You may expect her to fall over or hit her head on a frying pan, but she never does - she plays it straight all the way through. Plus the two kids are kind of creepy and you will be rooting for Sandra and Ben to bring them to justice.And that's about it. If you like either Sandra Bullock or a better-than-average cops hunting killers kind of film, you should like this - at least enough to give you a couple of hours entertainment.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"A pact made with relentless fire that requires that, while some live, others die.","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A modern spin on the Leopold and Loeb case, directed by Barbet Schroeder and starring Sandra Bullock as a cop with emotional baggage trying to prove that two high school kids (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) have committed what they think is the perfect murder - just for kicks, allegedly.There's nothing exactly awful about the film, it's well performed by the principal players, engrossing in narrative, beautifully lensed by Luciano Tovoli and Schroeder layers the production with a suitable feeling of unease. Sadly there's no psychological depth given the two boys by writer Tony Gayton, which renders the whole motives and means, and the investigation of such, as being a shallow exercise in thriller film making.Running at two hours in length doesn't help matters, because this further irritates that more meat was not written onto Gosling and Pitt's bones, while it also exposes just how hackneyed and clichéd the picture is. Which when the story should be psychologically profound, marks this out as a frustrating viewing experience. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An average, mind-boggling thriller.","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder by Numbers is a mesmerizing crime thriller about detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and new partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin) are pitted against two malevolent high school students (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt), who execute a perfect murder.This movie cuts to the chase with story elements that grab your attention at certain times with its riveting acting, from Gosling playing mind games with Bullock to the detectives attempting to outwit the two crooked geniuses to solve the case.It's a murder-mystery movie with plenty of twists and turns, but has a plot which can wear you out a bit as I've found it to be a little slow at times as it dwells on unnecessary characters' past and drama a lot and has limited action. It's not great, it's not bad, but an average crime thriller.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Pretty Terrible all Around","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What happens when you take a classic whodunit murder plot, tell the viewer right away whodunit, and have the lead detective know who the killer is the whole time? You get a crappy movie. And unlike what the title suggests, there was hardly any math involved. It's not a bad story, just horribly executed for the film. Two high schoolers plot to get away with murder after one of them studies criminology and CSI textbooks. But because everything was known from the beginning, a huge part of the film is scenes questioning the boys, either at school or at the police station, and there's no build-up to catching them. And Sandra Bullock's character is absurd. She's a hard-ass, she's a slut, she's vulnerable, she's a victim, she's got it figured out, she doesn't know anything. Not worth it. Though Nick Offerman of Parks and Rec plays an unnamed police officer for about 6 seconds of film time. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Good creepy performances but not much thrills","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) is a wealthy and popular high school kid who befriends nerdy introvert Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt). They plan out murders adding false forensics to baffle the police. They kill a woman to set up Richard's drug dealer janitor Ray Feathers (Chris Penn). Police detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and her new partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin) investigate. They have a romantic relationship but it's not working out. She's the only one who suspects Richard and Justin, but nobody believes her. They then stage the janitor's suicide, and everybody wants to close the case. Justin is infatuated with fellow student Lisa Mills (Agnes Bruckner), but Richard sleeps with her. This and the fact that Cassie is closing in cause a rift in the partnership.Director Barbet Schroeder isn't able to instill the proper amount of tension. There are just a few too many side stories. He needs to concentrate on the three leads. The romantic entangle with Ben Chaplin's character is a distraction. It just makes her look weak. I think she could be damaged, but not necessarily weak. Ryan Gosling puts in a good creepy performance. Michael Pitt is likewise creepy but in a different way. Ben Chaplin's character is the most normal and the most expendable. The movie generally could use more excitement or scary thrills. "}{"Title":"Every bisexual for himself","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder By Numbers has detectives Sandra Bullock and Ben Chaplin assigned to the murder of a young woman who was blitz attacked by an intruder in her home. Bullock gets the right scent on things, but the 'facts' keep getting in her way.This updating of the Leopold/Loeb story that has seen such films as Rope and Compulsion inspired by that famous true thrill kill story has as its protagonists Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt. I think that the author gives us a big hint to the characters of these two right in the beginning when we see Pitt reading a paper he's written for a class about Nietschean superman philosophy and Gosling just pretending to be asleep in class.The homoerotic tension crackles off the scene with Gosling and Pitt. They are truly into each other until Agnes Bruckner enters their lives. After that it's every bisexual for himself.These two go far beyond Loeb and Leopold. Not only do they randomly pick some poor women for their kill experiment, but Pitt is a science wiz and he manufactures the forensic evidence that throws suspicion on Chris Penn the school janitor. Unfortunately Gosling really rubs her the wrong way when he's questioned. He's the kind of rich kid you love to take down.But speaking of rubbing the wrong way, Bullock is rubbing her own superiors just that way. Part of it is male chauvinism, part of it is they don't want to ruffle the feathers of Gosling's father who's the richest guy in town. Bullock and Gosling dominate the film. Her with her dogged determination to take down the rich kid and him with a terrifying charisma that just about everyone is taken with. Loeb and Leopold never had problems like these. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I start my review saying how many questions I did through this story. You know, two VERY WEIRD guys kill a girl in order to.. feel free? As the movie goes, we get to think that occasionally we'll have some twist or some reason for them to do that; instead, we have director slowly showing scenes, in order to explain how they killed the poor-- and random-- girl. Michael Pitt could already show in 2002 his potential to play crazy characters, and there is no other reason why he would be afterward chosen to work in the sick 2007's Funny Games. To sum it up, this movie just doesn't deliver. There is no reasonable plot or reason for spectator feel empathy for any of the characters, turning this movie into a vague and uninteresting story. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"A TV movie?","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just saw the movie on TV and had never heard of it previously. I feels like a made-for-TV movie. Sandra Bullock, the superb actress in Speed, plays a bitchy detective. Being in law-enforcement, we despise such hubris, whether from a female OR male. Two other things were tick-offs the push for marijuana use and the scripted mocking of the police in general when Sandra shows up with a box of donuts. Oh, there is a third too many boring parts.Thankfully, it was on TV and almost free; only had to pay for an HD TV, HD antenna and some electricity; the latter which is missing from the movie. "},{"Title":"A reasonably decent thriller","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's a pleasure to watch a tight and riveting thriller about two egotistical, effeminate killers whose plot falls apart because they overestimate their own intelligence and underestimate the tenacity of the person on their trail - but enough about 'Rope', let's move on to 'Murder by Numbers', which is based on the same real-life case as the Hitchcock film but is nothing like as engrossing. It's a decent movie but a very generic one.Sandra Bullock's hard-bitten cop, burdened with simplistic psychological issues and demons she must exorcise, isn't very convincing at first (just as Ben Chaplin does charming better than dour) but I got used to it; it's the two kids (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) whose performances impress the most. Twists and turns towards the end of the movie give the impression that it'll end strongly, but then it's spoiled by a finale involving a silly fight and a typical falling killer wrap up. Ah well. It's all right but unmemorable. "},{"Title":"Erratic","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Terrible movie, extremely predictable. The whole movie from start to finish is written in the summary right on the DVD. And how does Sandra bullocks character go from the tough girl in the precinct to crying and scared of a high school kid bullying her? Started good with a decent, if unoriginal, plot and story, and just got worse and worse throughout. Guess I need more lines for this to post. Only decent plot turn was the eggs in the throw up. The twitchy kid, Justin, could have been a great character if it was revealed at the end that he was super messed up and actually controlling everything the whole time. Instead his character really had no depth besides wanting to be cool. "},{"Title":"Procedural Wild Things","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two homicide detectives - the troubled, yet seasoned Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and her fledgling partner Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin) - get assigned to a murder of a young woman found wrapped in foil near a river bank. Due to past trauma Cassie treats this new challenge with special intent, often allowing prejudice or urges to lead the case, instead of meticulous knowledge-based analysis. All to the demise of the culprits a pair of high school kids - the geeky detached Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt) and his absolute opposite the spoilt feisty rich kid Richard Haywood (featuring a young but already superbly engrossing Ryan Gosling).Don't worry - the latter details is hardly a spoiler, as the narrative quickly discloses the culprits of the crime, instead attempting a more procedural take on resolving the connect the dots. Much focus is placed on the strikingly homo-erotic relationship between Justin and Richard with some awkward psychological build-up attempting to explain their morbid obsessive pass-time. Knee deep in forensic books they concoct a seamless murder with all clues pointing towards a third party and them fully outside of any suspicion. That is until Cassie comes along and uses the extremely speculative methodology of investigative forensics, which is emotional bias (namely disliking the personality of Richard, who supposedly overtly reminds her of past wrongs). The script seemingly needed to imprint this character trait in order to somehow solve, what otherwise would have been an unsolvable crime, thus Sandra Bullock's detective roams around the screen in semi-crazy mode attempting to create an alternate scenario contrary to almost every piece of possessed proof and despite strict orders from her superior. With alcoholic binges apparently conducive to cracking the case.Murder By Numbers possesses some strong similarities to the already classic Wild Things, albeit without the vixen female characters and dual personalities of detectives. Inspired by the ignominious Leopold and Loeb case, the movie very frivolously deal with any moral underpinnings (supplanting some loosely thrown about concepts about murder as freedom), instead attempting more on creating a well-wrought murder scenario and an equally inspired reasoning to solve the puzzle. Whereas the first seems like a truly contemplative piece of scriptwriting, the second shoulders resolution on the peculiar unprofessional antics of Cassie the traumatised forensic expert, who ignores character profiles and the barrage of evidence on a misconstrued hunch.Captured within a story, which seems like a prolonged CSI episode Murder by Numbers is somewhat entertaining, albeit mostly due to the obvious talent-pool of young Gosling, enticing audience with his gripping personality. Given there is no whodunit tension, the minor secrets involve pieces the whole plot together as to how the murder was committed with the question of 'why' mostly disregarded by some psychobabble and contrived character constructions of our two murderers. "},{"Title":"trying to do too much","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not a great movie. The cast was OK and the only reason I watched it was because of Ryan Gosling who is one of my favorite actors. He pulled on the role, but it is not his best work. His best scenes is when you get a feeling of attraction between his character and Justin. I also enjoyed the interrogation. Besides that the movie was predictable and not really all that enjoyable. They tried to put too into the movie. One cannot create that many characters with that many problems without making some of them feel forced or superficial. The acting wasn't good enough and the writing wasn't quite there. The music was lacking at points and seemed silly at one point. I think there was a lot of potential here, but it was not achieved. They could have gone with a really dark movie that focused on the kids or they could have focused on the cop, but they tried to put them both in there and it just did not work. Giving Cassie the background that they did give her did not feel natural and just forced. Her interaction with the rest of the police force was also just another thing that felt forced. I also wanted to to say I liked this part where Ryan Gosling convinces Micheal Pitt's character to kill the girl. Overall not a great movie. "},{"Title":"Err on the side of caution","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If this movie had stuck by the numbers of proved crime thrillers past then it may have been a bigger success. In this thrill kill two rich and bored high school boys do tons of research to commit the perfect murder. They had an elaborate scheme with many misdirecting clues in order to just simply see if they could get away with murder. Why are rich boys so destructive? The movie went along with the masculine but promiscuous Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and her Joaquin Phoenix look alike partner following the well placed clues in order to solve the murder. This movie had crime, yes, but it was no thriller. Sure there was a bit of a twist at the end, but nothing mind blowing or jaw dropping. It was a decent movie, but very bland as far as murder mysteries go. But, maybe that was the goal; a movie by the numbers. In this case they can virtually guarantee that it won't be a flop, but the natural byproduct is that it won't be a huge success either. This was a perfect formula for movie makers that can't afford to take huge risks. "},{"Title":"Boring Bullock","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This trite and over the hill movie just doesn't hack it. Directed by Barbet Schroeder and scripted by Tony Gayton, it has Sandra Bullock in the lead. She's very annoying that you want them to do away with her. Playing a most unlikable character, Bullock grated on my nerves with her I don't give a damn about people, what they think and continues to go against the police department. She's that obnoxious. She is not really an actress and comes across with a superiority attitude. Other actors try their best. Ben Chaplin, as Bullock partner in crime, can't do too much as she hogs most of the screen. There's definitely no sparks between them. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt come off the best as the two young men who are accused of a crime.Don't waste your time with this silly nonsense. I'm not a Bullock fan, and this film proves my point. I've never really liked her work which is always the same. One expression from her seems to come across like someone stuck on themselves. I give this mess a 2 for the presence of Gosling and Pitt who saved it from going down. "},{"Title":"Some actor/producers have no feel for the final product","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sandra Bullock is a person, not really a STAR or an ACTOR. If I wished to dignify her, I would say she is a dependable character actress.She really does play the same part, with the same inflection, every time. Sometimes the movie fits around her, often times it doesn't.She is willing to work her ass off, though, and willing to take direction. She is also willing to gamble on scripts that sometimes shouldn't have a future. She also photographs well and has good set designers.The two young leads do the best they can with what they are given, and their performances shine above the mush that the co-starring adults put forth. The script lets them down in many places, most notably with allowing these two bright lads to trap themselves in a dead-end hideaway. The bit with the brightest one throwing up wasn't too bad, except that he tossed his cookies RIGHT NEXT TO A FLOWING STREAM. That's right, sports fans, the characters are portrayed as being smarter than the scriptwriters... which means someone was reaching... and falling short.The character that Sandra is playing shouldn't have been on the police force in the first place and probably, given the several levels of stupidity and silliness that she exhibits, shouldn't have lived as long as she did or survived the encounter with the young murderers. The levels of adult sexual harassment displayed by Sandra's character and her co-cops are simply unnecessary and add nothing to the movie. "}{"Title":"Okay","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was okay. I paid two dollars to see it and I got my moneys worth. It was a good enough movie but it was just too Hollywood. Maybe if the lead character that was played by Sandra was played by an unknown it would have taken this movie over the top. In my opinion she was just a bit too famous for the role. I think if they would have spent less money and would have used unknowns it would have just been an awesome movie. And geesh... get out of southern cali why don't you! Set the story in Maine or Washington. I mean, who cares about a murder in Southern California? Make a movie where kids decide to murder someone and they don't live in a part of the country where someone is murdered every single day. Geesh! "},{"Title":"Cross 'Rope' and 'Compulsion' and Add Sandra Bullock","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This flick is pretty cool. With a slightly smarter script this would a tour de force. The kids could have written a paper about Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment, discussed Leopold and Loeb over dinner, and watched 'Rope' and skipped the whole thing. But this is stylish, good fun.Visually it is pleasing, especially in architectural detail and vistas of California coast. Two high school kids have Stickley lamps and sports cars, yet must kill to prove a philosophical point? Been done. I believe it here, especially since the homosexual pretext is right up front (which is new). A suicide pact doesn't have to get pinned to pop psychology; instead, it's another great plot twist.Sandra Bullock and the cast aren't especially distinguished, perhaps since plot actually drives this movie, not star value. I'll own a copy some day. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film looked decent enough in the previews... Sandra Bullock, gifted teens, death and mind games. So I decided to watch, though I admittedly didn't pay all that attention to it. After trying several times to grant the film all of my attention, I found myself thoroughly disinterested in it. Sure, it was fine, but it was just nothing I hadn't seen dozens of times before, and done far better many of these times. Throughout the film, it felt like an average thriller of this kind... then the ending came. The film loses all and any meaning when the beyond-stupid ending hits us like a blow to the stomach. Plenty of people are referring to it as one of the worst endings ever... I'm one of them. The plot is decent. The pacing is fair. The characters are somewhat well-written. The acting is good, for the most part. Casting... well, what can I say... except for Sandra Bullock as seasoned detective? Please... and go on to comment that she's far too young to be seasoned and she should probably never have tried doing drama. She's far better at comedy, anyway. The direction is uninspired. I have no previous experience with Barbet Schroeder except for Single White Female, which I was fairly impressed with. He can do far better than this. So can Bullock, for that matter. Not much else to say... one to avoid, unless you feel the distinct need(and I don't mean desire, I mean *need*) to see every film in the genre. I recommend this only to huge fans of the people involved in creating it. And even those should probably just pretend this doesn't exist. It'll be easier that way. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre approach to a well-known theme","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie never really gets a grip on the viewer from the opening scenes on. Sandra Bullock portrays an extremely obnoxious female detective who gets her kicks from teasing her male assistant (a very bleak Ben Chaplin) in an irritating now you have me, now you don't attitude.The secret of her disposition lies (of course) in a trauma from the past but this explanation does not really succeed in evoking a form of sympathetic understanding towards her on the part of the viewer.The plot itself ,namely two very intelligent teenagers who, appalled by the boring normality of everyday life, try to rise to a higher level of existence by committing an in essence senseless crime, is not a novel theme and has been portrayed many times before (e.g. Hitchcock's Rope). A very mediocre production indeed with an ending that is needlessly complicated and artificial. "},{"Title":"Average story, good acting","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I originally came into this film when it was halfway done. I was drawn in by Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling; I wanted to see what they did and why. I thought Sandra Bullock, who I've seen elsewhere in better roles, was lacking in this film. She slowed down the story.It would have been a better film if it had focused solely on the two killers, and explained their relationship better. Were they together or not? It bugged me that that was never answered.The story was implausible, as well, but it is a movie. Reality must be thrown away for many movies to be enjoyed; this is one of them.As I said, Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling were the bright spots in an otherwise bland film. I'd watch it again just for them. "},{"Title":"By Numbers is about right","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A big(ger) budget remake of the Columbo episode 'Columbo goes to college' in which two bright, possibly homosexual high school students plot the much touted 'perfect murder' only to be confounded by a reasonably observant homicide detective. The story has potential alright but these so-called geniuses are just a couple of chancers who've read a few books on forensic pathology and think they're Professor Moriarty. Bullock is no Peter Falk and for my money not even as attractive as the glass-eyed sleuth but if she can work it out with such built in distractions as pent-up sexual frustration, memories of her own near murder at the hand of her boyfriend and the fact she's plagued by meddling figures within her own department, the perfect in perfect murder may need to be re-examined. Murder by Numbers is not especially good then and its problems are manifest in the so-so casting of Bullock, who is a shade masculine in it and not particularly charismatic and Ben Chaplin who is saddled with an appearance that makes him look like a sex offender. Only the killers make it a watchable view and even there they've lost you long before the end on account of their unbearable smugness. Columbo would have had these little upstarts pegged in about 5 minutes and would bug them to buggery before revealing the elementary mistakes that pointed to their guilt. Bullock by contrast spends an hour feeling sorry for herself, half-raping Ben Chaplin and allowing herself to be intimidated by the suspects. Its all enough to make Peter Falk puff on his cigar and shake his head. "},{"Title":"Exciting Thriller","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers is an intriguing and suspenseful tale of 2 spoiled teenagers who commit a murder just to see if they can get away with it.Sandra Bullock is excellent as homicide detective Cassie Mayweather- a fish out of water role for Bullock, who has her own demons to fight while catching the bad guys.Ben Chaplin is excellent as rookie homicide detective Sam Kennedy, he adds real depth to the story. Ryan Gosling & Michael Pitt are OK as the perpetrators of the murder, but I don't feel they did it to justice, as well as they could. This movie is ideal for a quiet Saturday night in. With Sandra Bullock & Ben Chaplin it is an excellent effort. 8/10  "},{"Title":"A very good thriller.. no thanks to Sandra!","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What an intelligent thriller. Murder by Numbers (or Murder 8y Num8ers) works on so many levels. With the school killings and all in the recent years, this tale of two college kids trying murder out for size is actually not that far fetched. The fact that these fellows are carefully planning their crime is in my opinion no different from just walking into a school and opening fire. But the murdering scheme is not the only thing this film has going for it.There are also the homosexual references between the main characters Haywood and Pendleton (Gosling and Pitt). Now that takes some balls in a big Hollywood thriller like this. The carefully thought human emotions in Murder by Numbers are elevated even further by the jaw dropping and simply outstanding performances by Gosling and Pitt. Where as Bullock's character may seem fresh on the surface, but scratch it a little and the clichés reveal themselves.I really recommend this movie. Sure, it may not be A Clockwork Orange, but especially for a Sandra Bullock movie, this is refreshing and thoughtful. And again, no thanks to the leading star.**** / *****  "},{"Title":"an OK movie with a few setbacks","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a lot of problems and could have been so much better if they decided to make it all from Richard and Justin's POV. Ryan Gosling did a great job on his role as well as Michael Pitt. Sandra Bullock's character however had 2 major problems that made all the difference to me a. She should'nt have been the main character. And her relationship with the other detective was pointless and irrelevant to the plot. b. The flashbacks she kept having about her past were too illusive. If they wanted to connect that storyline with the plot they should have given us a little more than just some lousy flashbacks.All in all, this movie is worth watching just because of Gosling's excellent performance. But it has a few problems like the twist in the end and the fact that you find the lead character somewhat annoying. 6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Decent Murder-Mystery","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just so-so for me.  It kept me interested, because I enjoy watching murder-mysteries, but there isn't really much about this movie that is all that unique.  Past reviewers have correctly noted that it's formulaic and uses plenty of clichés.  However, the movie is unique in the way that we know who the killers are from the get-go, and we see how the detectives try to solve the case.I particularly found the interrogation scene to be interesting, as it is something I learned in my Business & Society class in a case called the Prisoner's Dilemma.  In fact, maybe I should tell my professor to show that clip when he discusses that case.  Hmmmmm.Anyways, I'm getting off-topic.  Like I've said, this is just a so-so movie.  The acting is good, with Sandra Bullock playing a talented detective with a secretive past.  However, the actors that stole the show are Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling, who played the teens that plotted the murder.  They probably have bright futures ahead of them in the movie world.So overall, Murder by Numbers isn't necessarily bad, but it's definitely not a must-see movie.  If you happen to come across it and have some time to kill, by all means, watch it.  However, if you are looking for a great murder-mystery, I highly suggest checking out Seven.My IMDb Rating 7/10.  My Yahoo! Grade B (Good) "}{"Title":"Thriller by numbers","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed by this movie, but impressed by the way every cliche in the book was stuffed into it.Sandra Bullock is the obligatory 'hard nosed detective with a past'.  I personally didn't find her convincing, she played a better tough nut in Miss Congeniality.  Then there is the male parter to whom the mandatory romantic subplot is attached- but only so the 'you let people get close then push them away' card can be played.  And, yes, of course there is the boss with whom Bullock gets to butt heads, and yes, he comes out with the 'You're too involved with this case' line.  How original!The irony is that this thriller is trying hard to play out an inventive, original scenario.  The audience knows from the beginning who the murderers are and the fun is in watching the cops figure it out.  Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling play bored rich kids who come up with the idea of committing the perfect murder.  Pitt's wierdo loner, Justin, has knowledge of forensics, while Gosling is the charming and  popular Richard, who is also seemingly a sociopath.  The pair randomly select their victim, and plant clues to lead the police on a wild goose chase.  But they didn't figure on the fiesty Miss Bullock...The relationship between the two teens in the movie's strong point. Richard's is the stronger personality, and Justin feeds off him.  A recurring image throughout the film is a creepy composite picture of their two faces.  Pitt and Gosling, two more or less unknown actors at the time this picture was made, are perfectly cast.Less strong is the relationship between Cassie (Bullock) and her partner Sam (Ben Chaplin, surely the most charisma free leading man in movie history). Surprise, surprise, it's Sam's first case!  The dynamic between them is weak, chemistry non-existent, and they also have to contend with some truly lamentable dialogue.That said there are some interesting ideas in this movie, and it does quite a good job of building tension as the net closes on the errant teens.  It a shame, then, that all this is thrown away in a laughable, cliche ridden climax.  And the twist at the end?  Barely worth mentioning. "},{"Title":"COLUMBO hits the big screen.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some Spoilers..................Sandra Bullock as Peter Falk! (Tight black figure hugging trousers Vs a Mac, Yummmm Peter!.....)'Murder by numbers' as 'Columbo goes to college'.I love my murder-mystery movies and tv episodes. Being from the UK I love Inspector Morse, Frost, Cracker, Seven, and Columbo.The first three because I love the 'series', Seven, for the shock, story, & great acting. Columbo because of Peter Falk.Columbo was never a murder-'mystery' because it wasn't a mystery who dunit! It had that unique perspective of watching Columbo (like a cat) tease out his victims/culprits like mice.Alas S.Bullock doesn't have the same enduring character portrayed. It does have it's twist (sort-of, last minute addition to keep the bosses happy I guess), but not nearly enough.For the first 3/4 of the movie this could have been a good Columbo episode (apart from already having done one on the similar lines), the last 1/4 was a waste of disc, alas (bosses again?).Come back Sandra as the good actress you are, and please more Columbo repeats! "},{"Title":"The best movie EVER!","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have watched this movie at least 60 times and I have to say it is my favorite movie ever. the plot and everything was perfect. I hope that Sandra Bullock will be in other movies that are just as good as this one! I think Sandra Bullock produced this movie correct me if I'm wrong! "},{"Title":"Cool and gripping teen thriller","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's rare for a thriller to live up to its billing these days but this one certainly does. Sandra Bullock does a pretty good job of her role, as always, but it is the two young male leads who really steal the film - in particular Ryan Gosling as Richard. He manages to make the character menacing and almost maniacal, whilst still being charming and sexy at the same time. What makes the film a winner, in my view, is that we already know whodunnit before we even start watching it, so there is none of that predictability, and guessing the ending which comes with so many films of this genre. Instead we get to watch a game of cat and mouse, a pitting of wits between the detective and the two killers. It manages to keep the pace going until the very end, and doesn't ever lose it's way. An easy 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"this is better than some of her others!!!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what you are talking about if you don't like this movie; you have to admit that it was better than some of her others. we all remember the bomb that was speed 2. hahaha this at least had some thought behind it. thought it was not my favorite movie of hers (While You Were Sleeping earns that title) it wasn't that bad. I love Sandra no matter what she does. I have seen all of her movies and i continue to support her no matter what she does because she chose it for a reason.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hey I'd just like to say that this is a very good movie! It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time. I was a little confused at first but then everything started to come together in the end. It's a very good movie to see if you're into thriller/suspense films. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ryan Gosling gives an Oscar-worthy performance as one-half of a thrill-kill team loosely based on Leopold-Loeb, but otherwise there isn't much to be said for this Sandra Bullock vanity vehicle. Frankly, the film would have been better off without Bullock, who is miscast as an emotionally tortured cop on the trail of the killers. There is a slight twist at the end involving these very bent killers that unfortunately become meaningless in the face of Bullock taking up so much screen time. If you insist on seeing this film, see it for Gosling. If you want to see Bullock, watch MISS CONGENIALITY instead. "},{"Title":"Formulaic but good","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the plot was predictable and formulaic, the action was good as was the acting by all four of the main characters, including the two young men. The facial expressions and nuances of Ben Chaplin expertly turn the tables - expressing things you're used to seeing women do. Similarly, Bullock pulls off the traditional male, don't-give-a-damn detective attitude, with only a hint of female susceptibility. Some people are turned off by Bullock's role as are the males characters she catches in the role double-cross -- those men she sleeps with and leave behind degrade her character just as much as they would sleep with available women,  "},{"Title":"Very powerful movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This had to be one of the most powerful movies I have seen this year. Great acting added a lot to this movie as well. Sandra Bullock did an excellent job playing her role (better than she did in Miss Congeniality). A great plot with interesting twists just added to the excitment. All in all, an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"This movie will never leave my mind.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I found no words to describe this movie. I was left breathless everyones' performance in the movie. I honestly can't get my mind of it. The actors seemed to be like a puzzle and just fit perfectly. It may be true that it didn't win an Oscar, but not all good movies do. We have to remember that everyone has a different opinion on things. For me it is that This was just a great movie that will never leave my mind. "}{"Title":"Two great performances, one great script selection and good performance","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are three standouts to be considered here. First is Sandra Bullock..for being Exec Prod of this one. IF she selected this script, then she truly knows her own acting chops. And it was great to have a woman take the lead in a murder mystery. The other two stand outs are Gosling and Pitt whose depiction of their roles and subtext of their relationship should have been recognized in some sort of awards. They both are truly destined for impressive performances on the right roles that hopefully be coming their way.  First portion of the film is SLOOOOOWWWWW and doesn't need to be...even a slight speedup would have been welcomed. And once the story started to move along it becomes addictive. And the twists and turns that occur kept everyone predicting different outcomes. Again cudos to Gosling and Pitt! "},{"Title":"explanation for those who don't understand the title","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ********there are some SPOILERS*************I noticed some people didn't understand the title, which means they probably weren't paying very close attention to the movie.  There are parts where the boys are talking about how to get away with the murder, like what they need to do not to leave any DNA behind, to set up another guy for the murder, how to play the cops, i think they even have a book.  So, they are following all these rules or ways cops find killers, they find out how cops go about finding killers and make sure they do everything to keep evidence from pointing at them.  Thus, they are murdering by the rules (or the numbers). Maybe people who don't understand the title have never heard the expression of doing something by the numbers, following it each step, each rule. "},{"Title":"Let the mind games begin.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Conventional movie thrillers make their audience scared and are usually full of suspense. So it was refreshing for me to watch a thriller with a difference, that being 2002's &#145;Murder by numbers' starring Hollywood beauty, Sandra Bullock. Not hearing a word about this film certainly helped me in not having an opinion before I watched it, in addition to the fact that thrillers are one of my favourite movie genres. &#145;Murder by Numbers' is a taut and exciting thriller.Cassie Mayweather is an unorthodox homicide detective, who along with her new partner Sam Kennedy, is investigating the brutal murder of a young woman found abandoned in a ditch. Despite all the clues pointing one way, there's something just too perfect about the way in which the forensic evidence leads to one obvious perpetrator. Whilst confronting her own personal demons, Cassie must follow her instincts about tracking down the real killers before they strike again. There was a great little cast assembled for this movie. I am a big fan of Sandra Bullock, who plays Cassie Mayweather. I like how she brings a serious character to the screen, when essentially she is a comedic type of actor. Her character is a fine police detective, but the men in the force refer to her as the &#145;hyena', with good reason. Cassie has many skeletons in the closet and she has to face them or her life will not be right at all. Co-starring with Bullock is Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin), who is also a fine cop, but finds some of Mayweather's ways just a little strange.Yet the young cast members here were the highlight for me. Richard (Ryan Gosling and Justin (Michael Pitt) are two teenagers with some what boring lives. There is one girl that comes between Richard and Justin, the beautiful Lisa (Agnes Bruckner). The line that best describes these boys is said by Cassie, &#145;They are like orphans with credit cards, school is too easy, they don't have jobs or chores. Nothing is expected of them, nothing they do matters, to them or anybody else. So they figure, why not kill somebody? Maybe that will matter!' This is essentially what the movie is about, but it is the planning that the pair does in making the crime not so easy for the cops to work out, and the randomness in choosing their victim, that was the highlight for me, in addition to the weird relationship that this pair have. Michael Pitt was a part of the 2001 controversial movie, &#145;Bully'.  Murder by numbers' story was cleverly written by Tony Gayton. I enjoyed the elements of &#145;the boy's crime' that were a little bit different. I am sure that it would have been difficult to make the story seem correct, considering how confusing a plot it really had. Tony's characters were also well written. Then to make this movie would have also been a challenge. That was left up to director Barbet Schroeder who did a fine job. I like the flashback elements that she presented for the movie, in addition to the way that we get to really feel for the characters' of Cassie and Justin. The movie also starts well, which I feel is the good work of Schroeder. Sandra Bullock was also an executive producer of the film, which I believe helped enhance this movie all the more. But for a thriller to succeed, it also needs a &#145;thrilling soundtrack'. This film did have such a soundtrack, making many of the vital scenes have a much greater impact and all the more thrilling.  It was a shock to find out that two of this movie's stars, are actually somewhat of an item at the moment. They are Sandra Bullock, 38, and Ryan Gosling, 22. I am not sure whether these two really suit each other, but it is up to the individual who they do and don't date. From my resources, I found this funny quote, &#145;when Gosling was asked if he was smitten with Bullock, Gosling replied Don't say I'm sweet with her. Say I'm taken with her'. Interesting, very interesting. In times where school murders and other scenarios are going on (especially in the USA), I found the whole story to this film fascinating. So were the characters of Justin and Richard, who were, I have found out, loosely based on real-life murderers, Richard Loeb and Nathan Leopold Jr., who planned their own &#145;perfect murder'.  So with all this in prospective, if you are looking randomly around your video store for a good video to watch, then I say you cannot go past &#145;Murder by numbers'.CMRS gives &#145;Murder by Numbers' 4.5 (Very Good &#150; Brilliant Film) "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was a fantastic psychological thriller! I thought it was challenging to follow, which made it compelling to watch. A great twist at the end. I thought the acting was really believable by all, and the characters were all really well developed. I thought Sandra was pretty amazing, her performance was really credible, and she made it all so realistic. A fab movie! "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is boring and predictable. It is completely devoid of any mystery or suspense. Two kids commit a murder and frame a third person. Our heroine immediately suspects the real culprits, and she quickly gathers enough evidence to convince her colleagues. Not a great movie. "},{"Title":"My Rating is 7 - Above Average Thriller. A very good movie to watch and understand.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching 'Murder By Numbers'. The script was very good with clever twists at the end of the movie. It could have been more realistic. Sandra Bullock is a versatile actress you can play different types of roles. In this movie she proved again that she can perform with style and conviction. The 2 young actors were very convincing killers. "},{"Title":"Monotony by numbers","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have seen so far this year. The only good thing about my waste of rental money is whatever I rent in the future cannot possibly be as bad. I think Sandra Bullock must have been hypnotised as no normal actress would appear in such utter garbage. Studios should be taken to court and fined for inflicting this dirge on people "},{"Title":"Ho hum suspense thriller","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ****  CONTAIN SPOILERS *****This film is pretty slow paced, barely making its audience break out a sweat.There was two plots going on simultaneously, one about the investigation on the murder of a woman in which the identities of the guys who did it are not hidden.  The other being the lead detective Cassie, played by Sandra Bullock, dealing with her dark past.The first plot is mildly more interesting, with a couple of kids plotting a murder with all the forensics details planned out so as to confuse the investigators.  What makes it interesting is the dynamics between the two kids, both from vastly different background, mutually coming together because of their one thing in common resulting in their constant need to be depended on each other.Beyond that, other parts of the story does not go so great.  Such as when one of our calculating killer who studied every aspect of forensic evidence and how to forge them, happens to vomits while dumping the body and forgets to clean up after himself.  And they plant evidence so as to produce a conflicting profile of the killer, while letting the trail lead to a suspect that is complete opposite of what the investigators were expecting, leading to suspicion.  Not very good if you want to have an open and shut case pointing to a third person.Compared to the much more realistic NYPD Blues, the dual interrogation that takes place looks pretty lame, with the investigators laying out their theory and expecting a confession.  Getting none, they slowly start floating the idea of the first one to snitch gets to live.  This is done, as opposed to playing off each of the perpetrators by revealing their theory as the other suspect's admission.  It is much more effective to let the suspects think the incriminating information is obtained from their criminal counterpart as opposed to some wild thing that the detectives dreamed up. As the lawyer for one of the kid shows up and gets him released, they could continue to play the second kid until he breaks down instead of releasing him.I thought the high tech stuff in the interrogation rooms was going to delve deeper into the suspects than what could be seen with they naked eye, like voice stress analysis, IR camera for heat distribution in the body and perspiration buildup.  But none of those things were there.  It was a lot of gadgety setup over nothing.The detective's work seems pretty shoddy for someone who is the best. Missing the ring on the suspect in the first place, apprehending the suspects by telling one to come over and forgetting the other one.  They were all critical things in which it affects the story, so I guess they were written in that way.As to the second plot, it is a total waste of time.  It is about Cassie, being a victim herself in the past, and having it rule her life.  Turning her into some character in which her co-workers label as hyena.  There is almost no purpose to this subplot, except for the fact she now automatically identifies self-centered rich kids as suspects because she thinks they think they could get away with anything.  More of a convenient feature so she could jump from A-Z without investigating the B-Y part.There were a few too many of those `Don't go there scenes' for my liking, turning it into one of those cliché ploys used in slasher movies.  And the final climax with the fake suicide, sudden burst of strength from a person on the verge of passing out and dying, the collapse of the porch, and of course the handling of the stick.  It was just too over the top.The acting was forgetful by Sandra Bullock, she seems to either knows how to play romantic comedy or tomboy roles, with nothing in between.  The only person who was good was Michael Pitt, who played the mysterious recluse genius Justin.All in all, nothing great about the film, but watch-able except for some of the hollywood add-ons. "},{"Title":"How hum police thriller","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers!! This film is pretty slow paced, barely making its audience break out a sweat.There was two plots going on simultaneously, one about the investigation on the murder of a woman in which the identities of the guys who did it are not hidden.  The other being the lead detective Cassie, played by Sandra Bullock, dealing with her dark past.The first plot is mildly more interesting, with a couple of kids plotting a murder with all the forensics details planned out so as to confuse the investigators. But one of our calculating killer who studied every aspect of forensic evidence and how to forge them, happens to vomits while dumping the body and forgets to clean up after himself.  And they plant evidence so as to produce a conflicting profile of the killer, while letting the trail lead to a suspect that is complete opposite of what the investigators were expecting.  Not very good if you want to have an open and shut case pointing to that person.Compared to the much more realistic NYPD Blues, the dual interrogation that takes place looks pretty lame, with the investigators laying out their theory and expecting a confession, getting none, they slowly start floating the idea of the first one to snitch gets to live.  This is as opposed to playing off each of the perpetrators by revealing their theory as the other suspect's admission.  It is much more effective to let the suspects think the incriminating information is obtained from their criminal counterpart as opposed to some wild thing that the detectives dreamed up.  And at the end, even if one of the kid's release is obtained by his lawyer, they could continue to play the second kid until he breaks instead of releasing him.I thought the high tech stuff in the interrogation rooms was going to delve deeper into the suspects than what could be seen with they eye, like voice stress analysis, IR camera for heat distribution in the body and perspiration buildup.  But none of those things were there.  It was a lot of hype over nothing.The detective's work seems pretty shoddy for someone who is the best. Missing the ring on the suspect in the first place, apprehending the suspects by telling one to come over and forgetting the other one.  They were all critical things in which it affects the story.As to the second plot, it is a total waste of time.  It is about Cassie, having being a victim herself in the past and having it rule her life. Turning her into some character in which her co-workers label as hyena. There is almost no purpose to this subplot, except for the fact she now automatically identifies self-centered rich kids as suspects because she thinks they think they could get away with anything.There were a few too many of those `Don't go there scenes' for my liking, turning it into one of those cliché scenes in slasher movies.  And the final climax with the fake suicide, sudden burst of strength from a person on the verge of passing out and dying, the collapse of the porch, and of course the handling of the stick.  It was just too over the top.The acting was forgetful by Sandra Bullock, she seems to either knows how to play romantic comedy or tomboy roles, with nothing in between.  The only person who was good was Michael Pitt, whole played the mysterious recluse genius Justin.All in all, nothing great about it, but watch-able except for some of the hollywood add-ons.  "},{"Title":"How hum police thriller","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is pretty slow paced, barely making its audience break out a sweat.There was two plots going on simultaneously, one about the investigation on the murder of a woman in which the identities of the guys who did it are not hidden.  The other being the lead detective Cassie, played by Sandra Bullock, dealing with her dark past.The first plot is mildly more interesting, with a couple of kids plotting a murder with all the forensics details planned out so as to confuse the investigators. But one of our calculating killer who studied every aspect of forensic evidence and how to forge them, happens to vomits while dumping the body and forgets to clean up after himself.  And they plant evidence so as to produce a conflicting profile of the killer, while letting the trail lead to a suspect that is complete opposite of what the investigators were expecting.  Not very good if you want to have an open and shut case pointing to that person.Compared to the much more realistic NYPD Blues, the dual interrogation that takes place looks pretty lame, with the investigators laying out their theory and expecting a confession, getting none, they slowly start floating the idea of the first one to snitch gets to live.  This is as opposed to playing off each of the perpetrators by revealing their theory as the other suspect's admission.  It is much more effective to let the suspects think the incriminating information is obtained from their criminal counterpart as opposed to some wild thing that the detectives dreamed up.  And at the end, even if one of the kid's release is obtained by his lawyer, they could continue to play the second kid until he breaks instead of releasing him.I thought the high tech stuff in the interrogation rooms was going to delve deeper into the suspects than what could be seen with they eye, like voice stress analysis, IR camera for heat distribution in the body and perspiration buildup.  But none of those things were there.  It was a lot of hype over nothing.The detective's work seems pretty shoddy for someone who is the best. Missing the ring on the suspect in the first place, apprehending the suspects by telling one to come over and forgetting the other one.  They were all critical things in which it affects the story.As to the second plot, it is a total waste of time.  It is about Cassie, having being a victim herself in the past and having it rule her life. Turning her into some character in which her co-workers label as hyena. There is almost no purpose to this subplot, except for the fact she now automatically identifies self-centered rich kids as suspects because she thinks they think they could get away with anything.There were a few too many of those `Don't go there scenes' for my liking, turning it into one of those cliché scenes in slasher movies.  And the final climax with the fake suicide, sudden burst of strength from a person on the verge of passing out and dying, the collapse of the porch, and of course the handling of the stick.  It was just too over the top.The acting was forgetful by Sandra Bullock, she seems to either knows how to play romantic comedy or tomboy roles, with nothing in between.  The only person who was good was Michael Pitt, whole played the mysterious recluse genius Justin.All in all, nothing great about it, but watch-able except for some of the hollywood add-ons.  "}{"Title":"Poorest by far!!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like the killers in the movie who failed at trying to be witty and interesting, so has this movie.  The plot was slow, boring, and the cast just couldn't support it.  There were also some scenes that I thought were just ridiculous.  This is definitely one of Sandra Bullocks poorest films and one of the poorest of all time.   "},{"Title":"It's a thrill to kill could be an alternate title.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  By whatever name you call Sandra Bullock's Murder by Numbers (2002), you can be sure you're in for your money's worth.  It's an action movie with a minimum of motion, but that does not deter intensity.  Further, it is a violent movie without excess visual gore, allowing the viewer to fill in the blanks, which provides a greater personal impact.  Special effects are held to a minimum, enhancing reality.  Pure professional input helps rate this offering as one of the best of the year.  The generational differences makes this an excellent feature for all ages. And it is chuck full of surprises to hold your interest right up to the credits rolling. "},{"Title":"Interesting by lacks inspiration","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In watching this movie I was ready for a classic mind bender.  Intelligence meets street smarts.  In touting the movie one gets the feeling that there is a series of murders all done up in a fashion to confuse and boggle modern thought and forensics.  Not so.  The boys get bored, read up on crime scene investigation and get caught because our street wise cop just doesn't like things so simple.  Don't get me wrong, this is a decent movie and worth a rental but it's not the dramatic rip through your brains that say, The Usual Suspects is.  I finished watching the movie and thought it was good.  But good was not a positive thing.  Anyone in Hoolywood can make a movie that is good, I want great, inspiring and emotional.  I never felt like the kids were winning in the struggle.  I never doubted they'd get caught.Lastly, I was disappointed in Sandra Bullock.  Again, not her fault as she played it off as she was supposed to.  Did I buy any romance or love, not really.  Did I see her defense mechanism was sex and not care?  you bet.  She was so obviously cold you didn't buy it when she all of a sudden felt better and new how to fix things.  It wasn't very well developed in that regard.  She can play tough women but she has done it with a sense of vulnerability before (see the Net, a good mix of tough and vulnerable).  She just seemed too determined to be tough because she was playing a cop.Overall, a decent movie, worth my time and odd enough to be interesting.  Ultimately, not a great movie, because it fails to make enough twists and turns and fails to pit the immense intelligence of the young men against the qualified street smarts of the cops.  It was good enough, but could have been more. "},{"Title":"Why me?","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I sat through this predictable pile of dung last night. It's rare that a group of people can all give their worst on the same project but that's exactly what we have here -- an unmitigated disaster on the level of Young Einstein and Look Who's Talking Now.The brain pain that inevitably results from viewing Murder by Numbers can be blamed in equal parts on the screenwriter (for some of the most transparent plot twists since Weekend at Bernies) and our star, Sandy Bullock. Sandy, reprising her favorite lonely-female-with-a-troubled-past role, performed with all of the subtlety of Elizabeth Berkeley in Showgirls.At least I got lucky afterward.Thanks for nothing, Sandy. "},{"Title":"Tiresome","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1. No real focus to the film 2. What in the world did her relationship with her husband have to do with this film? 3. What did her relationship with other men have to do with the film? 4. The film was about the relationship between the boys and that is where the focus should have started and ended.  5. Sandra, we're still waiting for you to do a really good film! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers was a good movie.   It was about a detective named Cassie (Sandra Bullock) trying to prove that she had the right murder suspects.   Cassie was also trying to overcome her troubled past.   Throughout the movie she is battling both herself and the obstacles to solving the murder.   There are some twists and turns throughout this movie.   In conclusion this is a movie worth watching.    "},{"Title":"Typical Sandra Bullock Chick-Flick. Stupid.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Im sorry, did someone make a mistake? A thriller did i hear you say? Well i didnt really expect much before seeing Murder by Numbers, it really wasnt my kind of movie. And how many murder's exactly were there? 1? And what was with the silly make no sense sub-plot that Cassie (Sandra Bullock) keeps dreaming about. It had no meaning in the movie? Was that her arm that she raised were her finger is cut off, and the cop gasps Terry, shes still alive...?For one, this movie doesnt evaluate its plot. Sure, it starts off well and good. We meet the typical teenage angsters Justin (Michael Pitt) the class nerd, and Richard (Ryan Gosling) as the class clown. As we soon see, oposites attract, and they plan there murders(im sorry, MURDER, just ONE(1). And thats basically the plot of the movie. Its obvious that after the first 30 or so minutes if this, that Cassie, and her new partner, Sam (Ben Kennedy) know who there suspects are, and of course, the rest of the movie drags into, how they did, but they couldnt of done it,we have no evidence, lets just let them go oh, so thats how they did it. It doesnt make things any better, when silly Sandra Bullock romance scenes and wise crack comedies that made me laugh,  such as the time she wants to have sex with her new partner, and tells him that she respects him as a person, and then snickers, i mean, this is no Forces of Nature, but of course, what would you expect from a Sandra Bullock film.It just makes no sense. It is done badly, and drags on. You think it will end, and then you just hope, and pray that the credits hurry up and start to roll. Its predictable, and doesnt deserve the rating of 6.1(at time of writing this review) that it already has.Its not a thriller, it doesnt deserve to be put into the thriller category. Its more a drama, a comedy.Watch TV's Law and Order series, much better crime thriller than what you'll find her.Silly, Mild, Long, Painful, Avoid.*1/2OUTOF***** "},{"Title":"Very well written and directed film minus Sandra Bullock","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a well written, well directed and well acted film. It kept me on the edge of my seat most of the time.  I was just having a hard time accepting Sandra Bullock as a bad ass cop with a past that haunts her.  I just see her as a sweet thing that couldn't harm a fly. "},{"Title":"Implausible but engaging murder mystery","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an interesting detective flick that could have been much better.  The story is a contemporary twist on the standard crime drama where the diabolical murderers try to outsmart the wily detective.  The contemporary twist is that the murderers are two high school students who are brilliant but bored, so they decide to plan the perfect murder and play a cat and mouse game with the police.Therein lies the flaw.  It is plausible that high school students could go on a killing spree because they are angry, frustrated or alienated (we have unfortunately seen too much of this phenomenon), but boredom doesn't produce this level of methodical evil.  Also, when teens like this snap, the result is messy, not cold and calculated as depicted here.Director Barbet Schroeder (Single White Female) presents these kids as normal high school students who simply decided that their brand of mischief would be murder.  It might have been more believable if they showed some sociopathic tendencies, but other than the murder, they seem like regular kids.  The union of two kids who are so different, the intropsective loner Justin (Michael Pitt) and the popular rich kid Richard (Ryan Gosling), also fails to resonate.  They supposedly met when Justin was tutoring Richard, which is utterly implausible given the fact that Richard is portrayed as being extremely bright himself.  Also, these types of kids generally have a natural disdain for one another in real life.The script also bogs down with unnecessary plot elements like Cassie's (Sandra Bullock) mysterious past and a relationship with her partner.  This is an attempt to develop Cassie in a way that has little bearing on the main storyline, and the subplot klunks annoyingly away like a square wheel.The gathering of forensic evidence and the deductive reasoning that follows is fascinating along with the boys manipulation of the evidence to point the detectives in the wrong direction.  Cassie's intuitive approach to the evidence is also well scripted.The acting by the boys is well done, with both creating believable characters.  Pitt is moody, sensitive and introspective and renders a tortured character that tries to appear far more confident than he really is.  Gosling gives Richard a cocky bravado that reminded me of James Caan.  He creates a character that is manipulative and cunning.Sandra Bullock is a terrific actress, but she seems out of place in this role.  Part of the problem is that her character is given too much excess baggage with which to to deal.  She plays Cassie far too tentatively considering this is a female characters that other cops call the hyena.  She seems intimidated by confrontations.  She is completely dominated in the confrontation with the teenage Richard, but she is also weak in scenes with her boss and her partner.  She is much better in the subplot regarding her anguish over her past and the uneasy relationship she has with her partner.  Unfortunately, this is the most irrelevant component of the script.This film has some interesting elements, but the pieces fail to come together.  Bullock's middling performance along with an unbelievable story reduce this film to mediocrity.  I rated it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Horribly Bad Tripe","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Horribly bad tripe with a script that sounds like a bad, amateurish soap opera. It's really difficult to believe this film got made.The premise is somewhat interesting, two teenagers looking to plot the perfect murder for their own selfish reasons (and feelings of superiority) and a curious relationship. From after the first 5 minutes, it's straight downhill from there. Strange occurrences make no sense, characters acting in a manner completely inconsistent with any sense of reality, logic, or other rational thinking. Worse, the movie is incredibly predictable.While I usually cut films a little slack, this one has no redeeming qualities other than just mentioned. Sandra Bullock directs and acts in this picture (and completely miscasts herself) and this is one she should bury. Unfortunately, it might be a message not to quit her day job. "}{"Title":"Was it just me?","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Was it just me or did anyone else notice the massive boom microphone making a cameo appearance right in the middle of a pivotal dialogue scene in this film? In the scene where Ben Chaplin and Sandra Bullock interview the baddie Richard in the high school gymnasium, there's a very irritating boom mike just wiggling around the background. Now I'm not a film geek by any stretch of the imagination and I hardly ever notice these things but the whole cinema gasped - it was glaringly obvious. I'm sure they could have edited it out during post-production -that is just so sloppy and lazy.Which brings me to my review of this film. Take a good plot, snappy dialogue, interesting bad guys, excellent acting from Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling and then add pointless emotional sub-plot and truly sloppy direction and editing and you have this sadly flat and disappointing psycho-thriller wannabe. Could have rocked but instead it sucked - I actually left the cinema thinking that I could have done a better job realising the script using a $99 buck camcorder to film my mates ham it up in the back yard... "},{"Title":"Ho hum","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Let's see, in this script, the lead is a knowledgeable but disgruntled cop with a tortured soul who seems to alienate everyone around. Let's get Sandra Bullock!Of course, Bullock was one of the producers of the film so I'm sure everything was set up for her in mind, but boy, was she miscast. At no time do you ever buy her in this role.  Pretty much most of the time I cringed at her lines and actions and could never buy into this story, despite it being based on the real life events of Leopold and Loeb, who actually did this in the 1920s.I personally didn't think any role was cast well. One of the high school kids looked more like a Baldwin brother in his early 20s. The story is predictable and I don't know, maybe would have worked with other actors. Either way, I barely finished watching this movie. This isn't worth renting. "},{"Title":"It held my interest","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a big Sandra Bullock fan, I just like thrillers, and I picked this rental up for lack of anything else I wanted to see. I was surprised that I was captivated by it in a morbid way.It's about a couple of bored teenage boys - one very bright, one very rich and popular, who have a secret friendship, and decide to commit the perfect murder. They kill an innocent woman chosen randomly, and leave clues to point the cops in the direction of another innocent person. After the case is wrapped up and the murderer commits suicide, they think they are home free and become careless in their conversations with Bullock, the cop who has a nagging feeling they are involved and continues to investigate them.I did not much care for Bullock's character, she has a chip on her shoulder and personal problems I didn't care about at all. I thought the best part of this movie was the young actors who played Richard the Justin. I thought they were very good at portraying a young man who only cares for himself, and a young man who only wants to be as strong as his friend and please him.I was surprised at the ending the first time, but watching it a second time I saw things that I missed that should have led me to that conclusion. I thought it engrossing and chilling, and I think it definitely is worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Old Math","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It was quite by coincidence, that a little while before I watched `Murder by Numbers' I saw the closing scene of the `Maltese Falcon', to see Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astor play out the end game of this classic, artful murder mystery. Having seen the scene time after time I watched for those few badly edited camera angle changes. They didn't matter at all.Now that's a murder mystery!Or perhaps it's that I've grown accustom to the heart pounding realism of digitally enhanced action movies.Whatever the reason, whether Sam Spade or high tech, &#145;Murder by Numbers' is a long boring story, of an old movie formula  that, in least in my opinion, has been overplayed. Unfortunately, Sandra Bullock's very good portrayal of an emotionally scarred homicide detective is lost in this very dull screenplay. Ryan Gosling deserves credit too because of his excellent portrayal as &#145;the heavy' (A new American gigolo?), and if you can make it  to the last half hour of this film, you'll be rewarded with an excellent (if slightly unbelievable) action ending.There are some stereo-types in this movie that should have been done without. In particular, the parentless wealthy teenager, and the male-chauvinistic police department, with one solitary women detective.Both portrayals are insensitive to recent events, as anyone who watches at least 30 minutes of network news a day can see for themselves.All in all, it's okay entertainment, and if you feel compelled to rent it, don't make it the main feature.FM       "},{"Title":"Not all that bad.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if it's as bad as watching paint dry now come on. That would be pretty boring. But it could have been better. I expected more from the writer of THE SALTON SEA, a movie which I absolutely loved buy hey you can't win &#145;em all.  Sandra Bullock produces and stars in this film. In it she plays a detective with inner demons that are revealed ass the plot progresses. She investigates a murder while training her new partner (Ben Chaplin; THE THIN RED LINE) in the ways of detective work, among other things. But Bullock and Chaplin are th edull, boring parts of the film. When it comes to the killer kids (played brilliantly by Ryan Gosling of REMEMBER THE TITANS and Michael Pitt who also played a killer kid in BULLY) that's when the excitement begins. These kids are demented, devious, psychotic, and loads of fun. I wish they could have been the only characters in the film because they were so entertaining! They commit a murder just for the thrill! Now that's insane! Both of these young actors, Gosling and Pitt, are sure to go far in Hollywood.   "},{"Title":"Great for Bullock fans","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  oh my god. This is totally a movie for Sandra Bullock -fans, so if you don't like Sandra then I can't imagne you would like this movie. I thought it was great, totally brilliant. And not only because Sandra, who by the way was exellent for the roll, it was just all the exitement and great thinking of this movie that made it so great! I couldn't imagne it with another person than Sandra though.  "},{"Title":"Not all that bad.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if it's as bad as watching paint dry now come on. That would be pretty boring. But it could have been better. I expected more from the writer of THE SALTON SEA, a movie which I absolutely loved buy hey you can't win &#145;em all.  Sandra Bullock produces and stars in this film. In it she plays a detective with inner demons that are revealed ass the plot progresses. She investigates a murder while training her new partner (Ben Chaplin; THE THIN RED LINE) in the ways of detective work, among other things. But Bullock and Chaplin are th edull, boring parts of the film. When it comes to the killer kids (played brilliantly by Ryan Gosling of REMEMBER THE TITANS and Michael Pitt who also played a killer kid in BULLY) that's when the excitement begins. These kids are demented, devious, psychotic, and loads of fun. I wish they could have been the only characters in the film because they were so entertaining! They commit a murder just for the thrill! Now that's insane! Both of these young actors, Gosling and Pitt, are sure to go far in Hollywood.   "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film, for me, was a very solid, entertaining film.  It also makes you think a bit.  Reading the reviews, I see that most of them are negative or indifferent.  Also from reading them, I think often the case is that the people who saw it didn't understand it.  Just to make a few points1.) This film pretty much tells you from the beginning that it is not a who-dun-it, so it is illogical after that point to expect a mystery.  We are told from the beginning who did it.  That's not what's important in this movie. 2.) I think some people didn't like the film because Sandra Bullock was in it and was the Executive Producer.  I personally think that is a silly reason not to like a movie.  If you don't like an actor/actress, don't go see their movies!  And who really cares if a person you don't like produced a film?  I've seen plenty films where an actor I don't like has been in it and I've still been able to enjoy it. Now one reason why people didn't like it that I can understand is the fact that it is in a big part a philosophical film.  I can understand people not liking philosophy.  Personally, I like it, but I know plenty people don't. Anyway, I really liked this movie.  I especially loved Pitt and Gosling's performances.  They really deserve recognition for them.  They did a great job of becoming their characters.  Not that Bullock and Chaplin did a bad job.  I enjoyed their performances, especially Chaplin's since he had such an understated role. Finally, this film just really intrigued me.  I have a great interest in the criminal justice system and anything related to it.  I have also been intrigued for a long time by the predisposition of man to do bad things.  In real life the thought of psychopaths and sociopaths scares me but in film, TV, and books I have real fun with it.  The fact that they exist is both interesting and frightening. For anyone who enjoys a good philosophical crime film and errie and great performances by talented actors/actresses, I recommend this film.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film intended to be much more than an usual detective story. This is the first film that I remember trying to approach the subject of the teenage killers in the US, and I wonder why - the subject is one of the most painful in the American society today. It tries to do it by showing two high school kids planning and executing a totally unjustified murder, just to prove themselves, a la 'Crime and Punishment'. This would be the better part, the other half is unfortunately much worse. Detective Sandra Bullock - troubled herself by a murder tentative in her past tries to solve the case, and she will do it at the price of two painful hours of screen experience.The way the film is directed and acted is simply not interesting. The relationship between the detective played by Bullock and her partner is conventional, they have a narrow-minded boss we seem to have seen in hundred of other films, the action lacks pace. The actors talent is just wasted. 'Murder by Numbers' (why this title?) is boring - if you ran out of sleeping pills, and 'Blockbuster' is closer than the pharmacy, you may enter and rent this film instead "},{"Title":"Good story and acting","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For this type of movie, the story and acting were exceptionally good.  The characters were developed instead of being the usual one-dimensional Hollywood characters.  And Sandra Bullock -- what can I say? -- beautiful and talented. "}{"Title":"Movie by numbers","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In Murder by Numbers, a miscast Bullock fails to nail the nuances required of her role as a tough homicide cop with issues while awash in a forensic la-la-land trying to wrest confessions from a couple of high school students who think they have committed the perfect murder complete with victim, perp, and clues up the wazoo. An unfortunate Hollywood bowzer, the film is busy enough and polished enough that the dozing couch potato may overlook the many plot-flaws, predictability, and clumsy thriller-filler ending. All others beware of the old Hollywood hype scam and watch this on video as you may want to do some fast-forwarding. (C+) "},{"Title":"Utterly forgettable...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...thriller with Sandra Bullock.I found this movie very little interesting.It`s not especially exciting,it lacks suspense and it`s too long.Main reason for why I found this movie boring isYou don`t really care for some of the persons involved.Many people on this site says that some of the things Sandra does makes little sense.I agree. And all this romantic bullshit,Sandra are so in for having sex with partner Ben Chaplin....uugh! It`s just for stretching the time.Sorry Bullock,you are not a great actress.You`re not convincing enough....and you are posing more than acting. Some positive things should come up-Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt are pretty good.Not 100% convincing,but OK enough.They are the only interesting characters in this predictable BY THE NUMBERS thriller.Avoid this one,save your money...Rating  2/10 "},{"Title":"Surprise ending to an otherwise poor movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm happy to register that Imdb users have been very accurate on their comments about this movie. I had read some of them before seeing the movie and now that I've seen it, I can only concur.It was a very poor movie, especially for the whole first hour. It's boring, the story has huge flaws and lots of those things that you immediately know would never happen in real life. It even has some clichés, which is never a good thing, for me, at least. I saw Sandra Bullock at her worst but a very good performance by Ryan Gosling whose work I didn't really know.Anyway, somewhere in the middle, it starts to get interesting and there's actually not only one, but many surprising turnarounds, which I guess make it a bit worthwhile.The truth is that I was anticipating a good movie, got my feet back to earth with the comments I read, and ended up with a feeling of disappointment, because I always thought, and I still do, that the plot, the story, was very promising.Sorry Sandra. Only 5/10 "},{"Title":"Dull Crime Thriller!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Extremely boring and unconvincing crime thriller where two psycho boys commited a murder just to prove to themselves that they are genious. But they have to confront smart police officer (Bullock) who take up the investigation of the case. Predictable, dull and unsuspenseful. A waste of time, in fact. I give this a 4 (four). "},{"Title":"Movie by numbers","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cute, doe-eyed and snub-nosed Sandra Bullock came to our attention in action movies like Speed and The Net but has become best-known and well-liked in a string of romantic comedies such as While You Were Sleeping and Forces Of Nature. Murder By Numbers is clearly her attempt to strike out into tougher characterisations, since here she is a homicide investigator, seemingly with a male attitude to sex, seeking to bring to justice two amoral teenagers who think that they have committed the undetectable crime. It doesn't really work and Bullock is either going to have to find better scripts or revert to type.  "},{"Title":"Why Sandra Bullock?","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie itself is great, two intelligent and bored students planing a murder. Two boys expiring to the insanity. Ok, you need a cop to solve this case, but is anyone really interested in the life of this cop, played by Sandra Bullock? Not really. This film could be the best film ever, but Sandra Bullock's part destroys the great crazy, brutal with a touch of intelligence tendency. Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt are fantastic actors and make this movie an unusual movie full of mysterious moments. If Mrs Bullock wouldn'T have produced this movie, she would have never got such a big role because her role is really unimportant. But though all that, it's the best film i'Ve seen for a long time. "},{"Title":"A lot like a good Columbo Episode, but would you go to the Movies to see Columbo?","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching 'Murder by Numbers' I kept waiting for the moment that would justify why this movie was made for Theaters and not as a Television production. It never came.Let me get this right, I had a really good time watching this movie. There have been many movies in which the viewer would know from the beginning how a murder or another crime was conducted. Not many of them managed to make it interesting to see how the investigators collected all the clues and tried to figure out who did it (-> Columbo!).There is one thing that all the movies which succeeded at this had in common The totally concentrated on the investigation and at max a very minor subplots (again Columbo's car for example) to loosen things up.Murder by Numbers didn't do that! In fact there are almost as many subplots, as there are in a whole season of any soap opera on screen today. There's the new Partner, there's the 'dark' past of one of the investigators, there's the two investigators having trouble with the DA, there's the sexual tension between Cassie and Ben Chaplin's character, there's the whole criminal investigation technique challenge, there's the struggle between the two partners in crime, there's....I could go on a whole page with all those subplots.It seemed amazing that Barbet Schroeder managed to keep all those loose ends of the story together, at least as good as the weird format allowed for. Even more amazing was how I still enjoyed this movie. I think this is because of the really good cast. Most reviewers especially praised Gosling's and Pitt's performance, and I totally agree with that. But the other two main characters were portrayed just as well by Bullock and Chaplin.Sandra Bullock still seems to want to prove something which has already become an acknowledged fact She can successfully act outside a comedic/romantic movie! But she still seems to think she needs to get more serious, to prove something. As long as her performance stays on the same high level as it is in Murder by Numbers it will be all right with me.After all MBN is a good movie, though it will be just as much joy seeing it as a DVD in 6 Months, as it was seeing it at the movies. The time is well spend watching it. Recommended to Thriller/Suspense fans who won't miss the not existing action in this movie.**** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Rope, Compulsion, and Swoon were by far superior to this dreary thriller.","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very disappointing movie, that manages to waste the talents of all involved.Basically an updating of the previous three movies Rope, Compulsion, and Swoon - all of these were by far superior.The two young murderers are not nearly malicious enough, and therefore not at all chilling.Sandra Bullock gives a solid performance, but really whatever this movie had going for it was already lost in pre-production.Dull and overlong, this very simple story tries to invest twists and turns that only serve to highlight the fact that the plot and construction is too simple and one-dimensional, and looses interest almost instantly.Unoriginal and unbearable. "},{"Title":"The Theory and Practice of Free Living","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many attempts at putting moral philosophy on screen (such as Superman II, Alien II, Red Dawn), lose sight of their primary mission to entertain an audience, become preachy and boring, and fail miserably either to entertain or to teach.  Not this film! This is not mind candy.  This stuff is red meat, well-seasoned, to be savored, perhaps with some fava beans and a nice Chianti!This psychological chiller plays on the premise, Never fight a battle of wits with an unarmed man, who in this case is a disarmed woman. Detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) battles her own internal demons badly, while alienating her boss, colleagues, a big local mayoral campaign contributor, and the Police Department shrink.  While Mayweather is self-imprisoned by inner conflict that she fears to face, she encounters two wealthy juvenile subjects (played by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) who perpetrate a couple of murders just to see how it feels to break the law and get away with it.Philosopher Ayn Rand once wrote that we are absolutely free to do as we wish, and absolutely bound by the consequences of our acts, which principle is amply demonstrated in this script.  Resolution, finally, comes from Mayweather's understudy, Detective Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin), who finally confronts Mayweather with the very thing from her past that she feared the most...and to her surprise, confession is good for the soul. Mayweather, freed from her fear and able to think objectively, gets to the bottom of things, and gets a chance, in the end, to teach the same liberating principle to the young killers, with mixed results.Were this an Aesop fable, the moral of this story would be that the mind, running away in wild thoughts, with no obligation to the body which houses it, loses any clear sense of purpose for its actions.  Ayn Rand was far more succinct, claiming that the false freedom of irrational thought, in time converts the mind into a ghost and the body into a corpse.  Such an eloquent summation eludes the protagonists of this tale, yet, director Barbet Schroeder frames these issues squarely in the film, with stark depictions of killing, lying, domination, submission, cringing, and self-liberation, while leaving summation, judgment, and the risk of flashbacks and nightmares, to the audience. In the end, this film provokes us to ponder the depths of right and wrong, of freedom and bondage, not by telling us we're stupid, but by tantalizing us with the prospect of finding real answers.Can a think movie be entertaining as well?  Look no further than Murder by Numbers for the proof.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a 'must see again'. A film for those who really want to be teased by the mental prosesses of the charactors! If you LOVE crime, detective movies or a movie that adds a bit of reality; you'll love this! Pay attention to every detail of the movie, you'll still want to see it again to see what you missed! "}{"Title":"ugh","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  According to the guidelines, I am not supposed to give away anything about a movie I am commenting on.  Well, no worries here.  If you are surprised by anything in this film, I hope you enjoyed your first movie.The weaknesses of the film can mostly be attributed to the screenplay.  I find it hard to believe that there wasn't any further rewrite.  It came off like a first draft, by a first time writer.  I don't expect every screen writer to be a William Goldman, but I do expect a producer to know when a script sucks.  Particularly because I thought I saw De Niro's name up there. Did the drawn out scenes, the points hammered and re-hammered into the audience, the threads with no where to go but a 'surprise' really look good on paper?What we got was unoriginal and highly predictable.  The dialogue was more like strung together 'lines' and cliched phrases.  Ah, yes, ha-ha, the female detective pees standing up.The best thing about it?The classic Police song never appeared in the movie. "},{"Title":"Far more here than meets the eye","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers is a fascinating piece of work, beautifully realized by Barbet Schroeder, who is incapable of delivering a bad movie.  Here, he manages to evoke with great subtlety the warped dynamic between two boys who -=- SPOILER ALERT -=- are unable to express their feelings of love for each other so instead they indulge in an act of hate to bind themselves in intimacy.  Michael Pitt (who was incredible as Tommy Gnosis in Hedwig and the Angry Inch) and the also-amazing Ryan Gosling infuse their scenes with the perfect undercurrent of sexual tension under Schoeder's shrewd direction, and Sandra Bullock has never been more nuanced as well.  Very satisfying in all aspects and full of (believable and plot-enhancing) twists and turns until the very end. "},{"Title":"Would make a very interesting novel...","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is definitely more interesting than most Hollywood crime dramas in recent years, and despite what many negative critics have said about it's leading lady, I still admire Sandra Bullock and I think it was a great role for her, but that's completely besides the point here... What really gets this film going are the performances by Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt. If only their story was the center of the film, the character development could have been even more phenomenal, and there would have been more of an opportunity for the audience to get to know the two partners in crime. Partners indeed; There was so much tension between Richard and Justin you could cut it with a knife. The two are polar opposites, yin and yang who seemed to find some sort of twisted solace in committing a crime together, since they couldn't seem to hold on to anything else. I also appreciated the references to the great poet Rimbaud-the derangement of the senses, and the film also raises some good questions on human nature and freedom... All this would make a very interesting novel and a hot topic for debate... Above all, Gosling's screen presence and charisma are more than evident. He's unbelievable to watch on screen. If you're still not convinced watch him in The Believer. "},{"Title":"Convincing Sandra yarn","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sandra Bullock pulls off bully female detective quite well and script is enticing leaving viewer interested thoughtout. Two young male leads are equally convincing as the Leopold/Loeb-type character who taunt us with there lack of respect for the human condition. The final scence could have been done much better for credibility but it's forgivable.  "},{"Title":"Yet another heavy drinking, bad attitude, anti-authority, `cop on the edge' movie&#133; If Bruce Willis wore a bra, you'd get Cassie Mayweather.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	I had high hopes for `Murder by Numbers'.  With Sandra Bullock's history playing both comic and dramatic roles well, I anticipated a wild ride.  On the list of the world's wildest rides, this movie was right below the Ferris Wheel at the traveling carnival.  Instead of a thriller, it tried to cross the line into a drama and it failed miserably.    	The film itself was very poorly done.  Schroeder's directing left a lot to be desired, as did the camerawork, which was muddled with far too many incomprehensible flashback sequences, adding more confusion to a plot that already had too much.	The story revolves around two high school students who decide that a good way to make up for their lack of a social life is to get away with a random homicide.	Had this angle of the story been played up more, it may have saved it.  Had the audience seen more of the perpetrators, and much, much less of Bullock's alcohol-induced self-pity, it could have been a rather gripping story.  Instead, the plot focused primarily on the `cop on the edge' side of the plot, examining Sandra Bullock's character's past way too in depth.  I can't help but be reminded of Detective Tom Hardy, played by Bruce Willis in `Striking Distance' an alcoholic cop with a bad attitude, living in a house boat and haunted by a tragic past.  There is a glaring difference between the two however; it worked for Willis.  	Bullock did a fair job acting her character, but her scenes dragged, and since she was in almost every scene, the storyline seemed almost interminable.  The only thing that kept the audience awake was waiting for a plot twist that was perfectly set up, yet never came. 	Anyone who was wondering what the writers of `Matlock' have been up to recently will need to look no further.  Three quarters of the way into the movie, you can almost see the light bulb go on over Bullock's head and she immediately brings in the suspects.  She then proceeds to recount, with stunning accuracy, almost exactly how the crime was committed, and without the burden of a single piece of evidence.  	The only part of this film that is noteworthy are the performances of Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt, who played the two misguided teenagers.  Their performances we eerie and convincing, as we see in detail how they progress from strong and confident murderers to scared and gullible teenagers.   	Overall, `Murder by Numbers' failed on the thriller front, as well as the drama front.  Maybe Bullock should go back to making movies that are entertaining, how about `Speed 3'?   	  "},{"Title":"Overall, Pretty Good","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sure, it could have been better, but mostly everything could have been better. Bullock, as usual, delivers an awsome performance. She plays here typical part (girl with relationship problems) and manages to match the character pretty well. Her character Casey supposedly gets men in a relationship to avoid feeling rejected and then pushes them away before they even get the chance to reject her.The storyline was also pretty good. It is quite thrilling at parts even though you know from the beginning who the murderer is. Bullock plays the detective who is on to the criminal from the beginning. Her task is to prove to her boss, who thinks that she is losing her touch, that she is right.The story does take some unexpected turns in the end. As the movie progresses you learn more about Bullock's past life and why she even became a cop. That part of the story proves to be an interesting side plot.Overall, good movie. I wouldn't say it's a must see, but if you do get the chance, I think you will find it to be mostly entertaining and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"great film I will buy","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went and saw this movie last night May 11th. This movie is great. I didn't know if I was going to like it or not because I didn't know what it was about. Sandra Bullock plays a great role as the main character. I think this is one of her few best movies. Ben Chaplin and Sandra are perfect partners. I like Ben Chaplin role. He is cute. This movie is entertaining and I recommend it to everyone. If you like Sandra Bullock then you will like this movie. I can't wait until the dvd which I will buy.  "},{"Title":"Good acting, flawed script, worse direction","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like Sandra Bullock, but this film, whilst shows her to be a fine actress, is not beyond 'reasonable'.  In fact, all the acting was good.  The script though just tried too hard.  It's as if someone was afraid that a film of two boys wasn't enough, and so threw more in.In short, two boys decided to outwit the law, and commit murder.  They have a complex relationship with each other.  So far, so good.  Except, that we then get not just one or two sub plots, but a few others plots that almost dwarf the original idea.  In the end the plots are not properly expanded, and even trip over each other.  Throw in too many twists (again, I suspect fear that the original idea was too bland), and what we are left with are good actors being made to look inept.At one point near the begining of the film the boys drink 'Absinthe', and talk about how it is illegal in America.  Well, whatever it is they are supposed to be drinking, it is not Absinthe!  Drinking it the way they are shown is physically impossible, and it is the wrong colour too (Absinthe happens to be my drink of choice).In short, watch the film if you like Bullock.  That is about the only reason to do so.  If nothing else this film proves that good actors alone cannot save a film. "},{"Title":"The Title Says It All","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a huge disappointment. It had so much potential to be a good thriller, but missed the boat on too many story lines and awful script. I really hope that Sandra Bullock's new movie is a good one because she has so much potential, she just wastes her talent it seems on bad script writing... "},{"Title":"Hampered by Hollywood Convention","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie that has ideas and is trying to be good, but is hampered by having to come back to thriller conventions, and that I think ultimately ruins the film. I think the biggest problem is the script. It has some interesting ideas, and consistently presents a character or event, and then attempts to subvert it. Unfortunately, this exists alongside of some painfully obvious writing.The worst of this relates to Sandra Bullock's character. She has a past, and every time she thinks about it, the movie grinds to a total halt, and the viewers roll their eyes. This is presented in such a hammer-to-head way that there may as well be a flashing title on the bottom of the screen saying THE PAST! during these scenes.When Sandra reaches for a file with her personal information in it, it may as well be bright yellow with THE PAST written on it in black block letters. Then the moment ends and the movie starts up again... until the next one. When the nature of this event in the past is revealed, it is both too much, too simplistic, and too unrelated to her character.Her character is a screen writing construct, never a real person for one instant. If she were a real person, this woman would not be able to hold down a steady job. By the sixth or seventh time that she has been taken off the case and pleads to reopen it because she's spent her personal time and money... you'll be ready to leave. It's admirable that they try to present such an unpleasant character... but a mainstream thriller does not allow them enough space to follow through as it needs to be. She comes off as just crazy.On top of this, Sandra Bullock is utterly wrong for the role. I admire that she seems to have purposely picked a role that is wrong for her and tries to make something of it, but I guess that there's a difference between a stretch and a role that is just wrong. She doesn't project the authority needed, she subverts her tough lines with her cute delivery (or her I'm super tough now, see! delivery), etc. I don't know why she wants to play these roles. So many have said it's such a departure from Miss Congeniality, but to me it's the same role the ace detective who is mannish and who is mocked by her male counterparts for being tough. But I think a better script and a better director could have given her something to do. I am one of those people that just likes her, even though the stuff she does is not that great, but on this movie I was saying to myself WHY do you like her? I thought her strongest work was in Practical Magic... but she seems forever stuck in movies that are messes that could have had potential. Sandra, call me, I'll write you something good.Schroeder's direction on this makes you (thinking back to Reversal of Fortune,) realize the power of a good script and great performances. The direction here is so obvious, plain and plodding... it's amazing this guy has any kind of reputation for quality.The two kids are good, not as great as everyone says, but certainly courageous. They would be better if the script were better.The aura of mediocrity that surrounds this movie is surprising. The trailer is BAD. It clearly tells the viewer this movie is second-rate, don't bother. When coupled with the worst movie poster in recent memory... I think Bullock and co. should be wondering why Warner decided to telegraph so clearly to the public that this one was such a fourth priority.The sense you get leaving this movie is that the writer is talented and has good ideas, but is restraining himself and adding false elements because he has to constantly clip his story to conform to Hollywood formula. This film is a good example of how it would be IMPOSSIBLE for a thoughtful and deep story to be made by anyone who hopes to make money on it. This movie ends up mediocre by staying in the middle, trying to play it both ways. I think they either need to go one way, make a deep and involving film to appear on cable over several episodes, or go for total trash. In between doesn't make it.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "}{"Title":"Solidly Entertaining","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Don't listen to some of the comments on how Sandra Bullock was not good in this movie.  These people are probably the type that were expecting a boob shot through the entire film.  Bullock is amazing in this film, and like much of what Hollywood produces, she makes the entire picture work. This picture is just a pleasant two hour crime story.  There is no great moral issue at stake, and the film is just a tad too free with comedy to make it anything that the viewer is going to get emotionally invested in.  The best feature of the film is probably the nearly accurate portrayal of police questioning and the incite it provides into real life killers such as Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold.  The movie correctly describes kids like this as orphans with credit cards.  This may be a bit of a spoiler, but you know who the killer is/are from the moment the body is found.  There is just not enough suspense to keep this film in the realm of great crime stories, and it descends into mediocrity.  Still even a mediocre film is a pleasant surprise these days. "},{"Title":"Count me out","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A slim picking at the megaplex is no excuse. If you decide to see this film, you'll encounter an interesting story and strong performances by the murderers, Justin Pendleton and Richard Haywood, wasted on the showcasing of the headliner, Sandra Bullock.  We should care that she can't sustain relationships, watches 'Matlock' for stimulation and is nicknamed the hyena for anatomical reasons? We don't, nor do we care for her partner, Ben Chaplin, who got her by drawing the short straw. This is no complex mystery even factoring in the detective-work involved in solving the case. Suspense holds your interest as the guilty parties shift from sympathetic to simply pathetic. And they do such a good job, but is it worth your time?We can see an element of good-slayer/bad-slayer from both of these guys who we knew from high school. But can we really expect good from premeditated murderers? Choosing their victims and their accomplices shows two characters seeking thrills and a challenge. And living on the edge brings them closer to death when betrayal becomes their means of survival. Although I am glad I saw this film, the time could gave been better invested. That's my problem. Yours is to decide whether you want to pick through `Murder by Numbers' to enjoy the select scenes that entertain. Or better, check your local community theater for less pretentious pickings.  "},{"Title":"A Good, Entertaining Detective Movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Finally we have a solid detective movie that avoids the blood and spectacular shootings and death count and opts for a realistic straight focus on investigation without the usual backstabbing from the main protagonist.  Sandra Bullock has to her credit put relationships, good humor, a confident, intelligent female dectective on the screen that we should applaud.  I hope more great things from her.  I enjoyed this movie because it was clash of minds instead of special effects.  People didn't put down each other just for the sake of drama.  And Sandra Bullock's character was one that I would hope could be used as a role-model in actually doing some good in this world.  Good for here. "},{"Title":"Bullock by the numbers 5/10","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers is not a very good film.  It has a few major problems that ruin the entire experience.  First off, Bullock is all wrong for this type of role.  Her character is far too flawed for her talent, it's impossible that she could have grasped this part.  She has the emotional core of a gold-fish.  Even if a better actress would have been cast in the pivotal role, I doubt if it would have worked.  The character is just a poor characterization, a stereotypical police officer, and nothing more.  Secondly, for a film that has a relatively dark concept, Murder by Numbers just doesn't have the testes to carry out the idea of the film.  It's like the producers and writers got too scared that the picture was too daring, so they decided to just sell out in the end.While Murder by Numbers generally fails at being a successful film, it does have one positive note Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt.  Pitt, who is just ok in this picture, has shown a lot of talent, like he did in the Larry Clark's brilliant Bully.  The real treat however, is Ryan Gosling.  The most captivating ferocious actor since Edward Norton.    "},{"Title":"Taut, intelligent suspense thriller does anything but go by the numbers","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder By Numbers is everything that disappointments like Copycat and The Watcher desperately wanted to be. While it provides a fresh take on the detective yarn, at the same time it bears many comparisons to successful members of its genre. As a murder mystery, it combines the psychological element of Seven and the gritty whodunit of the underappreciated 1997 film Murder at 1600 with terrific results. Like The First Deadly Sin, the suspects are identified right away, a maneuver that doesn't undermine the movie like it did in The Watcher.Sandra Bullock, in one of her best performances, stars as hardened San Benito homicide detective Cassie Mayweather, who has just taken on a new partner, straight-arrow Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin, sporting an American accent). Their first case together is attempting to solve the murder of a woman whose body was dumped near a creek deep in a desolate forest. The hideous nature of this crime eats at Cassie's conscience and unearths old skeletons in her closet that she would rather forget about. As if that wasn't enough, a convict whom she helped put away years ago is about to be released from prison on parole.The elusive murderers are two high school boys with totally opposite dispositions. Their personalities are yin and yang, yet a deadly combination. They're rich suburbanites with no responsibilities, and their parents are more focused on their careers than their children. Meeting at an abandoned house perched on a cliff, they devise a plan of committing a murder they believe that no one will ever be able to pin on them. Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt) is a sullen intellectual and forensic science expert who hides behind a curtain of floppy hair. His solaces in life are his girlfriend Lisa (Agnes Bruckner) and his books. Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) is an outgoing, arrogant skirt-chaser - and the mastermind behind the alibi that he hopes will keep the police at bay.Cassie dedicates herself to this case with incredible fervor. She studies the evidence - ranging from vomit, caviar and carpet fibers - and forms hypotheses about the killer and the motive. At one point, she refers to the victim by her first name, much to the consternation of her captain (R.D. Call). Her intense devotion to the assignment and subsequent theories gradually alienate her working relationship with Kennedy, draw the ire of her superiors, and threaten her authority on the case.Tony Gayton's smart, intricate screenplay dispels most of the genre's stereotypes, and succeeds at crafting a thinking person's cat-and-mouse story. The story is impartial to both the good guys and the bad guys. Bullock's character and bullish personality are near-spitting images of Yancy Butler's detective role from the TV series Witchblade, which is definitely not a bad thing. Gayton puts Mayweather in dark, loose-fitting turtleneck sweaters and black leather jackets instead of tight T-shirts and hip-huggers. (Plus, how many police officers in the movies live in cool houseboats?) Sure, there's the angle of the maverick cop butting heads with her superiors, but here it's not so blatant, and it serves a purpose to the plot. You'll feel the rush as Mayweather and Kennedy uncover important clues throughout. Gayton takes us into the killers' minds and shows us what makes them tick, but at the same time is careful not to glorify these individuals.Director Barbet Schroeder does a great job of envisioning the story, and gets excellent performances from his actors. While the suspense factor doesn't really come to the fore until the conclusion, he successfully toys with our emotions Just as we start to feel a sense of hope, such as when Mayweather and Kennedy appear to be so close to finally catching their suspects, he then immediately snatches the rug out before we become too relaxed. Just when Numbers begins to resemble a two-hour-long episode of Law and Order, something is thrown into our path that rekindles our interest and leaves us craving more.After potentially crippling flops like Miss Congeniality and the undisputedly abominable Speed 2, Bullock rebounds in a huge way and gives undoubtedly the best performance in the film, and the other stars are just as formidable and right up there in her territory. Stone-faced Chaplin has a commanding screen presence as by-the-book Kennedy, while Pitt and Gosling are outstanding as the young fugitives. While Richard is immediately established as a slimeball right from the start, one can only wonder if Justin is merely just a pawn in Richard's game, or if his maddeningly placid facade is merely hiding a fury deep inside his soul that's just itching to get out. As for the ending, just when you've figured everything out, Schroeder pulls more surprises out of the hat all the way up to the surprising climax.However, by no means is Numbers without weaknesses. For starters, here's a message to Hollywood Enough with the excessive flashback sequences. They're cumbersome and distracting, especially the monochromatic ones that include the epilepsy-inducing white-frame explosions. It further befouled already lousy films like Any Given Sunday and Resident Evil, and a better work like this isn't immune to it, either. (For the record, the last time flashbacks worked effectively was in Tomb Raider, but I digress.) Numbers also descends into momentary silliness courtesy of an overly melodramatic scene where Mayweather is suddenly attacked by a baboon (yes, a baboon) that's hiding in someone's garage. There is excessive flirting and sexual innuendo between Mayweather and Kennedy that has no significance to the plot.But there's no need to quibble over the negatives. This movie must have been titled Murder By Numbers simply as a play on words. In no way does it seem like it's going through the motions as it takes viewers on a smart and intense thrill ride. A word of caution this is a film that actually requires cerebral activity, as opposed to this year's array of impotent buddy comedies along with movies starring brain-dead video game zombies and cross-dressing frat boys. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Can you explain how the title relates to the film?","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Barbet Schroeder does not evoke a new plateau of thrills with 'Murder by Numbers'.  This evocative drama penned by Tony Gayton bases itself on a pair of  teenage boys and their attempt at executing the perfect, unsolvable murder all while misleading detectives in a calculated plot. Sandra Bullock produces and stars in the film as Cassie Mayweather, a Detective driven with repressed rage in a ridiculous subplot that forces her to solve the crime. Alongside her is forgotten actor Ben Chaplin as he makes another attempt at movie stardom in this decent yet questionable drama. To classify this film as a thriller would be irresponsible of me. It does not deliver any thrills, nor is it suspenseful. It is simply a well written and mediocre 'made for tv' concept brought to the screen by a bankable actress and a willing studio. The film is not a complete disappointment however; the true gems of this film are the young actors whom portray vicious beings who carry out their murders in a clinical fashion.  Canadian Ryan Gosling plays half of the deceptive team that plans, prepares and pursues their daunting and unforgiving act of murder. His performance in this film is everything the script calls for his character to be. Gosling's interpretation of the arrogant and charming high school student Richard Haywood is an accurate portrayal of the student who seems to have everything, but in reality wants more. Gosling is coupled with Michael Pitt II, a relative newcomer who portrays a suppressed and isolated individual with the intelligence of a sadistic madman. His acting is a healthy mixture of the isolation this character is trying to present, along with the innate brilliance of a somber madman seeking approval.  Bullock's 'tomboyish' attitude and cutthroat tactics are  enough to make her seem  unfitting in a role such as this., in turn casting a spotlight on the work of these two young actors.Director Schroeder incorporates a few 'snazzy' cliff top shots that showcase the blowing wind and choppy sea below, yet the overall feel of this film is an amalgamation of drama mixed with a resolute feeling of an after school special. His direction is simple yet plausible which may lead to severe mixed feelings. He is known for slow, evolving films as he demonstrated in style with 'Reversal of Fortune' and 'Single White Female', yet his focus is divisive within this film. He opens the film with a tasteful flash-forward sequence and commences his film centering around two incongruent aspects. The script calls for a motive that drives Bullock's passion at solving the murders and proving her hunch correct. As a result, we are subject to vague flashbacks and pointless build-up towards the discovery of her past that somehow is deemed unnecessary, all the while involving ourselves in this murderous theme. And for those who have seen the film, the 'face your fears' concept is quite outdated and does not add an interesting element to the film. This said, it is definitely not a precedent in filmmaking. The drama is lifted off the script pages and the only worthwhile performance that carries this film to an acceptable level is the manipulative duos who give solid performances. What seems to derail the film is a decent script 'dumbed' down by an obsession with an irrelevant back-story and lacklustre pacing that tries to compensate with a twist filled final half hour. Furthermore, I can appreciate a filmmaker who does not rely on blood to sell a scene, yet there should be some blood when a murder is committed, this film lacks the goods to convey a sense of absolute revocation of life due to the absence of the red squib. This is not the type of film that will force audiences to rush to the box office. Nor is it the type of film that will leave audiences completely satisfied. Upon exiting the theatre, I challenge audiences to explain how the title relates to the film, that in itself is a  solid indicator of a muddled film.Giancarlo's rating **  "},{"Title":"The title is the only good part of the film","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Too complicated and too simplistic at the same time. Two high school students decide to prove a theory that is as empty as any king of teenage intellectual onanism. One is the theoretician and the other the practitioner, officially. But the practitioner is a voyeur more than a real murderer. He enjoys seeing a murder being committed, and he is going to manipulate the theoretician who does not have the guts nor courage to do it himself into doing the crime in front of him. And that kind of dare always works with teenagers, even if they vomit afterwards.But that is too complicated to make a good thriller or too simplistic to make a good film. It is a poor psychological drama and what's more the practitioner who did not do it will end up dead, whereas the theoretician who did everything will end up saving the cop and going to court for life-imprisonment. So there is a justice after all, though this justice is neither human nor divine, plain accidental or incidental.We know from the very start that is what is going to happen but then the details are banal and lackluster. There is no suspense at all in fact and the theoretician does not even know that in crime there must be no pardon and no pity. Mediocre baboon.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Murd3r 8y Num8ers  - Murd three er eight y Num eight ers","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder By Numbers (Murd3r 8y Num8ers = Murd three er eight y Num eight ers) is a retelling of the Leopold and Loeb murders. Two high school boys plot the murder of a random victim. Sandra Bullock is the tenacious detective who works the case. The film suffers from a plot in which there isn't much suspense and although it tries to be a character study of Bullock and the two murderers, it doesn't go far enough or give enough detail. What you have then is a film that doesn't quite know what it wants to be. The saving grace of the film, I think, is Ryan Gosling as one of the high schoolers. At times he seems like he's watched a lot of young Paul Newman films and that's what his performance seems to be modeled after, but still he brought an understated creepiness to the film. "},{"Title":"Clichéd and boring","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A cop tortured by her past.Near to be alcoholic.She lives in a boat.She does not have a good relationship with her partner.She does not respect her superiors because she thinks they are not doing the investigation well.She risks her life to prove her theories.Two extremely intelligent villains.They leave false clues.''Unexpected'' twists which pretend to be surprising.All that and more clichés make their appearance on the film Murder by numbers.The only thing which pretends to make it ''unique'''is that it has Sandra Bullock in a serious role far away from shallow comedies.This movie is full of clichés and another cliché which appears here is that the movie uses flashbacks to show the mental state of the main characters(heroes and villains).That thing is used because the movie believes that with the flashbacks,the spectator would feel identified with the characters and that the spectator will enjoy the film more in showing emotions and suspense.If there is something of suspense.The movie cannot get nothing of the things I mentioned.The film has good performances but the story is so clichéd and predictable that the film becomes boring.Sandra Bullock has not got a bad performance but I think she was not the appropriate actress for the role.Ben Chaplin is a good actor but here,he does not show conviction.Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt make an adequate work as the villains.As for director Barbet Schroeder,it's a shame that the filmmaker behind films like Barfly and La virgen de los sicarios made this horrible movie,which does not display his talent at all.Murder by numbers is a clichéd and boring movie.And it's exactly the same as all the movies which copied The silence of the lambs. "},{"Title":"Decent thriller, that at least kept me watching, with it's fine performances, however the story wasn't all that great at times","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a decent thriller, that at least kept me watching, with it's fine performances, however the story isn't all that great. All the characters are good, and I thought the flashbacks were pretty cool as well, plus Sandra Bullock and Ryan Gosling were fantastic in this!. Ryan Gosling was just so twisted in this, and I absolutely loved it, and Michael Pitt was great as the somewhat innocent accomplice, plus the only thing bad about the acting was that Bullock and Ben Chaplin didn't have much chemistry together, and looked somewhat uncomfortable!. It's got some decent twists, and Bullock did an excellent job of portraying a character with a haunted past, and proved she can do more then Romantic Comedies, plus the finale was quite suspenseful. Sure it's a type of thriller that we have seen before, but I still rather enjoyed it, however as I said I just wish the story was better at times, plus Gosling and Pitt had pretty good chemistry together!. This is a decent thriller, that at least kept me watching, with it's fine performances, however the story wasn't all that great at times, still worth the watch. The Direction is decent. Barbet Schroederdoes a decent! job here with good enough camera work, good angles, adding some decent atmosphere, and keeping the film at a fairly fast pace. The Acting is very solid. Sandra Bullock is amazing as always and is fantastic here, she plays a character with a haunted past, and does it well, she got a lot of criticism for her performance here but I thought it was great, and it was different from her usual characters, and I also felt sorry for her, she was just fantastic!. Ben Chaplin is awful here, he looked completely lost and bored, and had no chemistry with Bullock what so ever, I was quite disappointed with his performance. Ryan Gosling is amazing here, he is very creepy and very menacing as the Killer, with twisted intentions, this guy is one of the rising stars, and has huge things ahead of him, he also had great chemistry with Pitt, I loved him!. Michael Pitt is excellent here as Gosling's accomplice, he is innocent, but is also very creepy just the same, and I also felt sorry for him, especially at the end, he did an excellent job!. Agnes Bruckner is cute and did fine as the somewhat love interest. Chris Penn does what he has to do adequately. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall worth the watch. **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Alright, Not Great","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" MURDER BY NUMBERS (2002) *** Great title for a tale comparable to an average episode of TV's CSI, which may sound like a put-down, but it isn't. Sandra Bullock is Cassie Mayweather, a homicide detective who's assigned to nail the attacker in a murder case. But the scheme behind the killing is more cleverly crafted than Cassie had first thought, making it difficult for her to solve it. Bullock is properly cast as the tough criminological expertize, but the script turns her (almost right away) from a confident, likable character to an emotionally unstable one, as she must deal with the aftermath of a troubling past while solving the case - a direction I personally wouldn't have chosen to take. "},{"Title":"perhaps one of the worst films you will ever see","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  if you see it. This film is bland, and tries to be original at points. it has a good idea but fails in every degree, Bullock is horrible as a f emale detective that just wants to get some, taking on a role more associated with a man, and boy does she come off manly. Not worth the effort of killing brain cells for the stupid ending. "},{"Title":"**1/2 - involving if not always solid","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers (2002) Sandra Bullock, Ben Chaplin, Ryan Gosling, Michael Pitt, Agnes Bruckner, Chris Penn, R.D. Call, D Barbet Schroeder. Spunky, intelligent homicide detective Bullock tries cracking a Jane Doe murder case while on the trail of two killers, a team of two arrogant high school students who plan a murder to see if they can get away with it (a' la Leopold and Loeb) by planting false clues at the crime scene. Contemporary standard-issue thriller is surprisingly not exploitative and holds your interest the whole way through on a crime investigation, with the occasional loss of focus and then a Hollywood twist that sinks the story. Still, Bullock is good as she works against her girl-next-door appeal in another uncompromising role. Running Time 120 minutes and rated R for violence, language, a sex scene, and brief drug use. ** ½  "},{"Title":"Bullock Steals Show","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very interesting light to see Sandra Bullock in.  It showed her as compulsive, addictive and bitter, but also very much in control and tough.  I bought every minute of her performance as a detective and I was skeptical about renting this movie.  Barbet is a good director and this Leopold and Loeb story is worth seeing just for Ms. Bullock's performance "},{"Title":"Title makes no sense.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers?Bizarre title.  Has absolutely nothing to do with the movie as far as I can tell.  I still think Sandra can't make a movie like this, but I'm not sure she can pick them right.  Jennifer Lopez would have been a better choice.Besides this, while it is an emotional end, it does at least point out the fact that certain bullies can get dweebs to do the dirty work for them.  Which is unfortunate.  It's too bad that the bully is killed in the movie while the victim is forced to endure jail time.THis though is a weak minded movie.  The villains are too young to be of much use.  But it does get some give for effort.  It's like Nice Try, but try again.5/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"A good thriller","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched it with my wife on dvd and I will add it no doubt to my best of collection.  The movie is not boring but there is also not a big suspense except at the end. If you want to spend an entertaining evening this one could work for you. The performance of Sandra Bullock and the two villains were respectable. A little critic to the story is that the murder plan is not a long secret and so we know very quickly who are the responsible persons for the crime. Interesting to follow the detective work of Sandra Bullock and the dramatic end for the two young criminals. There were finally many plots and twists and the picture was beautiful. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Probing, Insightful Crime/Drama from Barbet Schroeder (9/10)","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An individual with a disturbed mind and a convoluted philosophy that incorporates crime, personal freedom and autonomy is a ticking time bomb; add to this a bored sociopath with too much time on his hands, and the two working in concert makes a potent combination that must necessarily at some point result in a blatant disregard for the laws of man as well as the laws of nature.  And it is just such a scenario that is visited by director Barbet Schroeder in his taut thriller, `Murder by Numbers,' a psychological crime/drama over which the shadow of Hitchcock looms large.  To the discerning viewer, it's evident early on that this film is going to probe a bit deeper than the a typical offering of the genre, and happily it's not an empty promise, but one which Schroeder fulfills entirely.  It's absorbing stuff, and the route he takes for the journey makes this a thoroughly satisfying and thought provoking cinematic experience.The story revolves around a pair of high school seniors, Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) and Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt), two polar opposites living in an upscale seaside city in Northern California, who for their own sundry reasons concoct in theory a `perfect crime,' or more specifically, the perfect murder.  And when the body of a young woman is found in a nearby woods, it falls to veteran detective Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) and her partner, Sam Kennedy (Ben Chaplin), to investigate and sort it all out.  The evidence seems to lead in one direction, but certain circumstances and Cassie's instincts come into play, indicating otherwise.  Eventually, the question is, are Richard and Justin involved?  Which is precisely what Cassie-- who is currently dealing with some personal issues-- and Ben have to determine.  All they know for sure is that a woman who should still be walking around isn't; and they have to know why.  And soon.The screenplay for this film is clever and extremely well written by Tony Gayton, and he goes to a number of sources to create a rather astute and insightful commentary on the human condition, including man's inherent capacity for good and evil.  Reminiscent of the infamous Leopold/Loeb `thrill killing' murder case of the 1920s, Gayton's story evokes a philosophical sense of Dostoevsky's `Crime and Punishment,' and references 19th Century French poet Arthur Rimbaud's `Lettre du Voyant,' the famous manifesto in which the visionary poet discusses the goal of the `voyant,' the poet who must practice the `deranging of the senses' to attain a transcendental state, which he calls the `unknown.'  Or, as Justin, especially, sees it, `freedom.'  It's an intelligent treatment of a concept almost too terrifying to even contemplate-- the cold blooded murder of an innocent victim chosen at random, and for nothing more than the singular purpose of the experience.  And it's disconcerting to say the least when you consider the fact that there `are' people like this walking around loose in a world we must share with them.The extraordinary thing about this film is that Schroeder was able to translate Gayton's ideas so succinctly and successfully to the screen.  This material could easily have been rendered in a dry and academic way that would have been tedious, or it could have gone the other way, losing the sagacious aspects entirely in what would have been an ill-advised attempt to capture the attention of those less inclined to embrace an offering demanding of some deliberation.  It created a dangerous line to tread between the possibilities, either/or to which a director of lesser integrity would easily have succumbed.  Schroeder, however, obviously had a firm grasp of Gayton's intent, recognizing from the beginning where the heart and soul of the story lay, and it is that which he proceeded to present in his film.With every film she makes, Sandra Bullock proves herself increasingly worthy of respect and regard as an actor and as an artist.  She can be America's Sweetheart (Lucy, `While You Were Sleeping'), the not-quite-the-girl-next-door type (Sarah, `Forces of Nature'), a savvy FBI agent (Gracie, `Miss Congeniality'), or a very real person with very real personal issues who just happens to be an accomplished professional in her field, as she portrays here as Cassie.  With every role, Bullock continues to grow as an actor; here, she refuses to trade on her natural charisma and proven, personal qualities to play what could have been just a variation of another `cop.'  Instead, she creates a character who is obviously conflicted, but who deals with it in her own way in her own time, which adds the kind of personal mystery to Cassie that makes her at once sympathetic and interesting.  It's a convincing, introspective performance that shows yet another side of Bullock, and it's arguably one of her best.Ben Chaplin does an excellent job, as well, with his portrayal of Sam.  It's a very subtle performance in which he captures the very essence of the mundane realism of everyday life.  Sam is a normal guy who is there to do a job, and Chaplin presents him in terms that are credible and convincing, which in turn lends even more credibility to the overall film.  It's a very understated performance that makes this part and his character entirely effective.Finally, what really closes the deal for the success of this film are the performances of Gosling and Pitt.  Gosling finds the perfect note in his pretentious, arrogant attitude and self-indulgent personality.  And Pitt affects an eerily unsettling demeanor that will haunt you long after the film has ended.  Together, they are even more effective than Stockwell and Dillman were as the killers Judd and Artie, in the similar 1959 film,  `Compulsion.'  This story is intrinsically closer to the truth than many will be willing to admit, and because of that, `Murder by Numbers' will never achieve the acclaim or stature it deserves; nonetheless, this is riveting drama that is definitely going to make you think and reflect a bit.  9/10.                   "},{"Title":"Sandra and the nauseating adolescents","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Make no mistakes of this film.  Regardless of what else anybody could say about it, this is plain awful.A group of truly vomit enducing teenagers including some that plan the perfect crime meet up with cop Sandra Bullock.All you can really say is that every single piece of plot you can work out yourself from just knowing the above. "},{"Title":"A winner","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsA hard nosed murder investigator (Sandra Bullock) and her rookie partner (Ben Chaplin) try to solve the murder of a young woman by a couple of evil high school students (Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt) and discover nasty secrets about the teenager's past along the way.It's an original and intriguing premise,there are some sharp and effective thrills 'n' spills and damn Sandra looks sexy prancing around in a leather jacket.Barbet Schroder has succeeded again.Go see.**** "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would like compensation for wasting my time and money on this film.  I watched it under the impression that it would be a movie about 2 teens committing a murder, but apparently Sandra Bullock decided that it needed to have more of a focus on her character overcoming emotional barriers. There were numerous holes in the plot, and the screenplay in general was horrible. Props to Gosling and Pitt for bringing some dignity to this otherwise horrible film. "}{"Title":"two outstanding performances save this film","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Murder By Numbers' is merely the latest version of the old Leopold and Loeb story, wherein two amoral youths plan and execute a cold-blooded murder for the sheer intellectual challenge of seeing if they can get away with it.  Alfred Hitchcock had a go at the tale back in the 1940's in a film called `Rope,' and now it appears to be Barbet Schroeder's turn this time around.  Aided by writer Tony Gayton, Schroeder focuses on Richard and Justin, two high school buddies living in a bucolic seaside community in Northern California, who commit murder in order to prove Justin's thesis that the courage to carry through with a crime is the ultimate form of human freedom.  Anyone who has read `Crime and Punishment' will know immediately that this is not a particularly original philosophical position and, in fact, the film even makes some heavy-handed allusions to that famous novel in the fact that one of the characters in the movie keeps referring to Justin, the mastermind of the plot, as `Napoleon' (Napoleon serves as the inspiration for the novel's main character, Raskolnikov).  Richard is the pretty little rich boy, popular in school for both his good looks and his attitude of cool detachment, while Justin is the nerdy intellectual, dismissed by most of his peers as creepily eccentric, who has made an exhaustive study of just how to `get away with murder' by circumventing all the forensic techniques used in modern crime scene investigation.  `Murder By Numbers' is definitely at its best when it is focusing on the two youths and the strange relationship between them &#150; and clearly at its worst when it is viewing matters from the opposite perspective, that of the criminal investigating team led by Cassie Mayweather, played by Sandra Bullock.  Cassis seems to come equipped with all the standard baggage common to lead female characters who happen to be working in a predominantly ugly (i.e. male-dominated) profession.  The brusque demeanor with which she confronts most of her colleagues has earned her the affectionate nicknames `Hyena' and `Scorpion' (the former because hyenas apparently have a pseudo-penis and the latter for more obviously symbolic reasons).  Not only is this beautiful young woman (as always) unattached (why are such attractive people in movies never in relationships?), but she drives men away by her refusal to let any of them get truly near to her.  The filmmakers have tried to apply some psychological depth to her character by having her suffering from the effects of a traumatic event in her past, but this whole aspect seems strangely unconvincing and tacked on &#150; and rather distracting when what we really want to be doing is following the much more interesting drama taking place between the two boys.Although Bullock is never less than competent in the lead role, the scene-stealers turn out to be Ryan Gosling as Richard and, most especially, Michael Pitt as Justin.  These two fine actors command our attention every time they appear on the screen and lift this rather routine script to the level of high drama more frequently than it surely deserves.  Pitt, in particular, beautifully underplays the role of the social outcast, a boy so intellectually brilliant that he cannot connect with the flesh-and-blood people around him.  Yet, the single finest aspect of the screenplay is that it does not portray Pitt as a hopelessly twisted maniac.  He is, in fact, capable of both compassion and fear &#150; a fact which helps to make his character compelling and complex enough to pique our interest.`Murder By Numbers' is, in a way, an appropriately named movie.  But thanks to sharp performances by Gosling and Pitt, the film has more to offer than it otherwise might.   "},{"Title":"Excellent, entertaining movie. Amazing performance by Sandra Bullock!!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! This was way above my expectations. I'm no fan of film noir--- creepy crimes don't do anything for me, and I avoid movies such as Seven, Hannibal, Natural Born Killers, and that kind of thing. Sandy Bullock is so cool, though, that her good vibes and fundamental likeability got me to take a chance on Murder by Numbers. I am SO glad I went! True, there were a few small moments of creepiness, but even that wasn't any worse than what you'd see on TV. One can't really discuss this movie in depth without giving something away, so I won't get into the plot points or whatever. It does remain to be said, though, the casting was superb, and Bullock pulled off an amazing acting feat. New heights for her, and hopefully, her future career. Even though her character here bears a superficial resemblance to other parts she has played, notably the FBI chick in Miss Congeniality, this character was a new creation. Completely believable, thoroughly convincing, and as aptly deep and complex a character as I've seen. Good job Sandy!This flick is entertaining, breezy yet VERY engaging, and nicely done. One test, for me, of a good movie Not once during this movie did I check my watch or wonder what time it was. I was rapt and lost in the movie until the credits. AND, the creepiness of the actual murder elements (again, smallish) in the film did not wound my soul--- rather, it was a passing dramatic note that melted away as the movie ended. I loved Murder by Numbers, and I suspect that you will too! "},{"Title":"Can you say cliché?","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very suspenseful and showed how in Society today the poor people the only ones aren't committing crime. The kids in this movie Justin (portrayed by Michael Pitt) and portrayed by Ryan Gosling were excellent for the characters. Not to mention they are both Outstanding Actors! In the movie rich smart bored kids were killing innocent people simply because they had nothing better to do they had everything they wanted and needed.The outcome of the movie is very surprising and unexpected. The movie was a bit Cliché which you will notice. Great cast Terrific story line! Gets my vote of a 8. I do not recommend this movie for short attention spanned people! "},{"Title":"Short","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that there are a lot of people who enjoyed this film. Seeing those responses made me second guess my own taste for movies.  I am not bashing anyone, don't take it wrong, everyone is entitled to their own opinion obviously. I, personally, thought it was one of the worst movies I have ever saw.  I thought the acting was suspect and the story was lame. After seeing this 'movie', I am allergic to Sandra Bullock.  I simply can't take her seriously anymore, thanks to this movie.  I do not recommend this movie, instead of you are searching for a thriller/mystery, try The Fugitive, The Usual Suspects, Minority Report and/or the old Hitchcock films. -(negative)3 stars out of 5 from this viewer.   "},{"Title":"absolutely rotten (but for Ryan)","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a STAGGERINGLY inept film - boring, cliched (was the title an in-joke on the film's screenwriting-by-numbers approach?) and trite. The worst thing - by a mile - is the execrable Sandra Bullock, who is not only fatally unattractive but also a complete stranger to acting ability. The absurd poses and ridiculous faces she pulls must be seen to be disbelieved. This is only made worse by her involvement at Executive Producer, which has her insisting that every shot of her woeful face is held for about 20 seconds longer than it warrants. This really is a face (and an ego) someone should slap. The pace is deadening and the camerawork flat as a pancake. Even the worst episode of Diagnosis Murder is better than this! The other characters (with one exception) are nearly as boring and unattractive as Ms Bullock - Ben Chaplin wanders through like some zombie with a heart problem. The sex scenes between the two of them are a real bromide - devoid of eroticism, charm and chemistry. The one saving grace in this ENORMOUS turkey is the wonderful Ryan Gosling. The movie comes alive every time he comes on screen (when Bullock appears again, the heart sinks). His character, despite being a murderer, is by far and away the most attractive and interesting & he has real charisma and acting ability. The audience I saw this with were screaming that he kill her at the end - and one can only sympathise with her ex-husband who quite rightly beat her up regularly and attempted to rid the world of this terrible, dull, self-righteous woman. Mr Gosling, you deserve better than this pile of absolute tosh.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As far as remakes go, this one isn't awful. Compulsion, or Rope, were better movies, no doubt. But there are elements here that are worthwhile. The problem comes in the center of the film -- Sandra Bullock. She's gorgeous and talented, and obviously wants to break out of her cute but stupid stereotype. Unfortunately, she fails here. The kids, the youngsters who want to murder to be free are actually pretty well done. She, as a woman who wants to be a man, fails pretty miserably. The ending is atrocious, as is the directing. All in all, not a bad outing. Just gotta give it a little bit of mercy. "},{"Title":"How to ruin a good story............","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is almost totally ruined by the way the story is dominated by the neurotic behavior of the lead actress. She is a senior police officer investigating a horrific murder where the 2 suspects are a couple of clever gay students who commit a murder for fun and are trying to get away with the perfect crime. By virtue of very strong performances of the two gays this story would be compelling had it been left on its own. But -no- the film makers have to make the major plot the lunatic mixed up nympho-maniac aforesaid police woman. Also instead of being brave enough to betray the gays for what they are the movie brings in some f-a-g hag to have sex with both the gays..... "},{"Title":"The ghosts of Leopold and Loeb walk again","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The ghosts of Leopold and Loeb walk again in this psychological thriller from 2002. Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb were two highly intelligent University of Chicago students who, in 1924, kidnapped and murdered a teenage boy named Bobby Franks. Although they made a clumsy attempt to demand a ransom from his parents, their main motive was not financial. Rather, they were motivated by their study of the philosophy of Nietzsche and had come to believe that they were Nietzschean supermen, free from the normal constraints of morality, and that carrying out a motiveless murder was a way of asserting that freedom. A number of films have been based on their case, of which the most famous are probably Alfred Hitchcock's Rope and Richard Fleischer's Compulsion. Both films, especially Hitchcock's, depart significantly from the facts of the case; indeed Nathan Leopold was so outraged by Compulsion that he attempted to sue the film-makers for libel and breach of privacy. (Leopold was still alive when that film was made in 1959, although Loeb had died in prison in 1936). Murder by Numbers is only loosely based on the case, moving the action from 1920s Chicago to modern California. The killers in this version, Justin Pendleton and Richard Haywood, are two high school teenagers rather than university students, and the victim is a young woman rather than a boy, but their motivation is the same as that of Leopold and Loeb, to commit the perfect murder in order to prove their own moral and intellectual freedom. Apart from their philosophical devotion to murder as a fine art, however, both boys are typical stock characters who could be taken from any high school drama. Richard is the wealthy, handsome, popular boy, Justin the unattractive, unpopular nerdy academic. Unlike Compulsion or Rope, Murder by Numbers also focuses on the police officers investigating the crime. (Indeed, in Rope the crime is not solved by the police but by James Stewart's schoolmaster turned amateur detective). The main character on the right side of the law is Detective Cassie Mayweather, a woman with a mysterious past who may have her own personal reasons for wanting the crime solved. Richard and Justin appear to have an alibi, and plant false clues which throw Mayweather's colleagues off the scent. Her dogged methods, however, gradually begin to uncover the truth. Murder by Numbers is fairly competently done, but it is nothing more than a cops-versus-killers thriller of a type that has become very familiar in recent years. It doesn't help that Mayweather is played by Sandra Bullock, a rather bland and uninspiring actress who seems most at home in bland and uninspiring films. (Apart from the excellent Crash, I can't really say that I've enjoyed any of the films I've seen her in). The title of this offering is perhaps unfortunate, as this is very much a case of film-making by numbers, the sort of standard Hollywood fare that we've all seen before. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A barely average thriller with Sandra Bullock, what non-surprise","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Schroeder's 2002 film about two gifted high school students who execute a perfect murder and then become entangled in a series of feuding with a long-time detective (bullock) and her new partner (chaplin). The film had a lot of potential, a solid plot, however i blame the screenwriter, and the director partially as well. This film could have been much much better, the only thing that saved it from being totally dreadful was the performances in my eye. But with a little bit of a better screenplay, this could have been a solid film. I thought both Gosling and pitt were good as the teenagers and Ben Chaplin and Bullock who are not exactly the most gifted actors were also not bad here. All in all, i expected more and it could have been better. -- IMDb Rating 5.9, my rating--- 7/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely average.","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With so many good English detectives series out there, there is absolutely no reason why you should go and watch this movie. If you have seen a couple of English detectives you will notice how extremely average this movie truly is.The story is extremely average in every way and the plot twists are silly and mostly predictable, with as a result that the movie never really becomes tense. It really is a movie that already has been done dozens of times and uses too many clichés.Average however is not the same as bad of course. Sandra Bullock is a strong female lead but her character is not always likable throughout the movie. And the 'secret' from the past she is carrying with her; Silly and really unneeded. Real discovery of the movie are youngsters Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling.Watchable but most certainly not a must see.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A modern version of Loeb and Leopold try to outwit troubled-cop Sandra Bullock; so how hard would that be?","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bullock comes off shabbily as a homicide cop with a past (which is about as tawdry as a lifetime movie plot as can be).  She's trying to catch a couple of effeminate high-school boys who relieve their latent tendencies by committing a thrill kill.  It's all pretty routine (by the numbers, you might say), and done with less pizzazz than most of the low-budget cop sleaze you can watch regularly on Cinemax.  The highlight of this one is Bullock's run in with a baboon; I kid you not!    "},{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would give this movie an eight but I have to give it a 4.  Bullock can definitely do better than this.  Her performance was great.  The main plot was good.  The CSI takeoff was really good.  My complaint is with Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitts characters.  They could have been great as the bored rich kid and the genius teenager.  They pulled it off great.  What made the movie sick and twisted was the homosexual relationship between their characters.  This was totally unnecessary and nauseating.  It literally made me physically sick and ruined the movie for me.  Had this been left out this would have been a good movie. "},{"Title":"It's Minnie Mouse with a black leather jacket and a gun...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If I didn't see this movie with company, I would have walked out of the theater.  Yes, I thought it was that bad.Murder By Numbers is another perfect example of what can go wrong when an actor (Sandra Bullock) tries to branch out and become a producer.  The movie had potential to be an entertaining mystery-thriller, but the constant failed attempts by the creative team to incorporate complex sub-layers to Sandra's character, Cassie Mayweather, is extremely painful to watch. Couple that with the obvious Columbine High School undertones, and this movie goes south very quickly.The only positive that will come about from this movie is the launch of Ryan Gosling's career.Sticky Shoes says D+ "},{"Title":"Going through the motions","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that while you're watching it, you can't help but think that it should be a lot better than what it is. Murder by Numbers seems like it has all of the elements to make a good movie but it never turns into one. I can only guess that's because this is one of those films that gets significantly rewritten when a major star is cast in what should be a minor role, and too much of what was originally good about it gets lost in the process.When it started out, I imagine the script was largely about two teenagers. Richard Haywood (Ryan Gosling) is the good looking rich kid who's annoyingly charming in that teenage douchebag sort of way. Justin Pendleton (Michael Pitt) is the class outsider, very smart but emotionally undeveloped and hopelessly inept socially. The two are natural born high school enemies and act that way in class, but they're secretly friends in the male version of one of those too close relationships you sometimes see in young girls. In their hormonal angst, Richard and Justin and unified by their hatred and contempt of the world, their families and even themselves. So to prove how much smarter and better they are than everyone, the decide to commit the perfect murder.And this is where the rewriting must have set in, because one of the cops who investigates Richard and Justin's perfect murder is played by Sandra Bullock. So what was probably a minor role in the twisted story of two murderous teens gets blown up into the star of the movie with her own issues and her own backstory. Cassie Mayweather (Sandra Bullock) is your typical female film cop who is brilliant and conflicted and all that jazz. She's the one who figures out that Richard and Justin are really guilty and has to overcome the resistance of her boss and her partner who aren't smart enough to see it. Cassie's even got a tragedy in her past that's supposed to explain her reckless personal behavior and her instant animosity toward Richard.The problem is that in the probable expansion of Cassie's character, the whole story gets thrown out of whack. The movie is torn between being about her and being about the teen killers, so it ends up just going through the motions and being about nothing. It literally takes the film a half hour to establish what it's about. The supposedly complex murder scheme turns out to be child's play to unravel. Every development and revelation about Cassie or Richard and Justin happens at high speed, like something being cooked in a microwave oven. That's because the story of the lady cop and the killer teens are only tangentially connected, so any time spent on one is time taken away from the other.It's too bad because Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt do a pretty good job with roles that go beyond the stereotype of the smart kid being the brains and the rich kid being the ambition. I would have liked to have seen what they could have done with even meatier characters in a less melodramatic tale. Unfortunately for Sandra Bullock, it's hard to see Cassie as anything other than an attempt at a serious version of what she did in Miss Congeniality. But again, the character and her story have no real room to breathe, so it would have been hard to any actress to make it work. It is perversely amusing to watch Ben Chaplin playing Cassie's partner, because he's stuck in the same sort of thankless role thousands of actresses have had to play opposite a male movie star.Oh, and while the title of this movie is Murder by Numbers&#x85;numbers have absolutely nothing to do with the murder or anything else in the film. Richard and Justin don't use numbers to commit the murder. Cassie doesn't use numbers to solve it. I don't have the slightest idea what the title is referring to, unless the people at the studio in charge of naming movies had a massive case of writer's block and just decided to pair the always popular murder with the next thing that came to mind, just as the lottery drawing was being show on TV.Murder by Numbers isn't horrid. It's just unsatisfying. It doesn't even have enough sex, violence or bad language to deserve its R rating. Find something better to watch. "},{"Title":"Appeal is one-sided","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murder By Numbers seems to me like a sort of movie you'd catch on a Wednesday night, not really worth renting unless it happens to be on TV. I'd have to warn there might be some SPOILERS ahead, if one can infer them from the comments.The movie is a two-sided affair one story deals with a traumatized cop (Bullock)and her partner. the other deals with two high school kids, justin and richard (the more interesting of the two stories, in my opinion). The story picks up and carries momentum throughout encounters and the overall plot that revolves around justin and richard,while seemingly lagging that momentum with the installment of Bullock's character's storyline in trying to create a two-dimensional plot between the cops and killers.Justin and richard's part in the movie,sure they have their flaws, but are the only parts of the movie worth watching. The closest Bullock's character comes to suspense would be her encounter with a baboon and shameless attempts to create mystery (auditory flashbacks).All in all, if you happen to come across this movie while switching through HBO or Cinemax, then I suggest you give it a try; personally, I wouldn't go out of my way for this movie, but that's just me. If anything,try Hitchcock's Rope which is somewhat like this but better in a way, being that the master himself directed it. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder by Numbers is a great Detective movie that does not disappoint. Fabulous acting, plot, and detailed mystery. I would recommend this movie to everyone.10 out of 10Movies as good (if not better) than this include Blood Work and Along came a Spider "},{"Title":"Better be a Telefilm","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The story would be good, but the screenplay and the sequence of events were just like a TV drama or telefilm (long TV drama). A movie must look like a movie, not a drama. Its name is not very consistent to the story. While and after watching this movie, I did not feel like watching a movie at all. After watching it, I thought Enough! No more cop or detective movies! The story looked like confused one. The writer couldn't show any grip on the story and it seemed like the story was re-written many times. "},{"Title":"Suspeseful","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed watching this movie from start to finish. the very beginning of the film to the very end had me not only asking questions in my head, but capturing my attention from scene to scene. Along with the plot of the film the thing that made this film so great was the role of the two young actors who played the teens in this movie. I believe that there roles were a lot more interesting and breath taking than the role of the films star Sandra Bullock. This movie takes many twists and turns where it has you believing in one character and then completely turning it around on you and having full faith in the other one. Full knowledge is not obtained in this title until the very end which is what made this such a great movie for me to watch. This is more of a suspense thriller than a horror thriller. If you are interested in movies about committing the perfect crime and who, what when why where and how then this is definitely the movie that you should see. it is an older movie but not that old and will have you on the edge of your seat from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Atrocious.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I was hoping this would be a good film, since Michael Pitt's last two films were superb.  But I guess this was one of those well, it's a studio film, so I better take it types of situations.  I was just looking at Sandra Bullock's resume and realized that she's in dire need of a good film. Not a 'cute' film, not an OK movie, but a good film.This movie's plot had more holes than a colander.  I won't ruin them for any of you who make the unwise decision to see it after reading this, but on top of that, there were a number of wildly unbelievable moments in the film. Sandra Bullock, the police officer, gets harassed by the number one suspect in the crime and nothing happens????Come on.  And please, someone put Ben Chaplin in a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Criminal Influence","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Of the current spate of detective thrillers, this one shoots the highest.It is very poorly executed. It's not just Bullock who is dreadful -- the whole production is cursed with people without the ability to put their minds inside ours. So just forget about digging into this at face value. But the underlying notion is so rich, you can watch it as if it were radio and fill in all the art yourself.And that's more fun with this type of material anyway. The legacy of this is an engagement of wits between the writer and reader, each trying to outwit the other. Somewhere since then, the genre has become dominated by a new version with two new twists.First, the criminal becomes not just a player in the drama, but is involved in a struggle for creating that drama. In this, the criminal mind is engaged in crime not just for whatever benefit the crime gives, but also to manipulate the detective. Its a remarkably modern notion that often spills outside the boundaries of the play to control some part of the viewer's mind. Spacey's character in `Seven' had a goal not just to flummox the detectives but us as well. The crime is one of breaking the shell of personal control over our consciousness. That's Neitzsche. The real Neitzche. That's also the idea behind `Fight Club,' the really cool notion that by showing the ability to mess with a displayed mind, the filmmaker could -- by display -- mess with your mind. `Fight Club' had some actors that knew how to play this double role tussling between each other and also tussling for control of our mind. No one here has a clue about this agenda.The second evolution in the genre is the introduction of `psychological' factors. Though the ostensible dynamic is to add interest to the characters, the real intent in intelligent work is to allow the environment to also be involved in the struggle over people's lives. So Cassie has a past that haunts her. Each of these boys is a product of their environments. The girl too for that matter.`Fight Club' was clean -- in fact its logo was that bar of soap, remember? This project isn't. Multiple pulls are set up in the narrative-- One boy over another using psycho sexual mesmerism. The big twist is that the roles are discovered to be opposite of what is set up.-- The pair of boys as a team pulling against the world, embodied by the insatiably curious Cassie. She has a pathological need to discover the truth. Its not well rationalized by the standards of the genre, but there she is.-- Cassie pulling against the consciousness of her own world partners, bosses.-- The ensemble of them pulling us first one way and then other.This is not as deft as it needs to be on their part, which is why it has a hidden charm the viewer can actually WIN! A talented viewer can engage in this contest for control over the world of the town shown. And because everyone involved is so incompetent, that viewer can get in there and grab control, can turn this movie into something that makes sense and has a coherent philosophical weave.What I saw was something fabricated by the Sam Kennedy character. He controls the broken Cassie character through sex and Richard, and completely drives the poor Justin by suggestion. Both incrementally believe they actually did it. Its a double fight club. We see this through TWO sets of delusional eyes one thread through the fooled Cassie the other through the kids.As with `Moulin Rouge,' their susceptibility is via absynthe primarily and dope (numbers) secondarily. Watch it again and you'll see how fabricated is the narrative. Great radio. "}{"Title":"No respect.","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie shows no-respect for the movie going public (who deserve better). Though Sandra shines as usual; the plot is a joke but the real calamity is the insipid script. Poor Mr. Chaplin (horribly miscast) struggles bravely and defenselessly with the tortured script. Gone are the days of Jimmy Stewart, Bogart, Cary Grant, Spencer Tracy, Cagney, Gable and many others. Where are the writers? The sophomoric and tasteless plot of this movie begs the question. There have been bad movies from day one but not this bad. Thankfully, I watched it on my DVR vis-a-vis HBO. I hate cynicism but the only way I could get rid of the bad taste is to get this off my chest. Thanks. "}]