[{"Title":"subtle but chilling portrayal of madness","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"130 out of 145 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams gives what may well be the performance of his career in `One Hour Photo,' a creepy psychological thriller written and directed with cool precision by Mark Romanek.  Given its premise, the film could easily have degenerated into a sordid, exploitative tale of obsession and madness.  Instead, Romanek has chosen to take a more subtle approach, fashioning a film that downplays the potential violence of its material while, at the same time, recognizing the humanity of its central figure.Romanek understands that the greatest threats to our safety and lives often come from the gray, nondescript people who surround us unnoticed, the `nobodies' whose benign faces and vacuous smiles reveal no trace of the insanity, evil and potential for doing us harm that may be lurking right there under the surface.  And nobody is `grayer' than Si Parrish, an innocuous, socially undeveloped milquetoast who spends his days working as a photo developer in one of those sterile five-and-dime drug stores (just like the one in `The Good Girl') - and his nights sitting all alone in his drab apartment brooding over a massive family-photo shrine he has erected to the Yorkins, a seemingly happy family of three whose pictures Si has been developing, copying and obsessing over for more than seven years now.  The film centers around Si's growing fixation with this one family and his delusional belief that he too could somehow become an integral part of their family unit.  Then comes the day when Si realizes that he is no longer content to be a mere vicarious member of this adopted family and, thus, begins his plan to gradually insinuate himself more and more directly into their lives.As both writer and director, Romanek manages to keep us in a state of vague uneasiness throughout.  We are always anticipating some potentially dreadful event, yet Romanek doesn't go for the easy thrill or the obvious plot turn.   Thanks to Williams' subtle, incisive performance, we come to understand something of what makes this strange character tick.  We begin to sense the deep-seated loneliness and social awkwardness that have come to play such an important part in defining both his behavior and his character.  Si is scary, but he is also pathetic.   He may have slipped over the edge into madness, but it is a pathology rooted in overwhelming loneliness and the inability to `fit in' to the societal `norm' of marriage and family. Even when his character is at his most threatening and irrational, Williams somehow makes us care about him.  Romanek hits upon a few ancillary themes as well.  He acknowledges how photos create the appearance of a life without necessarily reflecting the reality of that life.  Most people, Si confesses, record only the `special, happy' moments of their lives &#150; birthdays, weddings, holidays etc. and leave out the mundane or painful ones.  Moreover, Si tells us that people use pictures as a way of defeating aging and time, of saying to the world of the future that `I', this seemingly insignificant person, was really here, being happy and enjoying life.  To match this theme, Romanek's visual style often feels like the director's own personal homage to The Photograph, as the camera scans caressingly across a sea of snapshots &#150; and Si's voiceover narration complements that feeling.`One Hour Photo' is not a film for those who like their chills heavily laced with bloodshed, murder and mayhem.  It is, rather, for those who can appreciate a quietly unsettling, yet strangely compassionate glimpse into the dark recesses of the troubled mind.  "},{"Title":"Another Example Of A Comedian Who Can Be Effectively Serious","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"88 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams once again proves how good comedians can be at serious drama roles. Williams is especially good at playing creepy characters, as he has done several times in the last decade.Here, he plays Sy, the photo guy, a lonely employee in the photo department of a suburban Target/Walt-Mart//K-Mart-whatever who lives vicariously through a nice family, whose family pictures he has developed and printed for years. So, when Sy discovers the husband of that family is cheating, he takes it personally....and gets involved.This was a fascinating portrait of a deranged man and a wonderfully photographed movie. The colors in here are astounding at times and the camera-work innovative with some neat angles. The suspense of the story builds and builds one gets that old film-noir feeling of impending doom.This has a different ending, though, than most old film noirs, not exactly what the viewer might think will happen.This is a film that, as far I know, never got much publicity, but it's a gem. Williams is outstanding in his role and the hour-and-a-half you invest in this movie flies by. "},{"Title":"I sincerely enjoyed this film","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"84 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo is a film of supreme caliber. The film is powered by the haunting, chilling, silencing, and above all-genius performance by Robin Williams. But the rather extraordinary thing is that it is not Robin Williams on the screen, it's Sy Parish (the character's name). Robin Williams fades away from our senses and slips into the ever so sweet and innocent yet psychotic role of a supermarket's photo developer. The films script is only accented by Williams, at times, restrained performance. Williams ignites on the screen and burns till the last frame, and you are unable to take your eyes off him. As I mentioned the film is subliminily written as well as directed. Though being Romanek's first, I certainly don't think this is a bad start. Romanek's direction adds to the on-going tension throughout the film. More affecting is Williams' delightful calmness. Trying to hold himself in becomes more troublesome for both Williams and his character as the story develops. Yet through the calm eyes of an innocent blaze the fires of hatred and intensity, which could very well sum up Williams' performance. The film does have some disturbing images as well. Yet they are not really strong enough for you to get up from your seat and leave yet rather the opposite. Williams' contribution as well as guidance towards the actions and scenes of peril compell as well as amaze you towards both the performance and film itself. Williams' shocking contribution to the screen is enough to make you cry, scream, and yell in your seat. Because the origins of the character are bittersweet just like own known Williams, leads to a crazed and psychotic breakdown. It's as if watching our own funny and beloved Robin fail us. Though the truth could not be any further, Williams but succeeds in the art of acting, creating an achievement in the field. Creating a landmark. Writing his/its own chapter. I guarantee that this film will be required study material in acting classes for now on. In conclusion definitely one of the best of 2002. "},{"Title":"Strong performances save the day.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"70 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Robin Williams does steal the show.  He's an underrated actor, who, given a good script can deliver a mind boggling performance.  That's exactly what One hour photo is, a good script with brilliant performances.  The whole cast does an excellent job of showing how the events of one deranged man can impact the lives of many.  Let's get one thing straight, though, this not a mainstream movie.  It is very much an independant film.  If you don't like movies with little action or a low budget don't see this movie. This film is good because of its' strong performances and decent script. I must say, though, without Williams as the lead, this movie would not have been as good as it was. "},{"Title":"Above average stalker flick that avoids some of the clichés","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"56 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seymour is a lonely nondescript man who lives by himself and works in the photo developing lab in a large mall.  The only bit of cheer in his day is to develop very good photos in his lab, and he takes great pride in his work. His favourite customers are the Yorkin's, who have a son and regularly develop pictures.  Seymour's like for this family goes beyond `like' and he feels part of their family and has all their pictures on his wall.  However when both his job and the unity of his family are threatened he reacts.I  saw this film in a free preview screening before it came out so I had no reviews to cloud me first.  Happily most of them appear to feel the same as I did.  In terms of plot this set up will be no surprise to anyone &#150; we've all seen Single White Female and Pacific Heights etc, we know what happens that leads to the old bunny boiling etc.However One Hour Photo is different enough to justify watching.  My wife complained that it was too slow and boring but I felt this approach helped it stand out.  Instead of being a thriller it was more of a cold slow boiler than was more chilling than thrilling.  The plot is well laid out &#150; even the money shot of all the pictures on the wall is played out while we're distracted by a joke from the Simpsons on TV.  The director's cold approach to story telling works very well and highlights Seymour's grey existence and cold life.  Only occasionally does he go astray &#150; the fantasy sequences don't always work for instance but for almost the whole film he does very well.Towards the end Seymour's behaviour goes erratic as we expect and I was worried that the film had eventually given way to cliché.  Happily this is not the case.  Yes, Seymour's change is a bit of a leap at first but the film cleverly pulls it back at the end.  This makes it above the rest of this genre by a good head and shoulders.  Clever touches abound in the film but don't always work.  For example the director shows us that it is all about seeing by covering Seymour's eyes with objects in some shots to show he has lost his ability to watch, while the name Yorkin is a slight play on `Your Kin' or your family.  These are clever but don't add very much &#150; the eye theme felt a bit too clever and intrusive.Williams is excellent.  Having paid to see him mush around in Patch Adams I was worried here that eventually his emotions would run away with him.  However Williams (and here's something you'd won't hear much) keeps it all in check and underplays wonderfully.  His Seymour is likeable, sad, pathetic and chilling all at once.  It's hard not to feel for him and he is better for being low-key.  I truly felt Williams had turned himself into a `little' man &#150; one of those people who you barely notice on the streets as they make no lasting image.  Vartan (Alias) is good as Will and Nielsen is also good as Nina.  They are also given firm support in the shape of Gary Cole and La Salle.  However his is Williams show and, by underplaying, he steals it easily.Overall this has it's flaws but it is head and shoulders above the rest of this stalker genre.  Directed with a clinic eye rather than a thrilling eye this is clever and different enough to more than justify checking it out. "},{"Title":"Not Hitchcock but closer than most","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"49 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A seemingly innocuous man's descent into madness, and its effect on a family, gives One Hour Photo an advantage over most attempts at psychological thrillers.  As with most movies, even critical darlings by the master himself, Mr. Hitchcock, there are questionable plot contrivences and scenes where reality has to be suspended, but these annoyances did not interfere with the total enjoyment of the movie.  Williams was eerily brilliant as Sy, The Photo Guy, and was able to travel between chillingly detached and forcefully angry with ease.  The brilliant use of stark colors fleshed out the film, and those that garner enjoyment from the sets and cinematography, as well as the dialogue, will be pleased.  This is a film for those that enjoy the total movie experience, and those that appreciate an intensity in their psychological thrillers will not be disappointed. After viewing this film, the question now becomes who gets the Oscar, Williams for One Hour Photo, or Pacino for Insomnia ?  "},{"Title":"A special movie...about REAL life...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"67 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truely special film that hasn't got its proper recognition. People just don't get it...This movie is about REAL life, REAL people, and REAL problems...Hollywood has had a bad habbit of sugar coating reality.  All movies have happy endings??? The good guy always win???  Everyone is beautiful???Give me a break.  Hollywood has the tendency of making the bad BAD and the good GOOD.  I think most people are somewhere in the middle. I believe that everyone has a dark side and a good side.  We're always so quick to judge, label, and forget about people.A little advice to people in general, never forget anyone.Powerful film, excellent score (soundtrack).  I recommend this film to all those mature enough to pay attention. "},{"Title":"Romanek is up and coming","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Romanek pays attention to the minute details often overlooked by most directors through the use of natural lighting, exceptional cinemaphotography that gives you a moment to take in the scenery and a soundtrack that doesn't force the viewer to keep fiddling with the volume.  At 90 minutes in length, there is no pointless filler doesn't bore you and irrelevant side plots to push it to the 2-hour mark.  It's a movie you can sit back and enjoy without feeling distracted by ridiculous special effects, jittery camera work or a disjointed plot.  It has a peaceful, deep and thoughtful feel to the narration and dialog that is enhanced and complimented by the soundtrack.  You can identify with the characters because they're not some Hollywood fantasy - but real and identifiable everyday people who react as you would expect everyday people to react.Robin Williams has proven that he's a versatile actor.  I've always liked his characters in comedies (i.e., Mork and Mindy, The Birdcage and Death to Smoochy) - however he really shines in more dramatic roles (Moscow on the Hudson and Awakenings).  His character Sy in One Hour Photo takes him to the next level, but he's not the center of attraction.  This is a good thing. Romanek gives the movie a sense of balance by giving characters depth and dimension.  He makes sure that the perfect family that is the focus of Sy's obsession has problems just like everyone else in spite of their picture perfect affluent lifestyle.  We see that while Sy succeeds at work with a warm, friendly disposition - his personal life is cold and lonely with his surroundings at home the same impersonal and sterile environment at work. Sy's character fits perfectly.Another bright spot in One Hour Photo was Dylan Smith, who played the son of the family that Sy is obsessed with.  He's a natural actor who has the ability to play natural characters - an average kid who does a splendid job of acting as an average kid.  Romanek doesn't insult the viewer by subjecting us to the stereotypical, annoying, mouthy, whiny, know-it-all kid with the bowl haircut that has ruined movie after movie.If I could change something - I would cast someone other than Gary Cole to play Sy's boss.  Maybe it's the MST3K fan inside me saying this, but after seeing Office Space many times, I kept waiting for him to reincarnate the role of Bill Lumbergh in even the most subtle way, mmmm-kay?.  Romanek knew how not to cross the fine line that separated Cole's role as the sadistic boss in Office Space from boss in One Hour Photo.I give this movie a 9.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Mr. Williams Steals The Show In This Clever Little Chiller","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" On face value, 'One Hour Photo' may seem like an average thriller but you'll be in for a surprise if you think so. It is a clever little movie that works both as a psychological thriller and an intriguing character study. Thankfully it does not have the absurd twists one has witnessed in the overrated 'Fatal Attraction' or nonsensical ones like in 'Single White Female' or 'The Hand That Rocks the Cable'. The storytelling is very coherent and the portrayal of the characters is very subtle.This isn't a fast-paced thriller. Writer and director Romanek takes his time to tell the story but that does not make 'One Hour Photo' boring. On the contrary, it allows us to discover the shades of Seymour and allows the viewer to feel sympathy for but also be fear of him. Likewise, we also discover the family Seymour/Sy stalks. At first they appear to be like a happy American family but soon we see, through Seymour's point of view, that reality is something else. Romanek creates a very gloomy cold atmosphere. The viewer does feel Seymour's loneliness from the busy supermarket to his claustrophobic apartment. The film is very well shot as it highlights the gloominess, indifference and closed atmosphere. Romanek also approaches interesting themes about what photographs mean i.e. proof of ones existence (beautifully explained in the film). While people take pictures of happy moments, their reality is something else.Coming to the performances, what would 'One Hour Photo' be without Robin Williams? The actor is in a completely different form and he does an excellently downplays Sy. Sy is gentle, polite, pathetic and creepy. Williams really brings a humane quality to the character rather than portray him as the clichéd stalker. Nielsen and Vartan are good too. La Salle and Cole give sufficient support. But, in the end, it's a one man show that belongs to Mr. Williams.There are a few very minor flaws such as a few scenes where reality is suspended but overall this is a cleverly chilling film that deserves to be watched but do not expect lots of murder, bloodshed, or silly twists like boiling a live rabbit. "},{"Title":"clinical stalking for williams","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  well it was a pleasant surprise to see williams in this type of role and succeeding. although he played the very questionable (and dodgy) killer in insomnia, his role in one hour photo was very near perfect in this minor gem of a film. granted williams has been actively pursuing these alternative roles of late and yes it could be construed as being a cynical move on his behalf, however this does not detract from the fact that his role in photo was scarily on the mark.the directors (romanek) flair for colour synchronicity and immaculate art direction does not stray far from his beginnings as a music video director, however it is this attention to detail and precision that accentuates williams when he chooses to lose the plot. a memorable scene in the film of william's characters eyes squirting blood is in stark contrast to the ordered white formica and polished chrome surfaces that intimate to the spectator a feeling of staring intently at snapshots of a desperate man's life.if this film was to have any criticism is in the roles of the supporting actors. they are hardly fleshed out and as a spectator i felt that at times i was watching the robin william's rebirth show, however this is a minor point. if i were to mark this out of 10 i would give it a strong 8. "}{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  My husband and the other couple we were with started putting it down as soon as we stood up, but its because they prefer formula movies.  If you like to know whats going to happen next, don't bother with this movie.  This is a thinking man's movie.  Its the kind of film that makes you stop and think about it for days after.When we got into the car, we began discussing it, and all three of them changed their assessment of the movie.  It turns out they really hadn't gotten the nuances and hidden messages.  They just didn't understand it. This film is incredibly subtle.  It does not take you where you think it will.  You think you know whats going to happen next, but you actually have no idea.If you haven't seen the film, stop reading here, because I'm going to talk about the plot.  If you haven't seen it, you shouldn't read anything about it - just go in without any assumptions.This movie was frightening, heartening, disheartening, disturbing, incredible.  Robin Williams plays a character that is absolutely nutted up.  He is a perfectionist, an obsessive person, a man with no family, no warmth, no life.  He works in a sterile environment in which there is no warmth, no life.  His apartment is sterile and cold.  As the film begins, Williams' character gets into his car and there is a crack in the windshield and this is the point at which his life begins to crack up.During the film I felt afraid of the Williams character, I felt sorry for him, I wanted him to get caught, I wanted him to get away, I wanted him to have a life, I wanted him to have warmth - the movie carried me back and forth emotionally.  For example, at one point the Williams character goes to the little boy's softball game and I was worried something bad was going to happen to the boy.  I mean, it gets your mind going, and you are thinking, What do I want here?  Do I want the boy to make friends with Williams? Do I just want Williams to get away from the boy?What a brilliant performance.  I think Robin Williams should be nominated for an academy award for this film.  I think its the best thing I've ever seen him in. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Surprise","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd heard about this movie, it came and went, then finally I rented it on DVD and I loved it. Robin Williams' acting is a very brilliant surprise. Every shot keeps you interested in what will follow. From the opening scene with Sy wanting to look at his photos during the police interrogation, I kept wanting to see these myself. His creepy, put-upon persona reminded me of several people I'd been acquainted with over the years, and, yes, even reminded me of some of my own neediness.Even though I know he ends up getting into trouble, I kept thinking don't do this (making extra print copies for himself - taking photos of his ex-Manager's daughter - having a heated argument with the Xerox repairman, holding the knife on hubby Yorkin and his girlfriend, forcing them to simulate sex for the photos) but he did it anyway. The cinematography was pin-point perfect, with white fluorescent lights in the Sav-Mart, dim, almost sepia tone in his apartment, eerie bluish tint in the hotel parking garage during the police chase.I'd read Williams was originally offered the part of the store Manager, but I was so grateful he asked for the part of Sy instead. He became him. Just like Nicole Kidman in whichever project you happen to see her in, Williams becomes chameleon-like in this character. In other films of his, it's not like he actually becomes a character, more like him being a personality used to sell tickets (Patch Adams, Toys, Hook, Jumanji, etc. - none of which I have a desire to see). The last time he was really submerged into character was with Popeye (aha - Altman knew what to do with him).I bought this on DVD, yet I was at a friend's house and it was shown on FX this past Sunday evening, being the first time I saw this in a while. I'm definitely putting this one in the machine very soon.Now, going into Wal-Mart or any other store of that nature, seeing the One-Hour-Photo department just hasn't been the same.What leads me to think this is, in part, a satire on what darkness could lurk in the minds of department store employees, is that when I see these people now, I sometimes stop and wonder what their lives are like after 9pm (or 10 if you're in a Target).Some DVD fun - keep this on the main menu screen with the loop of the opening theme music, watching photos of Robin Williams flash on screen (designed after photo packets). Sit there and stare for a while, you'll be hypnotized.Nice features include behind-the-scenes footage with interviews interspersed with rehearsal footage and outtakes. Williams really hams it up, parodying the scene he and the other actor are about to perform. "},{"Title":"pretentious crap","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the movie is an exercise in tedious story-telling, and a boring story at that. every second shot seems to be a close-up of mr. williams, with his bleached and thinned hair and the awkward glasses every psychopath needs. the fact that mr. williams character is a lonely and depressed man is made abundantly clear by a series of boring staged shots of him sitting alone in an empty room, whether its the cafeteria or his own home.the picure-book perfect family could have been interesting, but the director and/or screenwriter obviously couldnt decide at which point to show the real family situation behind the happy facade. first we see the parents and their son cuddling on the sofa while looking at their pictures of the sons birthday party. the next scene is a tender good-night scene between mother and son where she states that not everybody is as lucky as we are. however, the very next time we see the family, the parents are having a shouting match over money and personal issues, while the son watches and runs off crying. that scene seems so misplaced and badly directed that from that point onwards the whole family structure is so uninteresting that one couldnt care less what happens to them.mr. williams actions in the hotel room towards the end of the movie seem furthermore totally unrelated to the trauma he obviously suffered as a child. his idea of punishment projected to an adult couple just doesnt make sense  regarding his own past. it is just as incompetent as the whole story. and then there are the photos themselves. i just kept asking myself, if the family consists of three people, who then is always taking those pictures of the three? the same goes for the holiday pictures of the husband. did they hire a personal photographer to come along with them on the holiday so they could get those perfect couple shots on the beach? and the kid of course always considered the importance of complementary colors when shooting his pics so that a bright blue teddy bear sits next to an orange balloon and that a pair of red rubber boots are seen standing on a very green lawn! all those pictures are so art-directed and staged that they in themselves rob the movie of all credibilty. "},{"Title":"A stunning, sympathetic portrait of a damaged man and the forces that tend to make such men","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No, One Hour Photo is not for the faint of heart. Nor is it a movie to see if all you want is the escapism the movies so often offer us. For those who want that, there are no shortage of other movies out there, and good ones in their own right.Robin Williams characterization of Sy, the Photo Guy is wonderful, one of his best, a chilling, humanizing and many-layered portrait of a deeply disturbed individual. What struck me most in watching the performance was the tug-of-war in my own mind about his questionable sanity and his motives. While it's extremely clear from the start that he suffers some significant psychopathology, the ending leaves one wondering (at least a little) about the method madness, and whether it is he that is sick, or human society in the 21st century. We've come quite far from the use of psychopathology as a plot driver since such movies as DePalma's Dressed to Kill.I don't wish to include any spoilers here.  Suffice it to say that by the end I felt that where Seymour went wrong (aside from his obsession) was in having motives that in a sense were a little too good, too moralistic, too rigid... but for reasons that the film ultimately justifies, without excusing or judging. I could see virtually nothing in the writing that was gratuitous or unearned, even if the situations did become rather extreme. Each character remained believable, and even those one was set up to dislike, such as Sy's boss (Gary Cole) were neither presented as saints nor absolute demons, but merely as flawed human beings with motives and drives that sometimes contributed to the unfortunate chain of events that are the throughline of the movie.Rather than demonize Sy, the central character, those who made this work bring us into Sy's mind in a way that is quite certain to be deeply discomfiting to many, but with a compassion and honesty that is only rarely achieved these days (or at any time in the past) in the movies.The screenwriter-director, Mark Romanek, is a talent I hope will go on to greater public appreciation with time, but whether that happens or not, may his projects always find a green light somewhere. He has only directed one other feature film I'm aware of, STATIC, which seems nearly impossible to find on video. The rest of his work, as is so often the case with visually stunning directors, has been in music video, including videos for Madonna and Nine Inch Nails.If I could find fault with anything about the movie it would be in the marketing. Where Romanek and Williams make Sy appear as a deeply flawed (and deeply disturbed) human being, he is clearly presented utmost as a sympathetic character.  This is quite a feat in an era where paranoia is rampant, especially when it comes to stalkers and the mentally disturbed. Yet the marketing campaign seems to present the simplistic cliche of the creepy stalker, emphasizing only the monstrous aspects of his nature.I've noted in reviews here and elsewhere a certain polarization of opinion surrounding this film. Perhaps some of those who disliked the film were drawn in by the promises made in posters and ads, and felt cheated (or confused) that this was not the one-dimensional suspense thriller that marketing tried to sell it as?  "},{"Title":"Close to Modern Hitchcock!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I begin, I should mention that I have been an Alfred Hitchcock fan since the age of five, and for me to even compare any film made in the last twenty years to even the worst Hitchcock film is totally unheard of.  I view hitchcock as most film buffs view Orson Welles.  With that being said, I left the movie theater after viewing One Hour Photo utterly spellbound. The same uneasy (not necessarily nervous) feeling that one experiences during a film like Notorious or North By Northwest can be experienced here.  The audience isn't scared of Williams' character, they're uncomfortable around him, which is just how the other characters in the film view him.  The other great element of the film is that it is easy to follow.  While the trend in the mystery / thriller genre of today is to confuse and disorientate the audience as a means of creating tension, the director takes down a straight road that has several bumps along the way, which provides the same tension without all the confusion (See this film, then watch either Memento or Mulholland Drive).  I can go on and on, but I will leave you with the this as a close to this review.  This is the first film in some years that I left the movie theater feeling that I really got my money's worth ($8.00 per ticket).  "},{"Title":"Riveting Suspense","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This one gets an A+ from me.  Stark terror in broad daylight.  This is not an action movie, but very much a suspense movie in the Hitchcock tradition.  Not for hyperkinetic teens -- no big gunfights, extended chase scenes, or fireballs -- but for adults who like suspense.  It is like a Shyamalan film without the gore, and nothing like Silence of the Lambs.I am always amazed when Hollywood does something original.  But this one managed to surprise me constantly -- I had no clue about what would happen next at the big plot turns.BIT OF A SPOILERThe appeal of One Hour Photo would be a lot broader if they could give away the fact that nothing horrible happens and there are no blood and intestines.  (Well actually there is a chase scene.)  In fact, it has a happy ending and is something of a feel good movie, albeit following an hour of nail-biting.  Again, it is very much like The Sixth Sense, or Signs, in this regard.I don't go for artsie movies, but One Hour Photo has a plot that kept me riveted from start to finish.  This is really the best movie I have seen all year -- I was on the edge of my seat from start to finish.I have disliked Robin Williams in every movie he has made for the past 5 or 10 years -- for me, this is his first major success in drama.  He has returned to something closer to his character in Fisher King and it really suits him. "},{"Title":"A promising directorial debut combined with yet another surprising performance by Robin Williams","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When the movie ended I was momentarily upset because I felt the climax was too vague.  But the more I thought about it, the more things fell into place.  If you like your movies, crystal clear and are expecting Hanibal Lecter, this picture is not for you.  On the other hand, if you occasionally like something a little more cerebral, that perhaps makes you uncomfortable, and forces you to ponder optional realities, you're about to take a ride on a moral roller coaster.  At the end, ask yourself, who is the bad guy and who is the hero?SPOILER  I felt that Sy took the pictures of his manager's daughter, not primarily to get back at him, but rather to purposely attract attention. He knew from his job that the pictures would result in the authorities being called.  He wanted them on his trail because he wanted to lead them to the adulterous William Yorkin.  When Nina Yorkin failed to react to the real photos of her philandering husband the way he'd hoped, Sy decides to give her some graphic `booster' shots, and give her husband a wake-up call at the same time.  Only when Sy is sure that the police have arrived at the hotel does he attempt to make his escape, thereby insuring the police will also encounter Yorkin and Maya in their hotel.  Thus, Sy makes it impossible for the Yorkins to go on living a lie.  I feel Sy believed he was saving them for their sake and for their son.  It's left open to you whether or not you think he succeeded.As to theories about the snapshots at the end, I seem to recall the police said there were TWO rolls of film, one in Sy's bag and one still in the camera that he left in the hotel.  At the beginning, the detective says `We processed the roll of film in your bag.  They are not very pretty pictures' and  `What did William Yorkin do to provoke you?' implying they are prints from the first roll that we see Sy take of Yorkin and Maya--but we never see those prints.  Instead, at the end of the film, we see the prints from the roll that was still in the camera.  But, anticipating the former, we are confused, stunned or surprised when we instead see the bizarre shots he took after he returned to his room.  The director leaves it to the viewer to interpret the meaning of those.As to the family photo that preceeds the credits, Robin Williams said (on the DVD) he felt it was Sy's dream of the way things might have been or could still be.  The director said it was up to the viewer.One Hour Photo did contain some flaws as noted her in other reviews. However, given that it was Mark Romanek's first screenplay I think we should cut him some slack, and look for something even better from him next time. My rating, 3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Excellent film- very thought provoking","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll try to avoid divulging anything actually in the plot and touch on the overriding themes.  Yes, it is conspicuously disturbing and probably should be filed under the same classification that contains Full Metal Jacket and A Clockwork Orange and consequently is rightly rated R.  That said, for the right audience, it delves into the quandary oft pondered, Where does categorical love cease and morph into destructive psychological illness?  Furthermore, focus on the plight of the lonely white lower-middle class worker who feels that society (read special interests and the government) neglects him but chooses to forgo complaining. Probably the the most potent element to the film is that it is quite realistic.  The acting, script, and plot stand muster.  9/10.  "},{"Title":"Great movie which has Robin Williams in the performance of his career","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story, in case you don't know, is that a one-hour photo employee named Sy (played by Robin Williams) is obsessed with a family that frequently visits. From every roll of film they bring in, he makes copies just for himself. He soon begins to imagine that he is a part of the family. He really does like these people, and wants nothing more than for them to like him. He gives the 9-year old boy free toys and such from the store he works. He does lots of things in hope of them liking him. I don't want to say that much more, in fear of giving too much away, but it gets extremely disturbing.It would be a crime to not give Robin Williams an Academy Award nomination for this role. He does this so well that while watching it, you sometimes forget that this is the same person that was once a loveable character like Mrs. Doubtfire. By far Robin Williams's best performance to date. The other performances in this movie were also convincing. But this is Robin's show.Mark Romanek does a great directing job and writes a great screenplay here. One hell of a movie debut for him.To sum it up One Hour Photo is my favorite film of 2002 so far. Robin Williams gives us the performance of his career, and Mark Romanek comes off with one of the best debuts in recent memory. This movie is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I never thought I'd say this  Robin Williams' performance made me cry","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *spoilers below*What an amazing film.  This is definitely Robin Williams' best performance ever.  He's so believable that you forget it's Robin Williams up there on screen; this guy IS Sy.  I actually cried at the part of the movie when Sy cried while looking through the pictures Jake took.  I never thought Robin Williams could make me cry, but he did... which is a good thing.  If you see this film, you'll feel how painful his empty and practically nonexistent life is.  Also, the dialog was unexpectedly realistic.  Besides Sy's explanation of why he did what he did near the end, other dialog that stood out was when Nina told her son that everybody knows that Sy's sad, and that they should just HOPE he feels happier.  It would've been better if they actually DID something instead of just hoping he would feel better, but, sadly, that's the way life is.  Only one thing bothered me the very last frame!  What was that?  Why were we shown a happy picture of Sy with the Yorkins?  Did it represent how Sy still thought he was still connected to the family?  That last frame was very confusing and does nothing but hamper the ending.   Many people believe One Hour Photo will be a thriller (based on what they see in the the trailer), but it's the farthest thing from it; it's more like a drama... a really disturbing, heartwrenching, beautiful drama that few will see because of limited release.  Trust me, this film isn't for everyone, but those who see it will be satisfied.  Wonderful job, Robin!My rating  9 out of 10 (It'd be 10 out of 10 if it wasn't for the confusing last frame) "}{"Title":"Too good for Oscar","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo provided me with a mixture of extreme sadness and pure delight. The main character, who`s a real peeping tom, is played with such sincerity by Robin Williams who seems to have gotten the hang of playing the bad guy (last seen in Insomnia).In style and theme it`s easy to compare this flick with films like Magnolia and American Beauty, by which all of them portrays the crucial and life-changing moments which happens to the protagonist. I wouldn`t complain if OHP won an Oscar for best film, but unfortunately the statuette will probably go to some extravagant story with no references to most peoples personal life (ala Gangs of New York)instead of this wonderful treasure. Bye "},{"Title":"The best film I've seen in the past 8 months.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo is a must-see movie.  Robin Williams does an incredible job playing a lonely and creepy man.  Unlike most of the pictures I've seen recently (Signs and Minority Report for example), the ending was not flat or anti-climactic.  I never once felt like a line was out of place or unimportant.  Everything made sense and there were no true surprises.  A well-written screenplay and many great performances made this a movie worth seeing over and over. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty dark.  I would definitely recommend it, but it is not for everyone.You really get to caring for this guy and you are constantly wondering what the heck he's doing.  Its a great movie, I was glued to my seat even though there was not much action, yet it is riveting. "},{"Title":"Williams' creepy turn a success","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I always knew that Robin Williams could do more than make us laugh.I knew that if he wanted to,he could scare us to death.Williams' turn as the loner willing to do bad things all in the name of right is done with dead on precision.There was always a versatility beneath the comedic improvisation we know him for.Williams executed this role with flying colors.So well,in fact,that I often forgot he was merely acting.While the supporting cast has their moments,this film is all Williams.His character is comparable to a certain deranged cab driver played by Robert DeNiro all those years ago.Though DeNiro's performance will never be topped,Williams work here ranks right up there.Well worth watching "},{"Title":"This movie was horrible","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, what a let down. First I was bored to death with the first half of this movie. I only paid attention with hopes of a really disturbing ending. To be nice Williams played a good psycho and some of the camera work was interesting. But this movie gave me cinematic blueballs. It just didn't live up to the build up. I would recommend this movie to all my enemies. If you wanna do a case study on anti-climatic endings than One Hour Photo is all you need. Save your time and money for something else- anything else! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Robin Williams Movie, Even if it is Not a Comedy","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just don't tire of this film. On the evening of his announced passing, we watched this film as a tribute to this unique individual. By the way, on the DVD he provides audio commentary. A rarity from him. Basically the story is about a lonely man who identifies himself with a family and it become an obsession. Strong performances and the music is perfect for this film.As a former one hour photo worker, I can identify with some of the aspects of his job. Also I worked at Wal Mart and the filmmakers replicated its look pretty well.I sure wouldn't want a boss like Gary Cole's character! He is subtle and tyrannical!This movie was even written up in Fangoria back then. Not bad for a non-gory film. Well there was a small scene with blood or a photo chemical......If you get the DVD, check out the outtakes. There you'll see Williams doing his shtick, sort of showing the comic side of One Hour Photo. It is pretty funny!Thanks, Robin. "},{"Title":"This film succeeds solely through the phenomenal performance by Mr. Williams.","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo as a film has its share of flaws, but none of them are related to Robin Williams' powerful and haunting performance. It's his fullest and yet most restrained effort to date. One Hour Photo creates an effective portrait of a lonely, deranged man becoming increasingly frantic. He crosses the line from being harmless and pathetic, to being dangerous when he can no longer differentiate between fantasy and reality. There comes a time when it is no longer enough for him to fantasize, when the role of distant observer, no longer satisfies. Robin plays the role of a man named Sy, who runs the photo-developing lab at the local Savmart. Sy has nothing in his life but his job and his fantasies -- no friends, no family, no wife, and no girlfriend. He looks depressed in tranquility and suicidal when he smiles. Sy's obsessive nature has a good side. The prints he develops in his lab really do look gorgeous, and takes pride in his work. On the other hand, he is also developing a fixation on a family, the Yorkins, and has an entire wall of his apartment plastered with photos of them dating back 10 years. And now -- though the movie never specifies an emotional trigger -- he is losing his grip of reality, falling further into his delusional thoughts. Much of ''One Hour Photo'' informs the audience through visual stylization. The cinematography is as finely detailed as Sy himself. Williams inhabits a carefully selected color scheme, a world of harsh whites and washed-out blues, illuminated by the glare of fluorescent bulbs. Director Mark Romanek pays more attention to this style than giving depth to his characters and plotting, exploring Sy's psychosis but never really delving into the reasons behind it. A disturbing yet compelling film that pulls you in solely on the merit of Williams' fantastic performance. "},{"Title":"Well acted character study needed more of a payoff.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams proves with this film that his performance in Insomnia was not a fluke. He can play a creep as well as he can play a funny character. His performance in this film is mesmerizing, while the whole project seems to build up suspense then fizzle around him.Williams plays Sy Parrish, a mild-mannered clerk in charge of developing pictures at a Wal-Mart type store in some unnamed suburbia. Williams comes off as lonely and overbearing as he obsesses over a young couple (the Yorkins) and their son. It seems that he has made a copy for himself of every picture the couple has brought in to the store for development over the years. He has even gone as far as building a collage on one of his apartment walls of these pictures. Sy fantasizes about being a part of their family. In one sequence, he even imagines himself in their home using the toilet and watching a Michigan State football game on the tube. With no living family of his own, Sy has nobody else he feels close to.Things start falling apart for Sy by the end of the first hour. He is fired from the store when a large discrepancy of photographs were found to occur on his shifts. His boss hates him anyway, and that was the excuse he used to get rid of the old man. Sy seems to suspect that the Yorkin family has turned him in, so he decides to get some revenge on the husband. He follows him to a hotel and forces he and his mistress to pose in some pornographic photographs, presumably before slicing them up with a large hunting knife. Sounds interesting enough, but at the end, we find out that nothing really happens to Mr. Yorkin or his mistress. Sy just took pictures of various things in their hotel room; not even of the couple themselves. Okay.....I can't say for sure what the point of this film really is. Other than letting Williams show us how talented he is, there really isn't much to the whole thing. The film is certainly no classic, but it's definitely worth seeing once. Especially if you like Robin Williams. And who really doesn't like the furry little guy????? 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A movie worth watching, despite the depressing protagonist...","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the most depressing movies I have seen.  I have seen movies I thought were much more depressing, such as Breaking the Waves. This movie, however, had the saddest protagonist.The plot was outstanding.  You delved into the character's mind and his thoughts.  You understood his desperation to be a part of a family he would never have.  However, his ruthless steps in teaching lessons and invading privacies left me nervous and a little creeped out.Watch it.  It is a masterpiece in cinema works.  Robin Williams' plasticity in roles never ceases to amaze me; this was no exception. "},{"Title":"Call it an Omen, but Oscars are knocking on hour door.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I will not take long, because this movie is one of those where you can actually make an extended comment on why you loved it; you just do.That's what happened to me with One Hour Photo, so far the best movie of the year, alongside Minority Report. The cast, the direction, script, music, cinematography and production design are all top notch, coming up in the cast are specially the impressive performances by Robin Williams, and girl hysteria motive Michael Vartan; he is a real talent. As for Connie Nielsen, I also have loss of words, she is always great, Devil's Advocate, Gladiator... you name it.Enough said, go prove for yourself, saying much would be spoiling, so check it out.A definite 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Evil Williams at his best, what a finish !!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams completes his evil-hattrick (Insomnia, Death to Smoochy & this one, red.).....and what a finish !! The suspense will have you on the edge of your seat.Robin, a very lonely one-hour photo lab-employee creates his own reality. He has become obsessed with a young suburban family and imagines he is 'Uncle' Sy the Photoguy. When Sy gets fired because of his strange hobby, he flips and goes after his boss and the cheating husband.This movie walks a thin line between reality and Sy's psychoses, leaving you wondering What is real ? "},{"Title":"This movie was made by","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...starring Robin Williams.  A very excellent performance by a great actor, his limits show no boundaries.  He pretty much made the movie, the other actors were good, but some showed definite acting weaknesses.  It was an independent film, so it was definitely different than your run-of-the-mill main stream pictures.  I could see how some critics could say the movie is slow, I consider it character/scene development.  You have to be prepared for this type of pace, if so you will definitely come out enjoying it. "},{"Title":"You won't see Robin Williams. You'll see Sy.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is a masterpiece? Maybe a movie masterfully directed, powerfully acted, with a believable and deep screenplay and with a superb use of score, cinematography and art direction.Is One Hour Photo a masterpiece?I'm almost sure.Mark Romanek, better known for directing videos for bands such as The Rentals, makes his feature film debut with an original screenplay of his own about loneliness and the alienation of our society. A sad story about sad people, and a frightening tale with ordinary life monsters.Of course this is the kind of movie that is better watch without anything spoiled at all, so I won't bore you with the plot... instead, I'll go straight to the artistic evaluation of the film. Having said that, why not start with the cinematography? I have to say that this is one of the best uses of cinematography I've seen in the whole story of movie making... the cold, boring Sy (Robin Williams) life is full of cold colors that will remind you of Stanley Kubrick's 2001... but the irruption of Sy's family is underlined by a subtle change into Kodak style colors... that's the line between Sy's increasing madness and real life. The score, which we could consider minimalist is also perfectly used to underline the increasing tension and is no wonder that Romanek has a lot of experience shooting videos... the only score flaw, however is that some rithym reminded me a lot of Filter's version of One (as published in The X Files Movie soundtrack). This is one of those movies in which everything (art direction, costumes, cinematography, sound, editing) seem to match to perfection.For the acting, the supporting cast is believable, and Connie Nielsen is the stand out. She's a lovely wife and mother, but not a cliched one... she's believable. In fact, I bought this family as a real family, I easily forgot that these people were actors (the screenplay develop this characters to the exact point of making us actually care for them without distracting that the focus of our attention is Sy and his devotion for them).So here we get to the whole point of the buzz surrounding this movie is this the best Robin Williams performance ever?Yes.This is not Robin Williams acting. This a candid camera work into Sy's life. How many times can you really say that after watching a movie? Not many, I guess. Robin Williams and Mark Romanek are under control of this movie and not in a single frame they lose it (well, I have just a problem with a shot... but it is a single shot and it is perfectly explained, so why really bother).And for the direction, I've just said it all strong, accurate, perfect at acting and composition... the best director nod should be assured. Mark Romanek has achieved one of the best film debuts I can remember in a long time (maybe since Quentin Tarantino and Tim Robbins debuts in 1992 with Reservoir Dogs and Bob Roberts)... Romanek is not a promise, he is a reality.This film will be compared (it was compared, due to the similarity of the origins of Romanek and Spike Jonze) with Being John Malkovich.. but it is not an accurate comparison. One Hour Photo is a serious approach to its issues, while Malkovich played with surrealism in order to surprise the audience. In Photo, it is the use of icons (as unexpected as a toy, for example) which can surprise you with unexpected references. As you can see, I really dug this movie, which was leaving me in awe in every scene... till a point that I can't do anything but surrender to the fact that Romanek's movie will play a very influential role in the next years.What about the Oscars? There is a difference between what it should and what it can be... Picture, Director, Actor, Supporting Actress, Original Screenplay, Score, Cinematography, Film Editing and Sound nominations should be in their deserved way. Reality is that given the competition, this may be overlooked and simply in the best of the scenarios get an Actor and an Original Screenplay nominations (maybe even wins). But as the reviews are highly positive, maybe the top 10 lists will fuel its chances and we'll see a One Hour Photo's clip at Oscar Night.Make Sy happy. Actually, he deserves it. "},{"Title":"This movie was great.  Williams's performance was fantastic.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The use of symbolism, music and lighting keeps the viewer intrigued to see the next scene throughout the entire picture.  Great false scenes that keep you on the edge of your seat.  It's very easy to be drawn into Williams's character and forget who you are watching.  He really nailed this part.  "},{"Title":"Lots of Picture Taking","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Some how I seemed to have missed this picture and was amazed at the great acting of Robin Williams as a photo clerk who took his job very serious and envied a local family, especially the young attractive mom, Connie Nielsen,(Nina Yorkin),Return to Sender,'04, who enjoyed all the comforts of home and some what neglected her husband in the bedroom. Robin Williams,(Sy Parrish),The Final Cut,'04, put his heart and soul into every picture that he developed and had a very very large Album of his own at home. Sy Parrish had a very dark dark mental problem from his youth and it seemed to give him problems as he became very close to the Yorkin family and their son. If you like Robin Williams talent, this is definitely an entirely different role he had to perform in. "},{"Title":"A chilling but yet sad film.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After watching this film about 3 or 4 times I really understood the point. SY Parrish was truly a guy that I really felt sorry for because it was quite obvious that he had no one in his life. I strongly believe that even though SY got carried away with his obsession with the Yorkin family I feel that he truly cared about Jake and his mom. That is why I understood why he did some of what he did. SY however went about it the wrong way but all in all SY in a weird sense was trying to prove to Jake's Mother that Mr. Yorkin (Jake's Father) was a jerk, and I think Mr. Yorkin got what he deserved at the Hotel, the scare of his life to wake his A** up and make him see how he was hurting his family which at the end of this film it was clear that Mr. Yorkin felt bad about having the affair in the first place. The bottom line is this, even though this Movie was a thriller it was also sad and depressing-because I know people who are sad and lonely like SY and that is why my heart truly went out to SY because all he wanted was someone in his life to care about him. We all need to be loved. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  DON'T TURN OUT THE LIGHTS! This is one intense and downright disturbing film. It doesn't make you jump out of your seat, but instead slowly works on your nerves untill the tension is unbearable. The film is about Sy, the photo man. Sy (Robin Williams) works at a retail outlet in the photo department. Sy lives a lonely existence and has no friends or family. Over the years he has developed an obession with a seemingly perfect couple (Connie Nielsen and Michael Vartan) and their little boy. His obession is so great that almost all of Sy's entire apartment is covered with stolen pics of the family. However, when circumstances cause Sy to lose his job and he discovers that Vartan is cheating on Nielsen on the same day it sends him over the edge. Robin Williams does not just act the role of Sy, he becomes Sy. Williams performance is brave and 100% convincing. However, the weak narrative structure at the start and end of the film weaken it.Rated R; Torture, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A very weak plot...","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems to be not much more than a vehicle for Robin Williams to act up a storm, and that he does well.  The plot has so many holes in it I find it amazing that it got any good reviews.One example Sy finds the pictures of the cheating husband, with his girlfriend.  These look like candid shots of the both of them frolicking, kissing (or rather, about to kiss), hugging, etc. Who took these candid shots?  Did they stop a stranger in the street? Excuse me sir, could you take a picture of us just as we are about to kiss?Another example, just for good measure the police go to the hotel where they believe there might be some foul play taking place.  There are two rooms, Sy's room and the cheating couple's room.  The police first goes to Sy's room to find it empty and only then, to the other room.  Why do they not first go to the room where something awful might be happening?  or, better yet...  Why not send agents to *both* rooms, just in case?I could go on and on and on but, like the movie, it'd be to tedious. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant and dull, but not scary","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS (ALTHOUGH NONE THAT AREN'T REVEALED IN THE FIRST TWO MINUTES OF THE MOVIE)Robin Williams is actually quite good in this as the friendly, lonely, emotionally stunted loser Sy.  He makes a very human, even sympathetic psycho, and really disappears into the character--no small feat for such a recognizable performer.  Too bad the rest of the movie is such a waste.  The supporting performances (and performers) wouldn't look out of place in a soft-core porno (it doesn't help that every character but Sy is made of 100% cardboard).  At times, the director actually seems to be trying to frustrate suspense we know from the very first moments a) that Sy is a complete whack-job, b) that he survives, and c) that he gets nabbed by the cops at the end.  So all we're left to ponder is the hows and the whys, and the answers provided aren't all that interesting.The plot is plodding and contrived, and features some nonsensical moments (for instance, the husband berates his wife for her expensive tastes, even though she seems to spend all her free time at the local discount superstore).  About two thirds of the way through, Sy does something so irredeemably stupid that it makes one wonder how much he actually cares about his grand revenge scheme.  And the final clichéd explanation of his psychosis, right out of `Peeping Tom,' is a terrible copout.The dialogue is of the absolute worst sort.  It's not overwritten, or awkward, or unbelievable, or bad in any other way that could be considered fun, even for bad-movie lovers.  Instead, every line is purely, hideously functional--it's as if the director handed a plot outline to a newspaper copywriter and said, `Hey, I need a workable script on this--in an hour.'  It made me want to scream, honestly.This movie seems to be a throwback to the suburban beware-the-help thrillers of the eighties and nineties (`The Hand That Rocks the Cradle,' e.g.), and while it's certainly unpleasant, it's never really scary.  Sy's fetishism occasionally makes you feel uncomfortable, but on its own that's not enough to make the film work.  In the end, lack of craftsmanship from everyone involved, except Robin Williams, sinks this one.  3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Looking in","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" How do we understand film? Roughly two types of it, a matter of focus and placement of the eye; outside and inside. Most films that won Oscars are the first, most brilliant makers who furthered the craft of capturing images compete in the second. Just the first few sequences reveal about this, an ominous-looking camera looking straight at us as if to point inwards, a man in his lab bringing images to life, followed by happy birthday party footage as a way of saying that life is a matter of what images you choose and keep to remember. But the study feels obvious and watered down, a voice- over pontificates.The only thing of note is a softer ambiguity around suffering, this; the film begins with the man interrogated by police so we know that something bad has taken place, except we don't know what or how bad. Our mind races ahead, imagining the thriller. A whole sequence near the end as police storm the hotel room toys with just this anticipation of images, the camera enters the bathroom and we expect some atrocity. The crime was that he was robbed of what every human being needs, warmth and affection. The suffering is that the images he inhabits are not his own. In the end we see the images he did capture in the hotel room. I'm not quite sure what the filmmaker is pointing at here, judging by how watered down feels the rest I'm inclined to think it just means he was harmless, not prurient. But it feels powerful and apt, viewers here can imagine how it completes. "}{"Title":"about  solitude","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" one of films who seems be work of a single actor. a not bad thing. and a great illusion. because the script and Robin Williams performance are pillars of a good film but not enough. the essential part remains the viewer experience. because it is a film about solitude not as exception. a film about the fragile limits between your life and the others. and about the secret as key to impose your image about values respect, sense of your universe, power of perfect order. it is a good film. but after its end, you discovers than something missing. not the tension, seduction or the quality of acting/direction/script. but the courage to explore more deeply/not as moral lesson the pieces who defines the story. a nice movie. and a lot of possibilities ignored. "},{"Title":"Robin William's doing what he does best, not what he does normally.","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you've wondering why Robin's performance in One Hour Photo is usually considered his greatest performance by people who hate his comedy, myself, it's because you haven't seen the movie. He does NOTHING funny in this film. Wait, he does do something funny, but not Robin Williams-over-the-top-idiot-with-a-million-voices funny, ill get to it soon. The point is, he's taken on the roll of a lonely, depressed and run down senior with a true passion for quality in is line of work (a negative printer at the photo counter or photo-guy), a job where the mass production of sub-par material is the height of tedium in his existence, but occasionally he sees something that makes him smile with its beauty and wonder, and that's a real capture; smiling families, funny moments, and his favourite family, the Yorkins. This family he is unexplainably obsessed with, they don't realise it, and when you do it shifts the gentle persona of Si to one you suddenly want to watch our for. I liken this creepiness to the uncle you find out is a pedophile, in the scene switching between Si's flat, empty of personality and company, and the Yorkin's modern home where the mother puts the son to bed and tries to reassure her son that I'm sure Si has lots of friends. At this point he's standing in his kitchen with a glass of juice, staring into a black void and can only be thinking of the cause of his anguish and distain. This has to be the darkest moment of the movie for me. This job I mention, the photo-guy job that rarely but surely gives him such a beautiful day every now and then, becomes his mental and emotional demise when he discovers the husband of the Yorkins is having an affair, through the submitted negatives of his mistress. There is one scene in the movie where he sits his car outside the Yorkins house and imagines himself inside their house, mentally masturbating over the idea of wearing the husband's sweater, using their toilet and watching their TV. This is the funny part i mentioned. They come home unexpectedly and he's referred to as Uncle Si!From imagining himself as part of the family to finding out the husband of this perfectly moulded union is having an a affair has gutted him deeply and crushed all his faith in humanity. So he flips, doesn't he )Williams' character portrayal is brilliant to say the least and and the direction of the movie itself is nearly as brilliant. You could not a found a more suited man for this role. "},{"Title":"Creepy and Intense","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams does a great job of shedding his funny guy persona here. His Sy Parrish gives me the creeps &#x96; from that moment Connie Nielson's Nina Yorkin walks into his One-Hour Photo shop. Williams provides more creeps here than he did in Insomnia. Just take a look at the light thinning crew-cut hair on this bespectacled middle-aged man with the stone-cold, mousy looking eyes and very disturbing smile. He reminds me of a weird and twisted mind with many faces. Just observe Parrish's behavior and it'd be hardly impossible not to be afraid of him. Oh yes, the viewer will get to know his character &#x96; slowly and gradually, feeling the tease; wondering what he'd do next. It's his deceiving appearance that truly petrifies&#x85; an ordinary guy who seems so ordinary to some, yet turns out to be a low-keyed 'psychopath'. Yuks - that's exactly how I feel, studying him and his moves! The moments are very intense and scary. Look out for hints to Parrish's traumatic experiences because they help to connect the events and explain his fantasies and 'schizophrenic' wackiness. You truly have got to compare Michael Vartan's Will character to Gary Cole's Bill Owens. Maybe that too will help you accept the ending of the story. "},{"Title":"A  dramatic thriller story","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mr Seymour Parrish is an experienced photo technician, he works since many years in a big shopping center, printing pictures for a big quantity of clients. Within those years he made a kind of friendship with a nice particular family, especially Nina (Connie Nielsen) and young son Jake (Dylan Smith). They seems to realize that deep inside Sey looks like a sad lonely man. His kindness towards little Jake, whom he's been considering as an imaginary nephew, put Sey into some trouble at work. He's being accused of giving free goods, so he gets fired. Since then, frustrating Sey starts to lose control of his mind, becoming obsessed and extremely dangerous. Mr Parrish wants to see the only good side of people and he cannot figure it out why there are lies between people... The Mostly funny movies star Robin Williams gets his best performance as a drama, scary role, you won't recognize him. "},{"Title":"What clutters a man's wall is worth over a million words","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even though digital cameras are becoming less and less common, that doesn't mean One Hour Photo has become any less suspenseful or any less impressive. It serves as probably my favorite Robin Williams film, and proof that many comedic actors can take on a dramatic role effectively. The problem is, many don't take the opportunity when it comes.Robin Williams plays Seymour Sy Parrish, a photo-developer at a corporate giant known as SavMart. Despite Sy's soft-spoken, and generally harmless aging man appearance, he is actually a very depressed man who obsesses over the seemingly perfect family of the Yorkins. The Yorkins are the typical American family; a husband, a wife, and a young boy. Sy has been developing the Yorkin family photos for years, and is assuming the role of Uncle Sy in the Yorkin family.He does this, of course, because he does not have a family of his own. He lives alone in an apartment with a collage of photos of the Yorkins. All the pictures are plastered to the wall in order and neatness, leaving no gaps or overlaps. He begins to stalk the family after a certain period of time, and from that moment on, Sy isn't so harmless anymore - but actually mentally ill and in dire need of psychological help.Robin Williams jumps right into the role of Sy Parrish. He's creepy, stylish, believable, and scary. From the guy who has done things like Jumanji and other nonsensical films, here comes something you'd never see from a man who played a sailor who loved spinach at one point in his life.But the true talent here is director Mark Romanek, who has worked on many music videos for Nine Inch Nails, R.E.M., and Weezer. Romanek stayed true to the story of the film, revealing more and more informations about Sy and his intentions for the story that he made subtly on purpose. He gives descriptive backstory on why Sy is the way he is at the end, but you may have to do research to piece together everything. While Romanek explained a lot, you still have to come up with your own explanation for the ending. And my view on it is something I dare not give away because I feel it's one of the most mind-boggling, yet, thought-provoking endings in recent memory.During the course of the film, Sy narrates over it, which is nothing but fantastic. His narrations are very relaxed, in a quiet tone for much of the time. And scenes where he explains his customers and what pictures they take is extra information you wouldn't think a film like One Hour Photo would contain. Even graphic insight and personal opinions on cameras and pictures are given here. The film goes outside of its plot boundaries to deliver explicit detail to the audience. I can't thank Romanek enough for giving this an extra dimension to work with.I found this a tiny bit relatable to the film LOOK, which was made about seven years after this. LOOK was directed by Adam Rifkin, a relatively unsung director who shot the entire film with security cameras giving authentic depth and feel to it, while following not-so-innocent people around and connecting them in an anthology-like format. Both this and that show people that we could be being watched and not even know it. That's the power these films bring. And you only get more skeptical every time you watch them.One Hour Photo, even with repeated viewings, is disturbing, and visually interesting. It's creepy to think about Sy's actions, but it's even creepier thinking that back when film was developed constantly, and places like Walgreens and Wal-Mart's One Hour Photo booths used to be filled with customers, how easy it was to obtain one person's pictures. It's amazing to think just five or six years ago we used to be protective with our pictures, count on them being done in one hour, and then only be shown to a certain number of people. When now, we upload pictures to our computers and then make them so the whole world can see. My, how times have changed.Starring Robin Williams, Michael Vartan, Connie Nielsen, Dylan Smith, Gary Cole, and Eriq La Salle. Directed by Mark Romanek. "},{"Title":"Good film, but doesn't live up to the expectations the first hour builds within you","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams is known for his comedy roles. He is a legendary funny guy, but where he really shines is his serious roles. He proves this in One Hour Photo, a dark and suspenseful thriller about Sy, an employee of a one hour photo lab at a local supermarket, who becomes obsessed with a seemingly idyllic suburban family. Sy's obsession grows to disturbing lengths as he starts to uncover secrets about this family and begins to feel an obligation to protect them, as well as himself. This is a disturbing film that is paced wonderfully and shot with a calm and non-intrusive specialty that captures the films growing suspense excellently.The best thing about this film is its unique pacing and very specific mood that stays consistent throughout the entire film. This film is very brooding and its plot develops very slow, establishing the troubled character of Sy very well and in some of the creepiest and most unexpected ways possible. This film has a lot of tension that builds at a pace much more intelligent than the average thriller. The entire setup is very captivating and the director of this film deserves a lot of kudos for creating a story and a protagonist that are actually engaging and really are thrilling.Sadly where this film falls short is its climax. So much tension is built and the levels of suspense rise to such great heights that it really leads you to expect a lot out of this films climax and conclusion. Unfortunately it doesn't quite get to where you really want it to be, and the way everything pans out is pretty disappointing. The climax and what happens after it isn't bad, and it would have been OK with a film that hadn't set itself up as well. It would have fit right in with the same mediocrity as before. But One Hour Photo builds itself up from the ground so well that when it reaches its peak it is fairly anti-climactic and really leaves you wanting more. All the film needed was a little more thought to go into the conclusion of this film and it would have been truly incredible, but it just lacks that last little push into excellency, thus I can only credit this film as being good.But that doesn't change the fact that Robin Williams is just incredible. This is one of his finest and creepiest performances ever. Sy is such a disturbed man, and Williams makes you believe every last bit of him. The character is extremely well written and darkly constructed to carry the tone of this film. And while Williams is the main focus of the film, the supporting cast does a great job as well. The family Sy stalks is a very believable family, other than a few small bumps along the way. There are various small roles that pop up throughout the film, and none of them seem to drag down the film as they all center around Sy and drive his character's motivations and emotions, which are the heart and soul of this film.One Hour Photo isn't quite a great film, but it is very good. There are some great things about it, but it falls short in its conclusion that it almost ends up being more disappointing than anything else. But it goes to show how fantastic the setup of the film is when I am this disappointed by a conclusion that doesn't deliver what I wanted it to. Robin Williams is the shining pilot of the film who makes it a truly disturbing and captivating experience. I would recommend this film, if only to see Williams incredible performance. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Proves Himself in, One Hour Photo","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It would be a short stretch to imagine Robin Williams becoming tied to a similar fate as his mentor, Jonathan Winters. Becoming increasingly absorbed into the complexity of his own comic genius and less and less able to return from the various personalities he could assume (sometimes vicariously) his fans could only wonder if they might concern themselves with his mental health one day. The reassurance this might not be in the offing, however, is somewhat evidenced in his role of Seymour Parrish, found in the remarkable film, One Hour Photo. For, unlike Mr. Winters, herein we see Robin Williams demonstrate a dramatic genius in parallel with that of the comedic, and a possible saving grace of sensible balance. As a fan of both, this reviewer certainly hopes so. Obsession represents itself always as bizarre; we are even advised to grave concerns when we see almost any manifestation of it for it is indeed tied to many sinister and criminal acts. Seldom do we ever get a chance to look closer, to see the more forgivable of its possible origins. One Hour Photo superbly takes advantage of this...in many ways, especially as its dramatic core builds to crescendo and to dramatic denouement, again, superbly. More and more we wonder if this was designed around the role expressly meant for Mr. Williams to play, a real feather in the cap of casting excellence. Lovely Connie Nielson performs beautifully as Nina Yorkin, a wife and mother just finding out why her self-indulgent husband is becoming more and more neglectful. The second woman, (Erin Daniels) coming to the same photo mat for her picture development is the one and only stretch the script makes but one allowable. The viewer is not effected by any unrealistic sense of contrivance. Viewers will presume the worst, prepare for the worst, while the unexpected ending becomes the most remarkable aspect of all. And the most heartfelt. All in all, an incredible movie that I feel certain will justify viewers' attention...and then some.Bravo for the writer/director, Mr. Mark Romanek and his casting staff.JCH "},{"Title":"Although Robin Williams' Greatest Performance. . .","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film could have been flawlessly great! One totally forgets that Sy Parrish is Robin Williams! Great Acting here!As Sy Parrish, Williams is totally believable, as he goes through a totally locked on (psycho) obsession with the Yorkins.There is a struggle; however, in the story that is strange? His reaction to what he finds out is totally off the wall. We don't know why he does the things he does? There is no reason for his strange behavior. Some brief flashbacks would have been the answer to this, not many--just a few, would have given this movie an added touch of fear and depth. The audience is left to decide this.I do; however, believe Robin Williams has found his best place in films, that of being the scary guy.I really hope you will do more worthwhile roles like this one! "},{"Title":"Utterly event-less, but apart from that, not bad","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This may make you think twice about having the local place process your photos. This was neither something I had huge expectations for nor figured would turn out a major let-down. Just know that what I write in this review is not out of bitterness. With that said, this isn't a downright poor film. The big complaint I have about it is that, for the entire duration, from beginning to end... *nothing*, and I am not using hyperbole, not anything whatsoever, actually happens. The plot is fine, and save for one line obviously done to deliver exposition early on(apart from which, there are only a few problems with the dialog), it's told decently. The pacing is OK. Acting is good, though I've seen both Vartan and Williams do better elsewhere. The latter's character is fairly well-written, if there could have been considerably more on-screen development(and he's the one who was most fleshed out). I don't know exactly what the ending is supposed to be. Cinematography and editing are well-done. Romanek has evidently barely directed movies apart from this. I won't go out of my way to watch his other work, but I won't actively avoid it, either. I'm not making it my life's mission to view this again, but I won't have a problem with doing so. There is a little blood, some disturbing material, some graphic sexuality/nudity and the language isn't exactly restrained(I'm referring more to how strong it can be than its quantity). I recommend this to fans of Mark Romanek, thrillers and/or the other people who worked on this. 7/10 "},{"Title":"not quite  fully developed","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this is a foray into dark territory for Robin Williams.he plays a very disturbed and sick individual,who ends up stalking a family.this movie has potential written all over it.psycho stalks family and incorporates himself into their lives.so far,so good.now,enter Robin Williams as the psycho,something new for him.Does Williams live up to the challenge?yes not only does he bring the disturbed man to life,he also brings some sympathy to the character.now,the character is certainly menacing,but the writing restrains the character.he could have really let loose and been even more psychotic than he is.the character is very low key and understated,not necessarily a bad thing,but in this case,i think they could have done more.while Williams acquits himself quite well with the material at hand,i thought the inclusion of Connie Nielson as the mother of the family being stalked was a master stroke.now,i'm not gonna say this was a bad movie,because it certainly isn't.i just think the main character and the story could have been more developed.my vote for one Hour Photo is 6/10 "}{"Title":"Williams is Chillingly Different!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams is better known for his comedy than his dramatic skills but he sure proves his acting range can stretch from doing silly comedies to doing thrillers. His character, Sy Parrish, is a disturbed man. He's lonely in the first place. He really has nobody but becomes fixated on this family while working at a one hour photo booth. Robin Williams can make you feel sorry and empathy for this man who is obviously desperate for a family of his own or something to connect with in life. Sy gets desperate and does things aren't so forgivable or forgettable. His sad life is brought brilliantly to the screen by Robin Williams who is almost unrecognizable in this role. He really can act beyond the silliness and develop his Juillard talents beyond comedies. "},{"Title":"Developing an obsession","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mark Romanek's debut film, One Hour Photo, is a gutsy and gripping psychological thriller. The narrative follows a Photographic Lab Technician, Seymour (Sy) Parrish played by Robin Williams, who is a lonely, sad, creepy character living his life through other peoples photographs. He develops a dangerous obsession with a particular young family whose photographs he has processed over the years. Through his work he accidentally uncovers a less than ideal family situation, which he seeks to rectify.This film takes place in flashback. Voiceovers are used to drive the narrative and to heighten suspense by unnerving the audience. These are often Sy's voice-overs relating his personal knowledge on photography and applying his photographic insight to the narrative. For example in one scene Sy explains that a huntsman once noted that all the kills he had made on a particular day were hurried shots taken without deliberate aim, defining this way of hunting to the photographic term snapshot. This voice-over reinforces the unhealthy relationship Sy has with photography by making the connection between photography and hunting.The protagonist of the film One Hour Photo Sy Parrish is reminiscent of Norman Bates the protagonist of Alfred Hitchcock's 1960's film Psycho. Both protagonists appear innocently genuine, however they both have unhealthy obsessions. Norman Bates with his mother and Sy with the Yorkin family.The theme of One Hour Photo is voyeurism with Sy Parrish's invasion of people's privacy through viewing their photographs.Another form of visual art that is used to build up suspense in One Hour Photo is the television. An example of this is when Sy is watching an episode of The Simpsons where Homer tells Bart that the person who wants to harm him is probably the person he least expects. This gives the audience an insight into Sy's obsessive and potentially dangerous personality. Another example is when Sy is watching the film The Day the Earth Stood Still, the voice that can be heard is of an alien who explains to the people of the Earth that if they extend their violence to the outside world there will be consequences. This is an effective forecasting devise which gives the audience further insight into Sy Parrish's avenging character.The re-occurring motif throughout the film is photography. The shot composition is carefully chosen by Jeff Cronenweth to symbolise photographs. A good example of this is at the end of the film Sy is sitting in a room seen through a window, the image bordered by the window frame taking the appearance of a photograph. Another scene that visually reinforces the connection between photography and the theme of this film, is where Sy is looking down at a blank sheet of photographic paper, which in my opinion symbolises the emptiness of his life.In creating the creepy character of Sy Parish Robin Williams has once again truly cements his outstanding acting ability.One Hour Photo is a promising debut from Mark Romanek and I look forward to his future projects.7/10 "},{"Title":"Precise and ordered production design, measured performances","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Relief at Robin Williams in a role that almost wholly omits the saccharine sentimentality that has become his trademark is superseded by a sense of awe at the production design and direction of this low-key thriller. Both are imbued with a sense of uber-Virgoan precision and orderliness that effectively reinforces the sense of emptiness in the life of the Yorkin couple, with their magazine-perfect home and ideal child, of which Si Parish (whose life is more obviously 'empty') so aspires to be a part. Combined with measured and natural performances, these assets more than compensate for any ambiguity of message or sense of narrative anti-climax. "},{"Title":"Makes the Every Day Environment Quite Threatening","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" My teen age son was suspicious about going to see some weird indie sh*t? but the theater was packed for the One-Hour Photo matinée. However, it was completely inappropriate that one mother brought pre-teen kids -- the R rating is serious -- and I said so loud enough for her to hear unfortunately.I loved the movie from the opening credits. The use of tense, mood-building electronica music (by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek -- though I'm not sure they wrote the bulk of the pieces we hear) and mise en scene showed that writer/director Mark Romanek has watched a lot of Hitchcock and has figured out how to update his lessons.Like Hitchcock, he picks an innocuous, should-be-safe environment -- a suburban K-Mart type store (similar to but way more sterile than the one in The Good Girl. He tells us right away that something disturbing has happened, so the rest of the movie is a flashback, establishing the uneasiness right away and doesn't let it up for a minute.A particular strength is how key plot elements are shown to us not directly but by characters' reactions to them, and that the implied violence is understood in our heads more than it's shown on the screens.We've seen all the actors elsewhere, to lull our comfort level with them, even the bit players are character actors from TV (such as E.R. and Alias).And of course we've seen plenty of Robin Williams. But even as a villain earlier this year in Insomnia (U.S.) he wasn't as chilling as this. When he chuckles dryly that a customer shouldn't switch to a digital camera Because then I'll be out of a job. you could feel the entire audience mentally meaning to immediately go out to buy one.While the story-telling is mostly straight-forward from that flashback, it reminded me a lot of Memento, from the use of the power of visual images in photographs to the total control the director has over the spooky and suspenseful environment. And us.What's around us every day can be very scary. (originally written 9/2/2002) "},{"Title":"Even photo lab workers have problems.","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The basic premesis of one hour photo is good. A lonely man working in the photo processing department of a local mall is convinced a regular family to the store is perfect. Robin Williams is offered a different role in this and still excels in his performance.A lonely abused photo lab worker develops photos for a young suburban family. He starts to convince himself they are perfect setting up a series of stalking, intruding, stealing and assault while losing his sensible mind all for this.I recommend this movie for the performances and storyline. Although it won't keep you on the edge of your seat and you won't go messing your pants from absolute terror. It will turn a boring day meaningful for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"The ultimate creep me out film","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had an inkling that Robin Williams could do this sort of thing, but how well he did it! This is the movie that, for the rest of my life, I will never be able to watch again. Growing up with Robin (I was 7 or 8 when Mork & Mindy first aired), I knew the funny, tender, pleasant, hysterically hilarious sides of one of my Hollywood faves quite well. I was completely unprepared for the darker side of him. It blindsided me, yet held me captive, until the terrifying conclusion.On a technical note, the director chose to use a weird kind of filter that, combined with Robin's blond do for this film, created an eerie tone to the film that wouldn't have been present with out it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Effective and extremely good acting!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of this years great surprises was 'One Hour Photo'. A combination of beautiful acting by every single person to detail the disturbing story of a guy who processes photographic images for a family. You are told through the eyes of Sy, who takes extra caution in developing pictures for a family he has admired for years, the 'Yorkins'.A disturbing story that trancends into a moral plot within the final stages. The directing was very very impressive and the plot change was very good, but it did not seem dramatic enough to intitle it as a thriller. Everyone at first has a notion of a troubled guy who wants to harm the family but as it progresses you see a totally different side to 'Photo Guy' Sy.This movie is definitely worth a viewing, Robin Williams acting is incredible with the moral story within being an important lesson that we all usually, at some point in our lives take for granted.7/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing ending","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was really excited to see this movie and glad I had finally got to rent it.  So I sat down and watched it all by myself in my room and I pretty much loved it until the end.  I found it very disappointing and lacking of...anything really.  I feel that nothing really happened and they could have added more to it.  Although all in all, the movie itself (aside from the ending) was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Raging Robin","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I have to say that this movie was exceptional. Not only the visual aspect (not that it could hold a light to LOTR), but the acting was very intensive. The boy who played Jake Yorkin (the son) was...believable, which might sound sarcastic, but in reality he did well compared to all the untalented little stars and starlets out there. I haven't seen much of Michael Vartan, but I had no qualms about his performance here. He conveyed sleazy cheating husband who pretends to care about his wife and family very well in this movie. We get to Connie Nielson at first I didn't know it was her! Perhaps it was the odd and modern hair styles that I'm not used to seeing her with. She pulled them off nonetheless. She has always been okay whenever I've seen her work, nothing overly impressive (not that I could do much better), but always interesting. Same applies here. Now we get to the GEM! Now, Robin Williams has always in my opinion, been an exquisite actor. We saw early on that we was funny...than hilarious. After time he became one of the funniest men in existence, being able to pour out comedy as a fountain does water. Moreover, it's often improvised. We saw in a few movies that he was also able to play a dramatic part, not only the goof ball funnies. Here he takes the cake...then eats it...after photographing it and placing stills on his wall to remind him of the cake he enjoyed. I've seen first hand when an actor becomes a part. Robin has convinced me that he has talent beyond many of today's stars...and beyond comedy. He became Sy with such commitment, that it was frightening. There was no doubt that Robin was a good actor, but with this porteyal, we see that his is one of a kind. Not everyone could pull off the subtleties that he does, from the stillness and quietness, to the enraged and semi-focused. Whoever said it wasn't kidding an excellent character study! Congrats! "},{"Title":"Taut thriller","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the last couple of years Robin Williams has re-invented himself &#150; Goodbye Patch Adams, hello Norman Bates. The frenetic comedian seems to have shifted 180 degrees away from the heroic nice-guy roles he became mired in and is now determined to scare us, or at least make us uncomfortable. In Death to Smoochy he was a foul mouthed lunatic bent on revenge. After that he played Walter Finch, a brutal killer and blackmailer in Insomnia. One Hour Photo sees Williams in his most introspective role yet, an obsessed photo-mart clerk on the verge of madness. Who knew Mork could be this creepy? As Sy Parrish, Williams lets go of his usual arsenal of acting tricks, and develops a powerful performance by internalizing the character's pain. Parrish is very still, like a pot of cold water on the heat waiting to boil. Dressed head to toe in beige &#150; even his hair is blonde &#150; Parrish's world is stark, boring. He knows he has no life, and has invented an intense imaginary relationship to the Yorkin family, based on the photos of theirs he develops. When he discovers that Mr. Yorkin is cheating on his wife, he springs into action. One Hour Photo is a taut thriller that will take you down unexpected paths.     "}{"Title":"The dark side of Mrs Doubtfire","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour PhotoSeymour (call me Cy) Parish, single, middle aged and rather dapper, manages the PhotoLab service in a Shopping Mall somewhere in suburban America. He enjoys his work. He has no family and lives alone in an apartment on the other side of town. Family life is something which seems to have passed him by much to his great disappointment. He manages however to derive a certain surrogate sense of kinship with his customers through the family snapshots they leave in his care. His craving for intimacy carries him, little by little, into some uncomfortable behavioural territory. We already know from the montage of photos which lines an entire wall of his apartment that he long ago crossed the line between platonic interest and obsessive longing. His sad fantasies of a benign Uncle Cy warmly ensconced in the bosom of his chosen family-of-the-month (year?) tell us that this story is certain to end in tears. One day in the lab he is shocked to discover photo evidence of an assignation between two of his customers. One of them is a married man, a husband, a father, a man recklessly putting at risk the security of his marriage and the integrity of his family for the sake of a cheap sexual fling. Cy is mad. As always it's the children who are the first victims of parents who put their base sexual desires ahead of their responsibilities as carers. Cy ought to know. He decides to punish the offenders.This movie is no match for Sidney Lumet's bleakly masterful The Pawnbroker (1964) but I found myself frequently drawing comparisons. The main characters in both are deeply scarred by a painful past but that's where the resemblance ends. Or is it?  Rod Steiger's Sol Nazerman is tormented by recurring flashbacks of Nazi Germany; Robin Williams' Cy Parish has effectively excised memories of his abusive childhood and is living in a world decorated by smiling snapshots where everyone, including himself, is happily suspended in aspic. Nazerman is emotionally anaesthetised to the point where he feels neither pain nor compassion while Parish engages amicably with the people in his world if not the world itself. The brutal backdrop of Nazerman's impoverished New York neighbourhood serves as a reminder that he has fled one hellish reality only to arrive in another. Parish's world is a still-life Twilight Zone where fantasy is slowly getting the better of reality - or is it the other way around?  In the time honoured Hollywood tradition, both men find redemption of sorts in a messy catharsis.Here at last is a film where Robin Williams is relieved of all comedic duties. His demonstrated ability to deliver an emotionally powerful performance without uttering a single word seems to be lost on Director Mark Romanek. What a waste. Parish finally confronts/confesses to the grim realities of his ruined childhood in a scene I found clumsy and unnecessary - screenplay comes also courtesy of Romanek. Visually, he could have made far better use of the Shopping Mall as a cavernous, sterile, alienating and vaguely sinister reflection of Parish's own empty life. This one alas, will go to the great graveyard of might-have-beens. But it's a workmanlike film which, as an average psychodrama is otherwise right on the money. Perfect for a rainy Saturday Night. Why not get out The Pawnbroker as well?  "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought that Robin Williams could be so....so evil. WOW. That is the one word to explain this wicked awesome movie. Williams plays a photo guy who is stalking a family, and the way he stalks them is cool as hell. Must see.Rating Eight Thumbs Up "},{"Title":"Slow moving,but an original idea that you will remember.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film because it was not overly violent nor gross,  as so many films are.  And it was an interesting study of an original idea. It portrayed a lonely, old man who lived through other's lives because he had no life of his own.   I recommend it and give it 7 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"One of 2002's most overlooked films.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around to renting this DVD. It was worth the wait. The film at first seems to be a Psycho remake, but Robin Williams and the director Mark Romanek have crafted a truly beautiful parable of our isolated modern age. Sy (Seymour- SEE MORE?) is the anti-hero in this film. Perhaps hero is too strong a term, but in a world of directionless yuppie drones who choose to ignore life, he becomes a sort of existential man of action. Is he creepy and disturbed? Yes. But so are all of the blandly normal characters in the film. ( The young son is an exception to this rule). Most of the TV clips you may have seen really don't reveal the depth of characterization Williiams and Romanek give to Sy. In less capable hands this could have been a horrible film, but all of the characters seem all too human, and well drawn. As a former One Hour Photo employee myself, I can say that they got the working environment 100% on target. There is some very subtle and clever cinematography. Watch for how the tone of color changes to set the mood, to warm yellows when Sy interacts with people, and cold blue-white when he is alone. Even though this is a cinema buff's film, the plot turns and suspense are top notch and will keep you watching until the end; it will also keep you thinking for a good while afterwards.   "},{"Title":"Effectively creepy","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams gives a memorable performance here, but I think the real star of the movie is director Mark Romanek.  Well known for his visually inventive -and at times very disturbing- music videos, this is a very impressive feature debut.  Although the ending is a bit of a disappointment, the overall impact of the film more than makes up for it.  Consider Romanek a director to watch. "},{"Title":"From a photo lab employee...","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I work in a one hour photo lab and thought this movie was tantalizing! This was a thriller. I thought at first I could relate to Sy as I also see little kids grow through the years, but then I realized, I didn't want that connection any longer. My roommate looked me straight in to my eyes and said, if you EVER bring home pictures of people I don't know, you are out of here! This movie is good for the fact that it is so real. It isn't one of those movies you would say aw, that would never happen in real life. THIS ONE IS. Robin Williams was Outstanding! Great choice of character and wonderful producing. Many think it is slow paced, it is if you don't know the details of working in a photo lab, if you do, you understand much better. I would recommend it to all.  "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is, I believe, an underrated film. Robin Williams gives a stellar performance as an unlikely stalker. He works in a photo processing lab and has developed family photos for some families for several years. He lives alone and has a lonely existence. One of the families that he's served all these years seems so happy and close. He finds that he longs to be part of this seemingly idyllic family and he adopts them in his fantasies. He knows a lot about them, where they've been for vacations, who had piano recitals, etc., simply from their photographs. When he discovers that his family has a dark secret, he goes bonkers. There's no real action, per se, but a decent amount of suspense towards the end, which contains a bit of a surprise. All in all, this is a very well-scripted and executed film. I think it's well worth a rent! "},{"Title":"Slowest 95 minutes yet!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There was something I can't identify that I just didn't buy about this movie, and it made the slow pacing seem just plain tedious. And I didn't think the monochromatic visual themes worked at all here -- they showed how dull and colorless Sy's life was ... but that's it.  I hoped the color scheme might develop as his madness overwhelmed him ... but no.  Connie Nielsen was good, as usual, and the kid playing, well, the kid, was very good.  But the deeper themes didn't achieve Truth for me.  "},{"Title":"Ultimately dissapointing","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing new here unfortunately. The Hidden Suburban Terror genre has been flogged to death lately and although this film has it's moments it is lacking in too many ways. The direction and cinematography are far, far, far too repetitive to have any real impact on the viewer after the first 5 minutes. The music is intrusive and often annoying. The total lack of a story would be forgivable if the film had some mood or suspense to it but it doesn't. You know 99% of the story after only 2 short scenes and it's not worth the wait for the last 1%. A shame as Williams was pretty good and the content could have been done better in more skilled hands. "},{"Title":"High Quality Photos","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have been a Robin Williams fan since his performance in Mrs. Doubtfire. After that, I have cherished films like Hook, Jumanji, and Patch Adams. There's no denying that Robin Williams is an incredible actor, and he brought life to One Hour Photo.One Hour Photo had a decent story about an old man obsessed with a family. He knows everything about them because of the pictures they bring in. It is an interesting story. Nothing that can win it an oscar for best picture of the year, but it's good nonetheless.Robin Williams shone through in this movie. A film critic (I forgot who) called this movie Robin Williams' finest hour. This may be true. Robin Williams didn't need to prove to us that he is a great actor, but he proved it to us anyway. Even though he was the antagonist, you feel some sort of pity for him, and even want him to succeed. The movie was actually really good, overall. It's not an epic movie, and it doesn't meet the overall greatness of Silence of the Lambs, but it's worth spending 8 dollars to sit down and watch. It's a very entertaining movie, so I give it an 8/10.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie! Just loved it. If you think the Robin Williams is a great comedian - wait till you see this... if he keeps this way he will certainly win an Oscar.This movie really makes you think, and you will keep on thinking long after you return the DVD back to the store. "},{"Title":"Excellent psychological thriller","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo highlights Robin Williams in what is certainly one of the most demanding and chilling roles of his career, and he delivers on every level.  Williams plays Seymour, a lonley film developer at a convenience store one hour photo center, who develops a truly unique relationship with some of his customers.  In an effort to escape the void in his life, Seymour adopts these individuals and engrosses himself in their life through the pictures they bring in.  Williams does an outstanding job in this role by playing a character that you can certainly sympathize with to a point, but whose obsession takes him to edges of sanity and beyond.This is the first film I have seen by director Mark Romanek, however he creates the perfect atmosphere through the eerie lighting in Seymour's home, and the occasional peek into his demented thoughts.  Needless to say I will certainly be looking forward to Romanek's next film.  To avoid giving away too much of the film, I will not disclose any details about the climax, or the surprise ending; however I tell you that this movie will not leave you disappointed "},{"Title":"Robin gives a sympathetic & brilliant performance","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sy is one of Robin William's best performances. He keeps the viewer gripped throughout with his sympathetic portrayal of a lonely man driven to obsessive acts. The makeup job was well done. I enjoyed his voiceovers which make you think about photography in a whole new way. There are humorous moments hat don't detract from the sinister story. The filming is impressive and there are several surprises. The music went well with the images. This is Robin's film but there was good support from the other actors. A brilliant new feature. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Modern Mall Culture","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Parrish character and his predicament are more of a social problem than many can imagine, though not necessarily for a capacity for violence. The mature Parrish might have continued to make a career out of a dead end service job compensating for boredom with a vivid but harmless, secret fantasy life. An ogre of an upstart 30 year old boss however chose to drive Parrish out.Fortunately many of the Parrishes out there choose legal recourse ie to sue their employers for age discrimination as opposed to the rather bizarre course of action Parrish chose.Who says litigation doesn't serve the public weal; court at least channels pent up vitriol into non violent directions. "},{"Title":"I hate it when I get suckered into a movie","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was on vacation when this movie came out and went to a lot of trouble to find a movie theater to see it -- all because of the rave reviews I read by professional critics.  I left thinking I must have watched a different movie.It was not scary, creepy, or interesting.  There was not one character I found appealing in this movie (well, I did like the assistant at the photo mart but that doesn't count).  I like to identify with at least one person in a movie, even if it's the bad guy, and nothing helped me do that in this movie.  Every character was one-dimensional, which may have been what the director was going for, but it certainly didn't work for me.  There were way too many shots of Robin Williams' character looking blankly into space. And who was supposed to have been in the room and taken the pictures of the husband anyway?If you want to see Robin Williams in a REALLY good movie, go see Insomnia. This one missed the mark. "},{"Title":"Abso-horrible-lutely terrible...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes folks, I actually inserted an entire word, horrible, into another word, absolutely.  This movie is just that bad.  No single english word can fully contain the posi-hateful-tively unredeemable quality of this movie. There, I just did it again.  You see?!The only aspect of this movie that deserves any credit is Robin William's acting...by far one of his best movies to date in terms of acting. However, aside from that...this movie is just plain hurtful.  I actually felt like the producers of the movie were spitting in my eye as I watched the film...making a complete mockery of the film industry in the process. This is just a plain bad movie...easily takes the #3 spot on my list.Do not watch this movie unless you are at gunpoint...and even then, remember that the human body can heal from a large amount of minor wounds!  Take the bullet in the arm!Atrociously horrendous. "},{"Title":"Worst movie EVER!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo was the worst movie we have ever seen. It was so stupid. Talk about PERVERT! The story line was terrible and it wasn't because we didn't understand, because we did!!!!! The only good part was when Robin Williams thought he was in the family, uncle Sye, and when he was holding up the red sweater at Christmas..oh man, that was halarious!! Some advice to the people who are considering seeing this movie, its NOT good. Don't waste your money on it, honestly..its horrible! 0) "},{"Title":"Thought provoking terror!!!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will eat away at you. You get wrapped up in the story. Great performances all around. Robin Williams gives a heart felt performance. It will make you think twice. Very disturbing ride through one man's obsession. "},{"Title":"Williams is amazing","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the Robin Williams thriller ONE-HOUR PHOTO when it first opened and was playing at only a few theatres.  It has since opened wide and you shouldn't have any trouble finding it.  It is well worth the trip. Although the screenplay and film are flawed Williams performance is not. It is Williams' best work since GOOD WILL HUNTING.  Along with INSOMNIA earlier this year he seems to becoming quite adept at playing the deranged.Have you ever thought about the guy behind the photo counter?  The one who takes your weekend film and turns it into snapshots? Did you ever consider who might be looking at those naked shots of your wife or girlfriend, you know what I mean, those last two shots you snapped of her&#133;just to finish off the roll for developing? Well, after seeing ONE-HOUR PHOTO you'll never look at Cy the Photo Guy quite the same way again.The performances in ONE-HOUR PHOTO from Williams on down are flawless.  The film however is too short, a brisk ninety minutes or so. Too little screen time for a story that needed so much more development.  "},{"Title":"Does for photos what Jaws did for water","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was stunning. I will never look at photos the same way again. Robin Williams gives a performance of such nuance, it will go down in history as one of best performances of all time. The whole movie I didn't know whether he should get caught, or he should get away with everything. I recently saw Insomnia and thought it was the best Williams I had every seen or ever will see. I was very very wrong. I don't suspect the film will win Best Picture, because the Academy doesn't go for films like this. However, it better win Best Actor, or I will loose all respect for the Oscars. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Williams is awesome!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Say bye to Patch Adams!!!!  Thank goodness!!!  Robin Williams gives an Oscar worthy performance that is a polar opposite to his pre-2002, mawkish performances.  This tense thriller slowly builds to a surprising climax and provides several messages along the way. "},{"Title":"Great film - for some","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a movie that everyone will enjoy, but I think most people will like it if they don't have the wrong expectations.  This is not an ACTION film!!!!  There is very little 'action' in the literal sense and you should not go into the theatre expecting it, or you will be disappointed.  Many people complain that the film doesn't have as much action or violence as they expected, when the problem was that they were expecting any at all.  I would even go so far as to object to the 'thriller' label... much of the movie is not 'thrilling' but rather suspenseful and sad.There are 3 emotions on prominent display here, and Williams portrays them both very well loneliness, sadness and anger. Throughout the course of the movie we watch Sy progress through these three states, and it is such a natural progression that it alone is what makes the film stand out.  Williams does an EXCEPTIONAL job in this role, which is fortunate because he gets most of the screen time.  People who didn't like his performance I think misread the role.  He does not (nor is he supposed to) have a crazy serial killer personality.  He is a repressed man - that is the reason for his sometimes stifled actions and emotions. I could picture myself in his shoes easily, and I didn't find myself yelling 'No don't do that you idiot!' at the screen as I am often known to do.  Audience members are able to closely identify with his emotions and that is what creates the suspense - because you know what you might think of doing if you were him - and these possibilities are unpleasant.  When you see Sy begin to act these things out it is really uncomfortable.A few more brief things I should mention..  the ending is NOT anti-climatic, when you consider the rest of the film and the character. The photography is quite good (no pun intended), and the music fits very well (sorry, didn't see the similarity to American Beauty...).  As long as you dont have a short attention span and are not expecting the wrong things I think you will greatly enjoy this film.   I give it a strong recommendation.  Grade A "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT performances!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is definitely a role played well by Robin Williams.  The movie itself really wasn't as creepy as I thought it was going to be.  You end up feeling sympathetic towards Sy, rather than thinking he deserves any charges that may be brought against him.I'd go see it again just because it's visually beautiful and Robin Williams' portrayal is just SUPERB! "},{"Title":"Unusual Disturbing Psychological Drama","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo is suspense-filled and psychologically twisted, although a bit slow.  It is also an unusual look at obsession... not typical by Hollywood standards.   Robin Williams is notable for his restraint in this film and has not gotten enough credit from those who can't accept him as anything but a manic comedian.Also notable, the director shows his music video background with sophisticated production design.  Pay attention to the shelves in the store, they are a design feat. I recommend this movie to people who would like to see an unusual psychological drama with the patience for a slower pace.  "},{"Title":"Think about where you develop your pictures...","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie proved to be a vision for the eyes. It is very visual in how colors represent ideas. Robin Williams also was wonderful. When you watch this movie, you forget it is Robin Williams... and that is proof of a great actor. I highly recommend this film. It is a great art flick with a really strong and interesting plot.  "},{"Title":"Excellent! Academy Award for Robin Williams!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you don´t like Robin Williams, forget it. Go and see this film. He(or what we associate with Robin Williams) disappears into the role of a sad and lonely Nobody and I think, this is Robin Williams at his best movie since years. You may be surprised to see him in such a dark film (it´s a very sad movie), but if you look more carefully at some other characters he played, you also will find lonely, isoated people who have one deep longing for  to give love and to receive love. Now we see a stalker, a voyeur who makes desperate efforts to get a little bit love and it ends with violence. Pefect performance, book and camera!  "},{"Title":"A Disturbing Masterpiece. The best Film since American Beauty","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  wow I loved this film. This is the best film of the year. Robin Williams deserves an oscar for best actor.He plays Sy the photo guy.He develops photos at SavMart.He is very obsessed with the Yorkins who have been his best customers. He even considers himself as uncle Sy. Behind his sad, lonely face is an obsessed man. He is obsessed and wants to fitt in. He has no family and lives alone.His wall is a huge collage of customer photos which he made copies of for himself. One day he develops photos that disturb him.He sees that Will Yorkin is cheating on his wife with another lady.This is a very haunting, disturbing film. The score in the first half of the film along with William`s narraration is very reminiscent even maybe the same score from American Beauty and the last half hour the score is the same as Requiem for a Dream. Robin Williams no doubt shood win best actor oscar, this is his geratest performance to date.He reminded me of Anthony Perkins in Psycho because he seems like a nice lonely guy but looks can be deceiving. 4 stars out of 4 a must see. This is a very haunting and disturbing film.The best film since American Beauty.Robin William`s best performance to date "},{"Title":"I was here, I existed and someone cared about me enough to take my picture.","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is written and directed by Mark Romanek. It stars Robin Williams, Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, Dylan Smith, Gary Cole and Eriq La Salle. Music is scored by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek and cinematography by Jeff Cronenweth.Sy Parrish (Williams) is a loner photo technician at SavMart's one hour photo shop who becomes obsessed with a family whose photographs he develops....No one takes a photograph of something they want to forget.2002 was a stellar year for Robin Williams, it saw him give two dramatically potent performances that dampen down the bile spewed up by those who haven't been able to forgive him his comedy excesses. Insomnia has (rightly) found a more appreciative audience since 2002 because of the rise of its director, one Christopher Nolan. One Hour Photo, though, still seems to be striving for recognition for its qualities, in fact, for its understated qualities.It's evident now that many have gone into the film expecting some psycho stalker movie, and subsequently have been disappointed to find One Hour Photo is nothing of the sort. What unfolds is a sedately paced story of a fractured mind, of a loner who is so detached from society he imagines himself being part of a family, by way of his job, that he thinks is perfect. When the family of his selection turns out to not be a bastion of Americana, the little thread in his head clinging to sanity finally breaks, and then......Here's the problem. This is no slasher, people need to understand that mental illness or isolation from society does not mean psycho death killer, and thus Romanek's film becomes an observational character study of someone detached from realism. Creepiness permeates the picture, big time, but you shouldn't be putting this in the horror genre. Romanek always holds the upper hand, structured as it is, we the audience find ourselves holding on to see just how far Sy Parrish went with his pursuit of family harmony? With that comes the question of if the finale delivers substance? Well that depends on if you want red blood histrionics or brainy grey area.There were cuts and studio interference, and in the finale an explanation for Parrish's mental issues reeks of a writer being handed a solution by the studio paying his bills. Yet this is mature pot-boiling stuff, a film that dares to simmer and not let the pot spill over for multiplex appeasement. While Williams is nothing short of terrific, an edgy and understated performance that only makes us lament that he didn't do more of these portrayals at his peak. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A fascinating exploration of loneliness to insanity","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is one of the creepiest psycho-thrillers of the last few years, because of the way it gets under our skin, and almost turns us into a voyeur, like the central character Sy Parrish (Robin Williams in one of his finest film roles to date).Sy works at SavMart as a photo lab technician. We've all met these people behind a counter where we drop off film rolls to be developed. But I'd never really given much thought to the development process. One Hour Photo actually shows us how rolls of film are slowly developed into the finished product of a collection of photographs.If there is one thing that's important to Sy it's his customers. They entrust their rolls to him, he guards them copiously, and painstakingly crafts them as if they were works of art. But of all Sy's customers, the Yorkins are the most important to him. Will Yorkin, his wife Nina and their son Jake. Sy has been developing their pictures for seven years now. And he takes an active interest in their welfare.The Yorkin family life depicted in the photos is happy and eventful. They have a beautiful house. They are loving. They share everything. They are the happiest, most content family who ever lived. In print. But in reality, it is a very different story. Nina is a good parent to Jake, but Will is much more neglectful. And he doesn't show much affection to Nina either. Because he's secretly having an affair.Sy is blissfully unaware of this. Because he prefers to live within the fantasy of his photos. Not only does he develop the Yorkins pictures, he makes extra copies for himself. And places them on a wall in his drab apartment as a bizarre sort of shrine to the Yorkin family. They represent everything missing from Sy's life. Although Sy is a seemingly unassuming man who blends in with the crowd, he is a painfully lonely soul. He has no family. No friends. No joy. No life.Robin Williams gives a powerhouse performance. playing a man forced to live with his own loneliness. Mark Romanek's direction is top notch and lends the film a sharp edge. The cinematography is gorgeous and surrealistic. There doesn't seem to be a frame wasted. And most importantly, the hues of browns and gold almost make some of the shots actually seem like real captured images. It only strengthens the point being put across how life can be captured in a photograph, and be made to seem more happier than it really is.Romanek keeps things moving at a brisk pace, giving us ample time to explore Sy's psyche while also furthering the plot. Williams gives a deeply affecting as well as moving performance of a tortured man and his inner demons. Scenes of Sy at SavMart drenched in dazzlingly white colours and neatly stacked shelves is Sy's personal heaven, and are then juxtaposed with Sy's miserable existence at home with drab colours and a lifeless atmosphere of melancholy that hangs over him.I think with One Hour Photo Robin Williams has finally put to rest some of his disastrous film choices of late. Here he is completely believable as not an evil man, just a lonely one pushed to the breaking point. His turns of character are always plausible because of the steady direction. From Sy's amusing dedication to his job, to being irked when people fail to show him the respect he feels he deserves, his anger at being fired, to his raging psychosis at the climax.There is always an ominous feeling hanging over the film. We know something bad is going to happen. But Romanek restrains himself and never goes for the easy payoff. He allows events to unfold at a leisurely pace, with a remaining residue of uncertainty forever lingering. Watch the scene when Sy has just been let go. As he's walking through the aisles, you'll notice the numbers that mark them off. And Sy's face gradually becoming more unrestrained with the passing of each number. His volatile nature is always there just waiting to explode. It is this type of subtlety that allows OHP to shrug off the others of its kind.Connie Nielson gives a good performance as Nina. She's most effective in her scenes with Sy and his clumsy attempts to make conversation with her. But this is Williams' show all the way. He is in command of every scene. Showing remarkable restraint for the most part, and when he does indulge his wild side, it is entirely in character. The funny man has changed his act.Romanek also provides some deeply creepy images. The shrine sticks firmly in my mind. As well as Sy's supremely eerie dream. Sy's voyeuristic impulses taking over when he discovers the Yorkin family life is less than perfect. There is so much communicated in a tiny shrug. Or a significant pause. Romanek knows the value of subtlety. And that is the mark of a good director. I look forward to his next film.I was a little surprised by the ending, because it wasn't quite what I was expecting. But it was still satisfying in an odd way. There are people who may feel disappointed. But I felt OHP ended with a bang.There are lots of nice touches throughout. Especially Sy's narration that easily allows us to sympathise with him and his situation. One Hour Photo is a marvellous story of one man's mental meltdown, and the tragedy is, how it largely goes unnoticed by the everyday world. "},{"Title":"A Picture's Worth A Thousand Hours in Therapy!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Meet Sy Parrish, kindly, mind-mannered. He works at the photo lab in the SavMart discount store. He takes great pride in his work and strives to develop the best picture possible. He was the kind of guy you could trust with your pictures...Or was he? He always treated the customers with great respect. One particular family he took a shine to was the Yorkins. Nina Yorkin and her 9-year-old son Jake came in to have their film developed quite often. Sy has been developing their film since Jake was a baby. Nina and Jake were real nice, but Nina's husband, Will Yorkin, was a selfish bum. When work was through for the day, Sy went home to his empty apartment, for you see Sy was friendly on the outside, but inside he was very lonely and depressed. His only hobby was photographs. What nobody knew was that whenever Sy developed the Yorkins' pictures, he'd always keep an extra set of prints for himself, and now one entire wall of his apartment was covered in the Yorkins' photographs right up to the day Jake was born. It's not just a hobby. It's obsession; The next day, Sy clashes with the photo lab technician because he felt he did a shoddy job repairing the equipment. The technician cursed him out then left and Sy stood, shouting at him. Later, Sy's boss, Bill Owens, chided him for it. Bill's a real jerk. After work, Sy drove by the Yorkins' house and imagined what it would be like to stroll around the interior. So he imagined himself touring the house, watching the ball game on their plasma screen, drinking their beer, and even having Jake call him Uncle Sy. But it was only a fantasy. Sy continued to act like he was part of the Yorkin family. He watched Jake's soccer game and ran into Nina at the mall and had lunch with her. It seemed the two of them had a lot in common. But it wasn't long before Bill Owens discovered what Sy was doing behind the scenes and there were hundreds of unaccounted for prints from the machines, so he abruptly fired Sy, who was simply devastated. He was allowed to finish out the week, then that was it; That night he was reviewing pictures dropped off by a Maya Burson. Suddenly he came across a photo of her making out with Will Yorkin! He was cheating on Nina! Sy was torn up inside. He felt as if it were he who was being cheated on. He then pulled the old switcheroo and hid the photo in the prints dropped off by Nina. He expected Nina to find the photo, and have a fight with Will and break up with him. Sy followed Nina home that night to make sure that happened. It didn't. Sy was disappointed. Nina had long suspected her husband of having an affair, and this picture was proof positive; Next, Sy stopped at the Owens' house and took a whole roll of film worth of pictures of Bill's daughter (one snapshot per second) to intimidate Bill, then to even further intimidate him, he dropped the photos off at SavMart. Bill angrily tried to bar him, but it did no good. Next, Sy follows Will and Maya to a fancy hotel.When the pictures are brought to Bill's attention by fellow photo lab employee, Yoshi Araki, Bill was more than intimidated he was livid. He called in the feds. Detectives Van Der Zee and Outerbridge were now on the scene. They put an ABP out on Sy, while the police who search his apartment find Sy's wall covered in photographs of the Yorkins, only on every single photograph, Will's face had been etched out; At the hotel, Sy disguises himself as the room service bellboy and breaks into Will and Maya's room. He then whips out a hunting knife he had stolen from SavMart and forced them to get into perverted sexual poses as he took their picture! After that, Sy went back to his room. Just then, the detectives were closing in on Sy, but Sy was sly! He made a break for it, leaving the knife and camera in the hotel. He ran out the parking garage, thinking he was in the clear--when suddenly he was ambushed by the police. Sy was incarcerated while his pictures were collected as evidence. Detective Van Der Zee wanted to know why Sy did everything he did, and well, Sy just innocently took pictures. Pictures tell more than words. Sy had considered himself a member of the Yorkin family, and what Will did drove him further over the edge. He tried to break up Will and Maya and bring him closer to Nina. It didn't quite work that way. I guess the lesson to be learned here from our story is use a digital camera, or else the guy who develops YOUR pictures may just take a shine to YOU.Well, One Hour Photo. It's a very good movie. It's very well done, it really makes you think. It's a good psychological thriller. It plays with your mind. Robin Williams was GREAT as Sy Parrish. You know, he played another character named Parrish in Jumanji Alan Parrish; Also here, Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, Dylan Smith, and Gary Cole as that lousy Bill Owens; SavMart very closely resembles Wal-Mart, and you'll notice the colors most used in this movie are white and blue. Almost everything is white and blue. I guess that's because those are the colors of Sy's uniform. Sy is supposed to be looked upon as evil, but he's actually a good guy. Will and Bill are the bad guys. That's what makes this movie so good you root for the bad guy. Anyway, if you haven't already seen it, check out One Hour Photo today! Mark Romanek and Robin Williams have definitely developed a classic here! See it today!!- "}{"Title":"Pretty believable","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie both in theaters and on DVD, and I found it to be very entertaining both times. Not only does Robin Williams do a wonderful job at portraying the lovable, yet psychotic Sy Parrish, but he also makes the story so eerily believable that it is scary. The way in which Sy stalks the family throughout the film is downright disturbing, and something that you wouldn't expect from the cheerful clerk at the beginning of the film. All in all, I found this movie very interesting and I enjoyed it very much. Even when you find out what type of a sick freak Sy really is at the end of the film, you still feel sorry for him. I strongly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good thriller, or a movie in which Robin Williams strays from his comedic style. 10/10 for me "},{"Title":"A Bit Too Creepy For A Second Viewing","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to imagine Robin Williams as a psychopath, until you see him play one and realize that Robin can pretty much play any part he puts his mind to. One Hour Photo is the story of Sy Parrish (Williams) who works as a photo developer at a local superstore. His isolated life and abusive past stimulate him into forming relationships with his customers through the photos he develops. One family in particular he favors, having developed their photos for several years and seeing all of their memorable moments (wedding, birth of their son, etc.). Williams begins a fantasy relationship with this family and imagines himself as Uncle Sy. The desperate desire for Sy to have a normal social environment with love and support is terrifically supported and conveyed through his deluded idea of what each photo represents. When Sy realizes that the perfect family in the photos is anything but, he goes further awry.Williams does such a good job and director Mark Romanek superbly unveils how ordinary-looking, everyday people in our lives could be otherwise and an unsuspecting threat. The film had such a creepy feel afterwards and felt possible too true, that I don't think I could muster a second viewing. They should make college psych. majors watch this one! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Over-hyped","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With all the good reviews I had seen (and the great score on imdb) I was really looking forward to this film.But what I actually got was an unbelievably weak plot where nothing rang true.  For example, the photos of a couple having an extra-marital affair - you've got to wonder who was taking these photos.  The strop the wife throws near the beginning at her husband also felt like it came from out of nowhere and seemed crass, at best.Robin Williams was fine in the lead role, but other than that I can't think of anything else positive to say about this film.  It never for a second became intriguing or even believable.  For a TV movie with average reviews this would have been fine.I'll give it 4/10, but that's based on Robin Williams' performance and the fact that I managed to remain awake throughout. "},{"Title":"Not up to scratch","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This psychological thriller could have been much better but it lacked a victim we could like and a bad guy we could hate. I guess the ordinariness was intentional but it bore no resemblance to the real world. There was no grime and the cops were kind and considerate. A threat squad? Give me a break! Then there was Robin Williams' performance. It was so cold and creepy I couldn't help but wonder if he had confused his character in Insomnia with this one. Worse was that this performance was just as wooden. But then, this production was wooden and bland as it plodded along its carefully measured path -- weird, bleeding eyeball scene excepted -- to its flat conclusion. As for the self-righteousness moralising? I just wanted to puke -- I wanted a thriller and got heavy-handed propaganda instead. In all, it was a very disappointing 96 minutes. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo is the best movie I have ever seen. There's no way to describe it--the only thing I can say is that it is the story I've been trying to write for the past two years...maybe not in storyline, but in general feel, photography, and dark, yet whimsically sarcastic and unknowingly-insane narration.The way that Sy narrates, in a way that he thinks he is normal and stable, is amazing--I love films that play on that (like A Clockwork Orange and Flowers for Algernon, although the latter is an innocent form of mental instability)But the way that Mark Romanek portrays the fine line between good and evil is what really makes the movie sing. Although Sy is the good guy in it all, he still holds an immensely creepy and Norman Bates-esque air about him and his actions. The concept of voyeurism and how far it can go is contrasted perfectly with the juxtaposed notion of being the protagonistic hero who does the right thing--but which one has a greater weight in the scheme of morality?god bless movies that have double meanings!And the photography is simply stunning in approach, as well--such as the slightly off centering of some scenes and the subtle yet noticeable change in camera color filters which correspond to the colors used in the color photography process.just see it, that's all...just go and rent it, buy it, whatever. "},{"Title":"Shocking and Freaky","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very freaky!! Robin Williams plays an excellent pyscho individual.  The moral of the story is that two wrongs do not make something right.  Recommend that you hide all cameras before sleeping ) "},{"Title":"Very good film!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersThe One Hour Photo is a unique film. I thought Robin Williams was going to be nut but he really wasn't and I felt sorry for his character.The film has excellent scenes and has great acting by the other cast members including Connie Nielson!I am glad Robin Williams played this role.I really liked the part when he gives the boy the action figure.If you like Williams check it out! "},{"Title":"A film worthy to be mentioned with Hitchcock's greatest","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film Hitchcock would have been proud to call his own.One user commented that this film was so-so due to the fact that the Yorkins weren't given much depth.  Well, this film isn't about the Yorkins. It's how one troubled man sees the Yorkins and how he sees himself with them.The scariest part about this movie, is that we all know someone like Sy. We've met someone at the photo lab or laundromat like Sy.  Hitchcock took ordinary people and the circumstances they live in and made them suspenseful.  Mark Romanek has done the same and met the bar Hitchcock set.Williams deserves an Oscar for this film, but we already know he won't get it.  The powers that be and their politics have already determined that Williams has won his one Oscar and that's all he's entilted to because he's not really an actor.   Romanek at least deserved a screenplay nomination, but damn it, all the man has done is music videos so there is no way in hell we'd give him a nod on his first try.Kudos to Jeff Cronenweth.  His cinematography was beautiful, but alas, he won't get the nod for the same reasons as Romanek.As a side note, Romanek obviously spent some time in a Wal-Mart, or knew someone who did.  As a former employee (God help me) I could only laugh during the break scenes at work and those wonderful SavMart smocks.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams in a Fine Artistic Drama","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a psychological thriller par excelance, brought to life by Robin Williams in one of his best roles. The film is gorgeously filmed and executed. In fact, the two big stars here are Robin Williams as Sy and Writer/Producer Mark Romanek, with Cinematographer Jeff Cronenweth winning Best Supporting role. The film looks and feels simple - deceptively so. The colors, visual and sound effects, and even some snippets of music are derivative of Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. But Romanek quickly takes us from wariness over these parallels to a comfort zone of acceptance, as he unfolds the similarities between Kubrick's HAL 900 computer and the Sy as played by Robin Williams. Sy, like HAL, is an intelligence so detached from the human race that he can not connect to others except through a third party communication medium - his pictures. Like HAL, Sy is excellent and precise at his job (photo developer), but becomes consumed by the perfectionism he perceives as required to fulfill his niche in life. Sy's progression towards insane actions accelerates when he is pushed over the edge by a trauma that threatens his world. He, like HAL, becomes completely immersed in his version of reality, to the extent that he no longer see nor understand the consequences of his increasingly radical actions as he focuses in on an isolated ideal that ultimately means the destruction of his carefully constructed immediately family.Be sure to arrive in time to see the beginning of this movie in order to be properly set up for the progression of events, as the beginning and ending make a satisfyingly complete loop, perhaps leaving us with a little more compassion and understanding after having met Sy. "},{"Title":"Bold, Beautiful, and, Brilliant!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first time I have been able to use the 3B review.  Then again it is the first time those words seemed to define a picture so perfectly.Ok first remark to the person who thought this film was dull.  I think the film makers owe you an apology for not casting Vin Diesel and Ja Rule in this film.  Also I understand that the lack of a hip hop sound track threw you for a loop.  Those damned film makers.  Don't they know real cinema? Don't they know a film needs T n A and a large, steroid injected bald headed one line actor to entertain the masses?  LOL!I usually respect anyone and everyone's opinion.  I hate using cliche come backs in defending a film such as You just didn't get it.  This time along with the three Bs I can use that cliche comeback with pride.  If you did not like this film.  Then you just did not get it.  Either that or you have lost the humanity within you.  You probably prefer dung to urine and probably prefer cheerleaders to poets.I know that nobody will get the same meaning fom the film, but everyone should get basically the same overall picture.  This film goes into an often untackled issue uncompromisingly.  That issue is that there are those who deserve the cake and get the dung.  There are some who get the cake who want the other cake, and then the other cake, followed by extra cherries. While some may think that Sy is actually insane.  I think this film portrays him as a loner who has lived such a torturess life that he finds other people's hapiness, in order to hold on to the idea that hapiness exists. The real shock was that he did not commit a single horrific crime.  He really did not even invade the people's privacy, he just kept a record of what he already saw.  I think this film goes deeper than what I got from it, but the basic point of the film is that we should never take the moments of hapiness for granted. We should strive to live life they way it looks in our family photos and not the way it looks compared to the movies.  This is a great lesson for the I can't be with you I have to find myself generation that sucks the marrow out of originality by using overplayed romance from irritating and unrealistic Romantic scenes on film and television.  Not to mention self proclaimed gurus like Dr. Phil and Oprah Winfrey.  That is why this film will be over most people's heads.  If you want to watch a smart film get your rear out of Dawson's Creek.One more point to mention.  I typically do not admire bleeding heart films such as One Hour Photo.  So just to knock down some arguments you may throw my way.  It was a registered Republican who admired the liberal message of this film.  So don't go there my fellow Republicans.  "}{"Title":"Academy Voters, WAKE UP!!!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Looking at the five best actor nominees for the Best Actor Academy Awards, it's disgraceful that Robin Williams didn't head the list.  Not one of the five even come close to Robin's superb portrayal of Sy, with one exception, Adrein Brody.  So often the award goes to the most sympathetic character and the voters give the nod to repay the character for his hardship or loss.  At other times, the Oscar goes to the actor that shouts the loudest or displays a rage of anger (Denzel Washington in Training Day).  It takes talent and training to maintain a low key performance for two hours and make it believable (Sean Penn in I Am Sam, Russell Crowe in A Beautiful Mind and The Insider.  Robin Williams plays against type in One Hour Photo and presents the best suppressed creep since Anthony Perkins played Norman Bates, and yet it equals Sir Anthony Hopkins (the master of low key) Hannibal in SOTL. One Hour Photo is only 90 minutes long...with no blood...no gore...no slashing...and yet it is one of the best thrillers of all time.'Tis a pity, Hollywood can't recognize acting when they see it. The writing, directing, editing, music, and above all the acting (including the supporting cast) all are top-notch.  This was one of the best films of 2002!!  The critics agreed! Too bad that they don't nominate for the Academy!!  "},{"Title":"Image is not enough","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mark Romanek is not only a good director, it's even a great photographer. The main scenes of the movie are constructed like if they were thought for photographic shots. It's not a Tarantino's movie where the characters speaks too much for expressing their inner feelings, in this movie the set speaks for the characters Emblematic is the scene where Sy is lied down on the bed of the mall alone. He is Alone in a place full of people, how is it possible? It happens because malls are fake places where fake people smile everyday and fake mothers and fathers walk quietly thinking to be happy. Sy is a victim of a commercial society that privileges the image to the communication of the emotions. Sy is alone, he hasn't friends, parents or someone who loves him, he has been spending his time watching the life of the others in the pictures he prints. He is a shlemiel who desires to be happy and loved. His faith in the image pushes him to change its good-natured aspect in cynical but its weapon is not the gun but the camera. Only in this way he thinks to be able to convert the running values and to see recognized its human superiority on the others. But he has forgotten an important thing In a fake society made by fake people where the simple and pure men are defeated even imagine can be fake!! He is only the reproduction of a fake reality and it is not enough to allow him to conquer the life of his dreams. He was a victim and now he is a monster. "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched it on a flight yesterday.  I watched the whole thing since the screen was right in front of me, and I couldn't imagine that Robin Williams would have been in a movie that was that bad.  If I had been in a theatre I would have walked out. "},{"Title":"Slow Ride to Nowhere","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, Much has been made about the excellence of this film, and i have to say it's really pretty much unfounded. Yes, Robin is trying something new and doing it fairly well. Is it a good performance? YES. Is it a good movie? NO. Will he get an oscar nomination? NO.In it's defense the movie does avoid a lot of stalker movie cliches, but dodging the old and tired does not necessarily mean that it's good, since the filmmakers hardly give us anything to fill the void left by avoiding the cliches. The slow, unforced pacing of the movie is nice, and subtle, but it's a slow build to NOTHING. It contains one of the most compromised, lame, pointless, and tacked on endings I have EVER seen. The last five minutes destroy everything the movie was building toward. Not to mention the dreams, while very well filmed, and the scariest thing in the whole movie, have nothing to do with anything in the movie. they hold no symbolic meaning or foreshadowing or anything.Honestly, in a year of, thus far, awful movies, this is one of the worst. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I really had no expectation. Some said it was boring, some said it lacks of action. I believe that a movie like this one does not need to be action packed. With something as simple as the life of a guy who works at Sav-Mart (a shop exactly like Wal-Mart), they created a thriller atmosphere. A maniac-compulsive man, a truly professional in both his job and hobby photo. This movie proove that even the life of the quite everyday guy could do an incredible movie, wich of course have incredible actors. "},{"Title":"Williams performance hits the mark","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is Robin Williams performance very good but this film is extremely well photographed. I personally enjoyed the shots of Williams character in his apartment and everything is in its proper place which reflects the sterilized environment he lives in. I'm also thankful that the script doesn't go over the top. It stays believable without going through the cliche hollywood dramatics. Not a great film or anything that is truly special but a pretty well made film and very well acted. "},{"Title":"Williams is excellent...movie is so-so","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A photo-processing man Seymour Sy Parrish (Robin Williams), becomes obsessed with a seemingly perfect family--the Yorkins.  He's developed their photos for years and thinks he knows all about them.  When he notices something is wrong however, he goes out of his way to correct it.This is an OK movie with a great performance.  The story is interesting, but we know next to nothing about the Yorkins--they're given very little depth.  So when things go crazy at the end, you feel nothing.  Also Connie Nielsen and Michael Vartan come across with no personality--it's not their fault--the script is against them.  Also the movie gets very unpleasant at the end.But it, more or less, works because of Willaims--he's just great as Sy...charming and creepy at the same time...he's just fantastic.  Also the young son of the Yorkins played by Dylan Smith is very good...he acts just like a 9 year old should.So it's somewhat worth seeing but no great shakes--except for Williams. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of why I truly love film.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not a review of the film, I just wanted to share a couple of thoughts with everyone. First off, you must see this film somehow. It doesn't matter how, just go out and see it somehow! I am simply blown away with it, from top to bottom. The look, the script, the dialogue, and above all else... ...the performance of one Robin Williams. Not only is he IN it, but he gives his best performance ever IMO. Add to that, the fact that he has some of my favorite lines in the entire history of film to work with, and we are really talking. Just hearing him explain and describe pictures, photography, etc... is awesome as hell. This is a total must see, and for him to be deprived of any recognition of this role, and film as a whole, will truly be a misfortune.With a showing like this, it makes one wonder why in the hell he never started doing more psycho roles until here recently (with this film, and also the recent Insomnia). What Alfred Hitchcock did to the shower in terms of how movie viewers look upon it, Mark Romanek has done to one hour photo places, and clerks.At first thought, a film about a one hour photo place, and clerk could be nothing more than a boring mess. Not here however, it is clever, inventive, and damned chilling. As a matter of fact, this film has a few of the most disturbing scenes I have ever witnessed in the history of my watching film. In short, this is about a one hour photo guy, who obsesses over those individuals who go to him to have their film developed, and it goes from there. I can't truly say much more than that, as to not give away any of the plot. I will say this though... ...have you ever wondered what if that one hour photo guy made just one more extra set of your photos and kept them for himself? This film, well, it really makes you think, not only about one hour photo stations or clerks, but about photography, and more importantly, life, in a whole new way. "},{"Title":"BEST ROBIN WILLIAMS FILM EVER.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Forget your expectations. Robin is absolutely terrifying as the sad, damaged photo clerk trapped in retail psycho-hell. Calm and mild-mannered on the outside, he's a ticking time-bomb ready to explode. Gary Cole as his evil boss is a stroke of pure genius. (Think 'OFFICE SPACE'. Think Lumberg's angry brother.) This film is dark, haunting, and brutal - finally a worthy return to the harsh, lonely-man films of the 70's. I've heard the original workprint was better; more subtle and less-coddling (before the FOX execs butchered it) but this is still one effective and astonishing film you won't soon forget. Written and directed by the guy who did the Closer video for Nine Inch Nails -- 'nuff said. "},{"Title":"Excellent and disturbing thriller!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams delivers his finest performance in this exceptional film about a man who will stop at nothing to involve himself in a family he has always admired, even though they barely know him.Everyone in the cast (including Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, and Gary Cole) does an outstanding job.The film was very well directed and written (both courtesy of Mark Romanek). The haunting score was also wonderful.Suspenseful, intelligent, nerve-wracking, and even darkly humorous, ONE HOUR PHOTO is one of the best films of the year! "}{"Title":"boring, linear plot with inadequate climax and unsatisfying twist","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie and simply wanted to comment on how boring and linear this narrative is. I don't know how many script edits this went through but it deserved a few more in my opinion. The so-called twist at the end of the film is unsatisfying as it fails to properly re-contextualise what has gone before; instead it merely throws in some back story that provides a deeper psychological motive for his actions. There is no gradual culmination of threat/suspense to engage the audience, rather the narrative progresses almost immediately from the inciting incident (protagonist loses his job) to his initial act of retribution (threatening photos of his bosses kid in the park) to his final act of mania in which he forces an errant father of a picture perfect American family to engage in a mildly degrading photo shoot (at knife-point) with his second, illegitimate lover. Then he is arrested and confesses to having been abused as a child. I felt this climax (the revenge photo shoot for the fathers infidelity, which we learn retrospectively to reflect his experiences as an abused child) should have been stronger. It wasn't dark or inventive enough to illicit any real emotional reaction - in me at least - and centres around the two characters who have been developed least (consequently, we care about them less). Nothing really culminates in this scene that has been adequately seeded earlier in the movie and fails to take one by surprise. We know he's gonna do something dark from the first act. When it finally happens it is over in minutes and fails to subvert any expectations the writer may have chosen to inculcate in his audience. Robin William's performance is alright - it ain't that demanding a role for the guy to be honest. I.e. it doesn't require anything from him as an actor that we haven't seen him do before. Over-all, its a bit of a plain Jane of a movie. zzzzzzzzzzz "},{"Title":"The one hour that's brilliant is enough to make the film an unqualified success","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers follow.The first half hour is the weakest. It seems to consist of little more than forced, awkward little conversations and encounters between Sy and members of the family he obsesses about, in which Sy is too familiar, too friendly, too knowing, and the family members don't quite pick up on this - although there's always the chance that Sy will go just a hair's breadth further, and they will. This is just painful to watch. Mark Romanek doesn't yet have the skill as a director to make any of his early scenes come to life, and apart from establishing the fact that Sy is not entirely right in the head, and doing so too obviously, he doesn't seem to know where he's going. (It must also be said that even throughout the excellent final hour Romanek's competent but sometimes ill-judged direction is the biggest enemy of Romanek's fist-rate script I wish he had used music, if at all, as music, not as a cheap horror movie sound effect; that he'd kept the camera still while showing us Sy's collection of photos of the Yorkins, rather than zooming in on them; that he hadn't included a brief dream sequence straight out of Hellraiser.) At the start of the film it's hard not to be disappointed. One Hour Photo has an inspired premise; it deserves inspired story-telling.Which it ends up getting. Romanek creates something far more interesting and affecting out of his premise than I'd dared hope. The moment that jolts the film from mediocrity to brilliance is the scene in which Bill, the Sav-Mart manager, calls Sy up to his office to fire him. We keenly feel what a terrible thing this must be for Sy. We'd already known that Bill was a prick. When there was an altercation between Sy and the machine repair guy Bill had coldly reprimanded Sy about starting fights in the store, without bothering to find out who started bellowing first (it was in fact the repair guy, not Sy), or what the dispute was about (it was about something important, and Sy was completely in the right). Bill attacks Sy and undermines what little power he has in the cruellest way he can. And the manner in which Sy gets fired is likewise cruel. A decent human being - and one doesn't get to be manager of a shopping complex by being a decent human being - would have at least given Sy a choice about whether to continue working for the rest of the week, or not (without, of course, making Sy's severance salary or back holiday pay dependent on how he chose). The conditions under which Sy is expected to come to work for the rest of the week are intolerable. Not that his work conditions had been tolerable beforehand he'd been forced to wear humiliating clothes, all but coerced into providing a poor service (we admire him for resisting), not once been TREATED like a human being, and made to set up shop inside a shopping mall more hideous and dystopian than any I've seen in Australia - I suspect more hideous and dystopian than any existing in the USA, either, although in either case it's only a slight exaggeration of reality, and in years to come it may not be an exaggeration at all.From here on the film doesn't set a foot wrong - until, perhaps, the final moment. I think it was a mistake to have Sy tell the police (but mainly the audience) about his childhood, explaining his subsequent behaviour by letting us know he was abused as a child, all too neatly adding (one can imagine Sigmund Freud ticking off the one remaining item on his checklist) that his father used to take photos of him doing degrading things. I'm not saying the scene doesn't work. Robin Williams didn't need to deliver this speech at all, since already in this film he'd gained our sympathy far more than he ever had in the past - but it must be said he delivers his lines movingly. And it's good that the policeman questioning Sy was given the chance to behave in a civilised manner, and nice for a change, in an American film, to see such civilised behaviour, rather than the usual fascist brutality, held up as an ideal. But we already knew that SOMETHING about the first part of Sy's life had been unhappy. Best to leave it at that. We can speculate if we want to. Besides, Sy's unhappy early life, whatever form it may happen to take, is only part of the story. Just as important, if not more so, in understanding why he went over the edge are the years of slavery he spent at Sav-Mart. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, but I'm having trouble finding the meaning of this film. I went into the theater with no expectations. I read some of the reviews that described the movie as deeply terrifying and creepy. I also noticed that Robin Williams was playing a bad guy in the film, and after seeing last summer's Insomnia, I was ready to return to the dark side of Robin William's persona. Well, I must say that this movie was very dissapointing. It seemed to drag on and on...and I don't mean that this is a character-driven movie...it is just plain BORING. Nothing seems to happen. By the end of the film, I didn't really care what happened to the main characters (neither did half of the audience in the particular showing I saw, who got up and left before the movie was even over.) I felt no suspense, no terror, no edge-of-my-seat intensity. Hopefully this turkey will be forgotten in the following months. The only thing deeply terrifying about this movie is that it was actually made. "},{"Title":"Edgy Thriller exploring the darker side of loneliness","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sy Parrish (Robin Williams) works in a photo finishing lab at Savmart. He has been an employee there for 11 years and knows many of his regular customers perhaps better than they know themselves. However, Sy becomes really obsessed with one family (The Yorkins) and has kept several of their photos from over the years at his house. Sy's obsession is fairly harmless at first, but his behaviour becomes more erratic after he is sacked from Savmart and after he discovers that Will Yorkin is having an affair with another woman.One Hour Photo is, much like the development of photographs, a rather slow process. It essentially introduces us to Parrish and slowly starts to establish his psychological mind- set. Parrish is a lonely person, a man who longs for family and friends which I feel is something that he believes many people take for granted (which is what part of the film is about). Parrish's job is perhaps the only thing that's keeping him going as I think that getting brief insights into people's lives is a way of taking his mind off his own lonely existence. This becomes evident when Parrish gets sacked which is ultimately what brings his darker side to the surface.Robin Williams is better known for his comedy roles, but it's worth noting that he is also very good in dramatic roles - he plays a creepy character in Christopher Nolan's Insomnia and is excellent in both films. Williams gives an edginess to his character that makes him fascinating to watch even when the pace lags a bit in the first half. This isn't the first time he's taken on a complex character and his versatility as an actor is something that he'll long be remembered for. The supporting cast were all OK, but it's definitely Robin Williams who makes this memorable.I'm sure that many people have come to their own conclusions on what was actually going on in this film; was it all fantasy? Was some of it real and some of it fantasy? I think it's safe to assume that at least some of it must have been in Parrish's head as it's revealed on at least one occasion that what we're seeing isn't actually real.No matter how you look at this film there's no denying that it is an interesting and somewhat disturbing look on the way loneliness can affect individuals in extreme cases. The picture has a simmering slow-burning tension to it and when Parrish catches up with the adulterous couple towards the end it's actually quite a chilling sight. Fans of psychological thrillers or character studies will almost certainly enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Keep Your Friends Close And Photos Closer","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from this movie hen I first heard, I wasn't to sure if it was going to be a jump scare thriller with gore, which im a fan off but its nice to see something different that will keep on edge without over the top gore and scares.Mark Romenek deserves more credit he pulled off a great thriller, especially casting Robin Williams who is know for his comedic roles as a deranged stalker.One Hour Photo focuses on Sy, a lonely man who has no family or friends but works in a photo lab department of a suburban American grocery store. Sy knows all of his regular customers and memorises them by what photos they regularly come to get printed, But Sy has an unhealthy obsession with the Yorkin family.The Yorkin family is a happy family of three, mother Nina her partner Will and their young son Jakob. Mother and son have been using that lab for 7 years getting their prints to the point Jakob calls Sy 'Sy The Photo Guy' unknown to them over the years Sy has been printing off separate copies of the photos to put on his wall.Mid way through the movie we see the descent of Sy, from the helpful man to stalker, always seems to be there, reading the same books and has a fascination of being known as Uncle Sy and work his way in the family unit.After an incident at work Sy is fired, and realising he will never be in the family unit he starts to up the ante in being top stalker... After discovering Will's infidelities he goes all out in letting everyone know...If your after a thriller horror with loads of jump scares and gore this isn't for you, but its more for people who appreciate the classic thriller using great cinematography and intense atmosphere "},{"Title":"Sympath for a obsessive psycho","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a underrated psychological thriller about a one-hour photo lab worker named Sy that is obsessed with a family, that he develops photos for. Now what really drives this movie, is how it delves into Sy's mindset and what makes him tick. Now Robin Williams did a phenomenal job playing this character. He was believable as a psycho and yet still carried that teddy bear vibe, if that makes sense. Robin Williams played another role where he plays a psychopath during the same year, in the movie Insomnia. But there is more sympathy for his character in this one, because despite it not really delving into his backstory. You as an audience member can sense where the character is coming from. Near the end, the plot seemed to drag slightly but that is only a small gripe. Besides that this is a existential and in-depth movie that deals with loneliness and memories. How some memories we try to hold onto while others we learn from it but want to forget. And how this can have an effect on a person. Overall, this is a worthy watch especially because of Robin Williams performance.7.6/10 "},{"Title":"Picture Perfect","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whilst my only complaint is that it starts off a bit slow, One Hour Photo becomes a fast paced thriller which pitches you on the edge of your seat. The thing I love about this film is that it never reveals to much at one time. The ending is explosive and all the little bits in between are fantastic. Robin Williams' acing is phenomenal, whilst (just like the perfect photo) the filming is also above par, capturing all the scenes in beautiful glory.I can't believe I waited so long to see this. A truly underrated gem and a great thriller. It's also very original, with no film before or after imitating what you watch. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is not very well known, I only found out about it a few days ago when it popped up in my recommended section. It you haven't seen the film, it's about a man who processes film and turns them into photos. Early on into the film we find out he is obsessed with a family who comes into to have photos developed regularly. Robin Williams does a fantastic job as this character, and I can say it is one of his best performances. The rest of the acting is pretty good, and the child actor did well for a child actor.What really makes this film stand out is the directing. Mark Romanek is very talented and I'm surprised he hasn't had more well known films come out. The story is very uncomfortable, as it is told so well. This is one of those films that you can love but not ever want to watch more than once like A Woman Under The Influence or maybe Requiem for a Dream. This film is definitely worth watching. There's a lot of really well placed symbolism if you watch carefully. The only real issues I have with the film might be the pacing and little plot details. I feel like the music might have been overused and some scenes good have benefited from more silence. One last interesting point about this film Trent Reznor actually composed a soundtrack for this film, but the filmmakers decided not to use it. A lot of this music went into the Nine Inch Nails album Still. "},{"Title":"Amazing. Robin Williams plays the perfect creep","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had always wanted to watch this movie because i had seen so many Robin Williams movies but not this one. This movie is sharp, creepy, weird, thrilling and really, really good. I am still thinking about it days after watching it. Some of the film is even left to interpretation by the viewer so there is even more to figure out. The movie is about Sy, a photo clerk at a super store. Sy(short for Seymour) played by Robin Williams is a typical man in his 40's/50's that is a nice, lovable, loser that lives alone. His loneliness turns him mad. He becomes obsessed with a family (Nina, Will, and Jake) that regularly gets their photos developed by him. He makes copies of their photos and puts them on the wall of his apartment. He is so lonely that he dreams of being a part of this family. He buys the same book that he sees sticking out of Nina's bag at the store. At first, he wanted to be like an uncle to the family but then later on he wants to marry Nina and get rid of her husband Will. One of the creepiest parts of the movie is when Sy watches the family's son Jake (Dylan Smith) play soccer from the sidelines and acts like an uncle.Sy eventually gets in trouble for using the extra film to make the copies of the family photos and gets fired for it by his boss (Gary Cole). Sy completely loses his mind at this point, and is determined to get rid of Will by filming his infidelity. Without giving it all away, the ending is wild. I would say the first half of the movie is better than the second but I'm nitpicking.8.5/10 Very intense, very creepy. Williams at his best in my opinion. Not necessarily his best acting but his best character fit. Kudos to the director and supporting cast as well, it was very well done. Thrilling atmosphere and excellent music. This movie is gripping partly because its so cringe worthy at times how weird Williams' character is and how obsessed he is. Humans can be such odd creatures when they are alone for too long. "},{"Title":"Great Photo Finish!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo (2002) Dir Mark Romanef / Cast Robin Williams, Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan. Gary Cole, Eriq La Salle Photographs capture time and memories but it only takes a short time for those moments to be invaded. Robin Williams plays photo clerk Sy Parrish who narrates the film giving viewers a bit of history on the word snap-shot as a hunting term. He makes extra prints and imagines himself amongst them as uncle Sy while plastering his apartment walls with photographs. He also knows that the husband id having an affair because he examined the photographs. He is an intruder who hides his knowledge behind a friendly smile. Great setup with analysis of his work and home life leading to a powerful ending. Director Mark Romanek graces the film with shots that suggest invasion of the mind. Powerful performance by Williams whose profession is both his doorway to acceptance and his reality to consequence and instability. Connie Nielsen is also strong as the mother whose romantic void is obvious when Williams knows what she doesn't. Michael Vartan as her husband needed more depth but he receives his regret in the most deliberate fashion. Gary Cole plays Williams's boss who pushes him to the limits. Eriq La Salle is superb as a detective whose final scene brings proper resolution and understanding. Loneliness is something nobody wishes to capture on film. Score 9 / 10 "}{"Title":"Nothing special, but interesting performance from Robin Williams","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams touched a lot of people (no, not like that) in a special way (stop it!). When he passed on, I witnessed quite distraught, hysterical reactions from some fans online. A few were even espousing the idea that Patch Adams & What Dreams May Come were decent films after all. While I'm not a big fan, I really enjoyed his turns as Popeye and the voice of Aladdin's Genie. The man had bags of energetic comedic talent, and his drama skills were pretty good too when not too sweetened with hardcore-saccharine. Yet the most effective comparison with a dramatic actor from his peership is when we consider Dustin Hoffman's turn as Tootsie vs Robin's effort in the Mrs Doubtfire outfit. The latter actor being for the younger and/or more sentimental type.This rather long introduction is just to explain that I generally wasn't fussed about his output, but One Hour Photo intrigued me...and more than a decade after release I finally get to see it. Biggest reason to watch/best thing about it the character Robin creates here is genuinely believable. He's a living, breathing human being...damaged by his utter loneliness. It's an impressive performance and for me justifies his efforts back then to sell himself as a more serious & versatile actor.The film itself is rather simple, with the rest of the cast blandly portraying 2-dimensional characters. Gary Cole was only given a formulaic role to play, he could've done something special if the writing wasn't so singularly fixated on Robin's character. The family are all a bit yawn. The experience as a whole is mildly-absorbing, if unremarkable. Technically everything is quite competent, tho' again it's all very standard.The premise of the story is stimulating if, like me, you enjoy photography and are engaged in the many facets of the digital-vs-analogue debate. Some might feel the ideas here are outdated already, but there's still plenty of people out there who shoot film and then let their local store develop the images. Plus when the premise really is outdated in a decade or two, this movie serves as a reasonably-accurate snapshot of that era.Recommended for film buffs looking for a very different Robin Williams performance, and also for those interested in the potential illusion of privacy when allowing your analogue film to be developed by strangers.Not particularly recommended if all you're looking for is a gripping psychological thriller, it's just a little too average. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Psychological Thriller","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think the first time that I saw One Hour Photo I couldn't have been paying too much attention to it because I actually thought it was a very slow paced mediocre film. However, after now watching it for the first time since it's release and actually paying attention, it is definitely much better than I initially thought. The film is pretty slow-paced - that view's not changed - but when you pay attention, and understand & listen to what is happening, it doesn't feel all that slow as you become more drawn into the story, which is well written.The story isn't full of implausible moments, it doesn't have that Hollywood touch about it, and isn't full of the usual stalker film cliché's. I also enjoyed how it got you thinking if some of the later scenes were for real or if they were just in Sy's head. I mean the first main fantasy scene wasn't obvious until it's end, so maybe other scenarios weren't real either. It never confused you but it got you thinking which was good.The cast all do a great job with their roles, but Williams was the main standout with his performance of Sy. You know that Sy is obviously completely in the wrong with what he's doing but you still feel sorry for him and this is where Williams plays the part SO well. He doesn't make Sy seem like some clichéd sick twisted psycho...he portrays Sy as just a very nice but a sad, lonely individual whose only friend in life is his pet hamster. No matter what happens during the film, you just cannot feel any hate towards Sy.I sometimes don't notice the way scenes are filmed in movies at times, but the use of the colours to depict the mood for different scenarios was done well I thought. The main instance here being the difference between Sy's own personal world i.e. in his home, compared to that of the Yorkin's. It's not done for the sake of it nor to be artsy, but done with reason which adds to the overall feel of the film.This isn't an amazing film, but it is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams the Creep","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a common saying that all comedy is based on misery. Someone needs to suffer for it to be funny. Thus it should be no surprise that comedians are more than capable of pulling off more dramatic and even outright depressing roles. One might even say they're perfect for them.Enter one Robin Williams, playing the role of Seymour Parrish. Or, as most people know him, Sy the Photo Guy. A deeply lonely man, his life consisting of nothing else than serving his customers at the local photo kiosk and watching television. Things take a turn for the worse when we find out he has developed an obsession for a particular family, called the Yorkins. Sy has lived his lived vigorously through them for years, but now he has finally turned a leaf to full stalkerdom.And thus begins our movie, and it is about as uncomfortable as you can imagine. It's one thing when an obviously creepy and scary man is doing the stalking, but it's quite another when it's someone as sympathetic and lovable as Robin Williams. You know you shouldn't root for him, but it's Robin Williams, and that creates great tension in the film, when usually such a jovial guy just stares at this little boy, offering him toys.Where the film falters slightly is the execution of this great idea. I don't blame the director however because he really wanted the film to be longer, but unfortunately studio meddling got in the way and thus the whole film feels slightly rushed, especially towards the end. I get the sense that the situation was supposed to go on much longer and thus the twist at the end of the second act would have come as a much bigger shock.As a whole One Hour Photo is definitely worth a watch if you're a fan of Robin Williams seeing that it is such an unusual role for him. It's also a decent psychological thriller on its own. It's well-acted, well-shot and the story, while rushed, is not too shabby either. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour PhotoNowadays, it's not just the one-hour photo employees that see your nude pics&#x85;it's everyone on your phone.This thriller, however, takes place before digital photography.As senior technician of the photo lab in the local drug store, Sy (Robin Williams) is privy to the private lives of all his patrons.His favourite customers are the Yorkins (Michael Vartan, Connie Nielsen, Dylan Smith), whose photos Sy steals on the sly for his giant collage of the unknowing family.But when he uncovers evidence of the husband's infidelity, Sy's obsession with him and his perfect life turns to resentment and uncontrollable anger. Robin Williams' most underrated performance, the comedian's take on the fixated sociopath Sy will make your skin crawl. While less impactful overtime, this disturbing story still clings to your psyche.Furthermore, it's nice to visit a time in history when your personal photos weren't the property of Facebook.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A dark film about a troubled mind.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An employee of a one-hour photo lab becomes obsessed with a young suburban family. Middle aged Sy Parrish works as a technician at a one hour photo lab located in a SavMart store in a suburban mall. Sy is a lonely man, never having had any friends. He knows much about his customers through the photographs they have developed. But he knows more about the Yorkin family - specifically Nina Yorkin and her adolescent son Jake Yorkin, the two in the family who drop off and pick up the family's photofinishing - than anyone else, the family about who he is obsessed. Nina's husband, Will Yorkin, is incidental to his obsession since Sy has only seen him in photographs. Sy's obsession includes fantasizing about being their favorite Uncle Sy. He has even been making an extra set of prints for himself of all of their photographs since Jake was a newborn. After an incident at work and after Sy finds out more about the family through a set of photographs, he decides to right the injustices he sees in the only way he knows how. His actions demonstrate his true mental state. Roger Ebert wrote Watching the film, I thought of Michael Powell's great 1960 British thriller Peeping Tom, which was about a photographer who killed his victims with a stiletto concealed in his camera. Sy uses a psychological stiletto, but he's the same kind of character, the sort of man you don't much notice, who blends in, accepted, overlooked, left alone so that his rich secret life can flower. There is a moment in Peeping Tom when a shot suddenly reveals the full depth of the character's depravity. In One Hour Photo, a shot with a similar purpose requires only a lot of innocent family snapshots, displayed in a way that is profoundly creepy. One Hour Photo' is not a film for those who like their chills heavily laced with bloodshed, murder and mayhem. It is, rather, for those who can appreciate a quietly unsettling, yet strangely compassionate glimpse into the dark recesses of the troubled mind. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling And Disturbing Character Piece","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having watched Nightcrawler recently, I was in the mood to see some more great performances from actors playing disturbing characters. One Hour Photo is exactly that kind of film.Robin Williams plays Sy, a man who works at the one hour photo place at a Walmart type store. The issue is that he starts to become obsessed with one family in particular that gets their photos developed by him, and it becomes clear very early on that Sy just isn't right in the head. Williams plays this character unbelievably well. He comes across as totally crazy, but in a down to earth way. The best part is, he is completely sympathetic too. Although you know he's messed up, you can't help but feel the pain this guy has deep down. Williams perfectly executes this and it's great to see. In particular, a scene at the very end that I won't spoil has Sy indirectly telling another character about something that happened in his past, and it's pretty heartbreaking to see. I think the performance also has another amount of depth to it due to the recent suicide of Williams, and it makes you wonder if that sadness that he shows in his character is something that he channeled from his own feelings. Very sad, but an amazing performance.The movie is quite well shot. The scenes in the store are very white and feel sterile in a way, and the scenes in the family home have a warm tone to it. There's lot of great uses of color throughout, like the red developing room being used to emphasize a characters emotional state. There's also a good dream sequence that is disturbing and memorable. Overall, it's a pretty wonderful film to watch.I really like how this movie plays out. It slowly builds up the characters until about the one hour mark, where things start to really kick off and the build up pays off. It's an intense and disturbing character study of a film, and I absolutely love that. Robin Williams performance is under rated, and NEEDS to be seen. "},{"Title":"Williams at His Best","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams was a fantastic actor. Very sad how things turned out for this great man. He played many parts that made us laugh and smile. He played very few that showed another side of his acting, parts that were dark and disturbed. Perhaps watching a movie like this shows how sad and alone Robin Williams may/or may not have been, as he went deep with this performance, and channeled a deeply sad and disturbing individual in this film. Most acting comes from at least 'some' part of the actor as they are the one acting the part. Just saying on that note. But this was truly a great film, one of Williams' best performances for the sheer fact that he never showed this side of his acting very often, but also just because it was a terrific performance. There is a twist at the end of the film, not so much a twist to the story, but a twist to the character and how we view him after learning the twist. Everything about this movie rides on the twist at the end. Any lesser film and the twist would have been contrived/forced, and basically phony. But the subtle way the twist unfolds with the great writing and the top level of acting William's gives in the moment, the twist unfolds very naturally. The scene also where Williams is running down the hotel parking structure, brilliant, just brilliant. Williams will be very missed. "},{"Title":"The Guy You Never Notice...","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams unfortunately killed himself recently. In One-Hour Photo, he plays the role of Seymour, an incredibly nice guy who wants to be part of a family, but who doesn't understand boundaries and ends up terrorizing the Yorkin family and doing more harm than good. He knows Nina Yorkin and her son because he's a photo lab technician at a wholesale Wal-Mart/Costco looking store. He often develops photos of the Yorkin family but secretly keeps doubles, which he uses to build a massive collage on his wall. He has no kids, wife, even a roommate, and it's not only disturbing and creepy, but very sad to watch as Seymour's mental stability degrades to the point where he's taking photographs of his boss' daughter as blackmail and revealing to Nina that her husband cheated on her multiple times with some skanky woman.One-Hour Photo is by no means a horror film, but it certainly makes you think. Could the mailman who always brings your letters, your local pharmacist, the pizza delivery guy, want to be more than just a friendly service? With amazing acting from nearly every actor/actress in this film, it almost seems real.Don't pass up this film, it's a haunting experience and full of brilliant performances! "},{"Title":"Thrilling Hidden Gem","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo has the suspense and subtleties straight out of a Hitchcock movie, but takes place in a more modern setting. This underrated work of film stars the late Robin Williams as a photo developer for a local store who has taken an interest in the Yorkin family through the family pictures he works on. This is truly one of the most underrated and overlooked movies to come out in recent years and it really shows Mr. Williams' acting abilities when it comes to being immersed into a chilling character.The story line, though goes off the beaten path a few times, showcases a good amount of suspense and atmosphere to keep it engaging. What makes One Hour Photo a standout from most thrillers in it's genre lies in it's avoidance of the usual clichés and nuances which makes the twists and turns all the more effective. It quietly studies the main character of Sy Parrish whose bleak sense of loneliness carries the film throughout it's well-written plot. The pacing may leave some viewers underwhelmed, but it is well worth it when given the proper chance.All of the actors do a pretty good job with their given roles, but it is ultimately Robin Williams who steals the show. The psychopathic portrayal of Sy Parrish shows the level of range Williams has as an actor. Unlike most characters in thrillers where it's easy to identify the good guy from the bad guy, the character of Sy is not so easy to distinguish where you might end up feeling both disgusted and sympathetic towards his motives. Regardless, Sy is a quiet, subtle character to study for and is one of the more memorable performances from Robin Williams' career.The use of lighting and cinematography brings in a chilling atmosphere that show you the bleak world of Sy's twisted fantasies. All the shots can range from blank to dark within the story and it really is a fascinating work of film to look at. The musical score also adds a nice touch of suspense to this already engaging thriller.In the end, One Hour Photo will remain of the most underrated thrillers of the last 15 years and I hope it will continue to get the recognition it rightfully deserves. The engaging story, creepy atmosphere, and a strong performance from Robin Williams makes this film worth recommending. And after all that I've talked about this overlooked gem of a film, I giving it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is brilliant here","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was super good, creepy and intense in a quiet sort of way as there are lots of scenes without any dialogue at all. You just watch mild mannered 'Sy' going about his daily routine; working as a film processor at a one hour photo lab at the local mall, eating by himself, watching TV alone with a giant collage behind him, stealing a knife, stalking a young family.Robin Williams is absolutely brilliant here; chilling, fascinating and by the end sympathy inducing. As funny as he is I really enjoy him in the dramatic roles and he nails this. This has been filmed in a way that reminded me of Breaking Bad in that there are lots of scenes without dialogue, you just watch riveted and slack jawed as someone goes about their business. 8/13/14 "}{"Title":"A  disturbing portrait of obsession and loneliness capped by a tour de force by Robin Williams","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" We all have seen men like Sy Parrish People who are on the fringe of society doing what they do to survive yet being alone and removed till they find something that makes it all worth it. In this case, the pictures of the Yorkin family which Sy has done for years has given him such pleasure that he sees himself as he puts it in 1 creepy scene as UNCLE SY. It's remarkable to see Robin Williams who I've loved for his remarkable turns in Aladdin, Jumangi, Flubber and other comedies to be playing such a lonely, sad and perhaps sympathetic character. He is amazing in showing his loneliness, especially in his scenes at his home and how he sees himself as a member of his family by saving a copy of all their pictures in that frightening collage in his house. His silence and sad isolation from everyone is chilling, and then Williams' expertly explodes in 3 powerful scenes which you will know once you see them.In addition, the film doesn't tun into a slasher like I first feared when Sy is fired and takes the knife from the Savemart. Instead, it's a red herring and the director and Sy lead us down a curvy path where he gets revenge on his boss by doing what he says a snapshot originally was,  a hunting term. There's another scene where Williams sits in his car near the Yorkin home, and we see him stealthily going through it. The director amazingly is able to confuse the viewer into losing track of what's real and fantasy, and though Williams' is only talking to the dog watching TV in the living room the effect of the scene makes it feel wrong, he shouldn't be there and honestly this along with the eyes' scene were the films creepiest moments and no blood/gore was needed. Connie Nielsen is great as is Dylan Smith(Jake) in showing how even such a happy family like them has issues, which the director teases wonderfully between Mr. and Mrs. Yorkin till Uncle Sy sees the truth himself in the photo lab. He then take sit upon himself as he later says, due to his anger at Mr. Yorkin for neglecting and abusing his family to expose him to his family and what better way then with a picture which says a thousand words.It's a shame that Williams' didn't get more acclaim for this part,though Ebert and others(2003 Saturn Award) saw what myself and others did. In the light of his tragic death, this is the first full movie of his I've seen since then, his suicide shocked me and my family who were all fans of his work.) Yet in a way, this movie seems to channel Robin's own life, someone who seemed to have a lot going for him, yet had his own pain, issues and fantasies about how he wanted to live which sadly never came to fruition. "},{"Title":"One of the best performances of Robin Williams in the decade.","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams had 3 movies in this year, all of them great.This movie is creepily satisfying, with Robin Williams playing a very creepy stalker, you know this is gonna be good.The movie also had its memorable moments, like when Sy was running out of the hotel and his creepy dream where his eyes were bleeding.. (That actually made me jump)The movie is stunning although the movie is just Sy's problems and Sy stalking, it needs an actual storyline to it.Great job Mr. Williams, I am impressed! I hope you'll still be there to be in great movies like this.. R.I.P Robin Williams "},{"Title":"Williams' single best performance . . .","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the great qualities of Robin Williams is his ability to keep surprising us. Yes, his off-screen act seems to be a repetitive act of doing the same schtick over and over, but in the movies, he always takes chances. For me, there's never been a bigger risk to one actor than his performance in One Hour Photo. Williams plays Sy Parrish, a bland, smiling salesman at a one hour photomat that occupies the corner of one of those vast Mega-marts where you can buy everything from toothpaste to radial tires. As a human being he's pretty forgettable. He is just another face mixed into the tapestry of your busy day. You do your business and then he is gone from your mind three seconds after you stuff your receipt in your pocket and walk away.Looking at Sy, one would assume that he goes home to the wife and kids, but as it turns out, his only family is his beloved photo-mat. There isn't anything really distinctive about Sy and as we follow his day, as he goes through the routine of routine we see that a pattern of loneliness has bred routine and resentment and obsession.One day during the visit by Nina Yorkin (Connie Neilson), a regular customer, Sy carefully notices that there is one picture left on the roll. Holding the camera back he takes a picture of himself. This seemingly innocent gesture is, for Sy, a gesture of recognition. What Nina doesn't know is that over the years Sy has developed a sort of obsession with the family bliss that shows through in Nina's photographs. He wants Nina and her family to recognize him and he tries to get their approval in small gestures like giving Nina's son a free camera and making double prints free of charge.The Yorkins, Will, Nina and 8 year-old Jake are comfort food for Sy, they contrast sharply with his den of loneliness and routine. Their photos show a pretty family which stands out among the regulars like The Cat Lady, a woman who obsessively empties roll after roll of her cats and The Amateur Porn Artist, the shifty guy who keeps taking nude photos of his girlfriend. Sy fantasizes about being part of the Yorkin family and breaking away from his meaningless life as he wanders through their photos of birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, vacations and family bliss.Then, something happens. A young woman drops off photos of herself being intimate with Will. It is here that Sy's vision of the Yorkins begins to crack. Attempting to sabotage the affair, Sy accidentally drops the photos of Will and his lover into Nina's photo sleeve hoping that Will gets his comeuppance.When he doesn't get the reaction he expects, Sy comes unglued. It would be criminal of me to reveal what happens next except to say that it isn't what we expect. What I can say is that Romanek balances the routine everyday nature of the first half of the film with an ending that is just as balanced so that everything that happens makes complete sense.This was the second time in 2002 that Robin Williams had played a psychotic. The first was in Chris Nolan's Insomnia. There, as here, Williams shows portrait of a man whose frustration bubbles slowly under the surface as the irritations of the world begin to invade his private comfort zone. Sy wants to remain in his fantasy and as the fantasy and the reality begin to cave in around him you can see him desperately trying to patch the holes and keep the illusion alive.Williams' performance is, at first, understated with quiet passages that allow you to watch his eyes and see that he is always thinking. Sy is the portrait of a man who remains invisible and remains very good at his job because it allows him to keep his illusion going. Routine is a manner of remaining inside his fantasy because he knows that he can never have the life that the Yorkins enjoy.Robin Williams image will forever be cemented as the wacky nut that we saw on The Tonight Show, yet as film historians assess (especially in the wake of his tragic death) this contribution to film, his dramatic work seems to be just as important as his comedic work. Sy is an original creation from a source that we don't expect. Sy emerges as a man who smiles pleasantly while managing routines that feed his own mania.In a way Sy reminds us of Travis Bickle, the tortured soul of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver, another meaningless soul who goes unnoticed and fixates on an obsession. Bickle wanted to be the savior for Iris, the teen prostitute. Sy wants to live the idea of an idyllic fantasy that is different from the hundreds of meaningless photos that pass through his hands day after day. The difference is that Sy wants to remain in his fantasy. He is a damaged man who hides in his ordinariness, and is best left inside his delusion. "},{"Title":"A very underrated Robin Williams film","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After hearing the tragically sad news this week I decided I wanted to watch some of Robin's films. Mrs Doubtfire is probably my favourite film of Robin's but I also decided to watch One Hour Photo. This is a film I'd never heard of but the premise sounded intriguing. I was also keen to see how well Robin could do a 'serious' role as I'd only ever really seen him in comedies. I was very impressed with this film. The plot is extremely creepy and thought provoking. The acting is very good and Robin plays Sy the Photo Guy to perfection. He is a very strange character, his actions are disturbing and it's intriguing to find out more and more about this character as the film goes on. The film overall is pretty intense and does well to avoid some movie clichés. I felt it was a very unique film in its own kind of way.I was quite surprised to see it rated at only 6,8. I think more people need to become aware of this great little film. I will give it an 8.5/10.R.I.P Robin Williams "},{"Title":"The creeping, chilling whispers of psychology.","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oftentimes the culprit of misinterpretation is expectation.Trailers are fun and all that, but time and again my theory's proved The less you know before seeing a film, the better.One Hour Photo's no exception.Expect the unexpected.Avoiding all synopses, an accurate prediction regarding a narrative arc is near impossible. Since it's a dramatic thriller, sinister behavior's a sure thing.Otherwise, it unfolds in an unanticipated manner. Therefore, it's difficult to draw correlatives without spoiling.It's written and directed by Mark Romanek; as of yet, the first in his two-feature career.People seem to forget Robin Williams's range as an acting talent. Aside from the voice of Genie in Aladdin, amongst a slew of other impressive roles, his achievements are featured prominently in Good Will Hunting and What Dreams May Come.Williams stars as Seymour Sy Parrish, a photo booth attendant with a suspicious proclivity.Connie Nielsen turns in an excellent performance as Nina Yorkin, a frequent customer of the one-hour photo development lab. Nielsen's had a long career in the film-biz. Unfortunately at first glance, her cinematic history seems unremarkable.Her most noteworthy role is that of Lucilla, Commodus's sister in Gladiator. Now that you think about it, she's very good in that, yes yes?See how easily the notion's misplaced?Nielsen's acting chops really shine through here, but her performance is easily forgettable in the midst of a confusing tale, daunting subject material and a powerhouse protagonist.Sy's workplace is a satirical version of Wal-Mart located in a suburban mall, but the setting's of minimal concern.(Side Note If you can find me a Wal-Mart that's half as clean, organized or well-staffed as this Savmart, I'd&#x85;well, I'd never believe you.)The only necessary contextual reference is the plot's unfolding upon the cusp of digital photography. Sy's occupational necessity teeters on irrelevance.Two types of people will enjoy this Film buffs and psychology scholars. As a piece of commercial art, it's impossible to ignore the story's merit.This is a tight, well-crafted ninety-five minute film. Priority lies with painting a clear picture of a character coping with a contemporary existential crisis, not with polishing the narrative veneer.But, should you see it? Why not?Spoiler sensitive types. stop reading here!In particular the photo development process is masterfully shot and edited beautifully. The sequence shimmers as a fountain plume of knowledge, and a cornucopia of succulent eye candy.Speaking of ocular capability, the disturbing nightmare remains a mystery to me. The scene's certainly there for a reason; I simply can't discern the purpose at present. But Romanek's first feature's such a sterile and meticulous craft I don't need to revisit the material. Its purposeful placement is fairly supposed.Nuance glimmers in the details, after all.And that's what I like about this movie; the hint of fairy dust twinkling amidst shadowy corners.During an early moment, Nina comforts her son Jake (played by Dylan Smith) who voices concerns about Sy's loneliness. Lying on his bed, Nina reassures him by suggesting they close their eyes and generate good thoughts on the photo attendant's behalf.While the scene unfolds, Jake fiddles with an 'expanding sphere' toy, and it resonates thematically with the larger narrative. As the boy expands and contracts the plastic mechanical star, their positive energy's injected into the metaphysical ether. Isolated from Sy's physical presence, the pair still generates good will for him, when nobody else is.The cosmic microcosm resonates with the later discussion of Deepak Chopra and the expanding/contracting of the universe.Another revelatory moment takes place when Sy walks the boy home from soccer practice.In this scene, Nina's son illustrates a mature level of even-handedness most adults can't muster. Without a trace of judgment, Jake accepts Sy's gesture of friendship. The boy welcomes the attendant's company, just like he would a schoolmate.Subjective audience members are acutely aware of the danger in Jake's actions because of potential instability in Sy's mental faculties. Stepping back and ignoring that bias reveals no immorality or cause for suspicion in the protagonist's actions.Up until Sy offers the action figure, he hasn't technically committed a moral transgression. But Jake's refusal of the gift draws a line in the existential sand. The boy's commitment to honesty is of significantly less concern than the alternative implications.In a way, this choice to decline is the catalyst allowing Sy's ultimate redemption. The film culminates in a realm of moral obscurity; perhaps otherwise, that wouldn't be the case.The action figure represents an unspoken power shift. Instead of being two human beings standing on equal footing; Sy tempts the boy with an unachievable material gain. You might call it 'forbidden fruit.' No matter what the phrasing, a 'gift' still represents a tangible exchange.And I'd also argue it shows Sy at his weakest. Luckily for him, Jake makes the correct decision on both their behalves.A refined detail is the framed mirror with the reminder to 'Check Your Smile' in the Savmart locker room.Even the means of self-evaluation, the lens through which Sy can inspect himself, lies in the shadow cast by the judgmental puppeteers of higher-tiered society.I never do this but I'm going to cheat by parroting the conclusion from another review.Because, hey, it's succinct.Elaine Cassel concludes, Movies could play a more productive role in explaining psychopathology if the sources of twisted behavior were explained realistically and compassionately, as they are here. One Hour Photo is a rewarding study of abnormal behavior and one that psychology students should appreciate, if not enjoy. It leaves us wondering, and caring, now that we know what's wrong with Sy, what will happen to Sy.Brief, yeah? Hope it helps! "},{"Title":"Creepy Robin Williams","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Seymour Parrish (Robin Williams) is a lonely obsessed employee working at an one hour photo developer inside a big box store. He becomes fixated on the Yorkins (Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, Dylan Smith) and tries to insinuate himself into their lives. His boss Bill Owens (Gary Cole) starts to have problems with him.It's a quiet creepy performance from Robin Williams. Writer/director Mark Romanek is mostly known for music videos. It's a very plain movie. The style is very much like the big box store. It has a possibility of a more interesting movie. A creepy Robin Williams isn't enough. There needs to be more meat on the bone. There has to be a story. The ending payoff is simply not big enough. Instead of a powerful explosion, the movie is going for poetic weirdness. This is an interesting performance in search of a more explosive story. "},{"Title":"Sharply Focused Film","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's Creepy and Understated all the way. From Robin Williams Ultra Geekafied Performance to the Kubrick like Stale and Stagnant, but Beautiful Visuals this Thing is Shot like a Sharp Focused Snapshot of an Obsessive/Compulsive Mind.It is Leisurely Paced like a Suburban Lifestyle and it Broods Along as the Tension Tightens and Things Snap as these Things are want to do. An Almost Perfect Film until the Last Ten Minutes or so when an Explanation of Behavior is Tacked on for no Good Reason.The Environment is Inviting because it is Clean and Orderly, but don't be Fooled. It is just such a False Front that David Lynch might Enjoy Wondering About. A Moody, Lethargic Piece of Cinema that is Great to Look at and not so Great to Understand. A Bloodless Thriller that is Anemic Art and a Precision Picture that is Against the Grain of these Things. "},{"Title":"Williams Sells It","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams, one of the funniest people on the planet, has made a career of playing some very unpleasant people. In this one, he works at a Fotomat (now nearly extinct) and become the stalker of a family that brings their films to him for development. Not only does he stalk them, he knows everything about them, their birthday parties, their fights, their sporting events, etc. Of course, at some point he is going to inject himself into their lives. Fortunately, the scrip writers used some restraint and made this play out the way it should have (I won't' spoil this for you). Suffice it to say that the trip is a scary one and we can't help but feel our flesh creep a bit. We also are made aware of his loneliness and his dysfunctional existence. He is a multidimensional figure, as quirky as one can get. After seeing The Social Network recently, I have to also say that we have created a societal voyeurism in our culture. This further shows how fragile our privacy is and how we are willing to sell it to the highest bidder. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved One Hour Photo! It's one of the best suspense films I've ever seen. Everything about the movie works to perfection...the acting, writing, directing, cinematography and score...all top-notch! I don't want to give away too much about the movie because masterpieces aren't made every day. I absolutely recommend checking this movie out...Robin Williams does an excellent job of totally disappearing into character, in a type of role we're not used to seeing him play. Splendid! Do yourself a favor, get a hold of a copy of this movie as soon as possible! It's well worth it, I promise you! "},{"Title":"Simply Excellent","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo was possibly one of the most interesting movies I've watched. I don't know exactly what it is, but this movie was just really good. Before this movie, I never considered the fact that the people at a one hour photo place looked through our lives, saw the places we've been, and the people we've encountered. To me, the thought doesn't make the workers creepy, but their jobs in general feel quite invasive. This film also made me realize that we, as a society, can be very blind to those who we take for granted. For example, Sy the photo guy is clearly obsessed with Nina and her family, yet Nina just sees it as a passion for what he does. She just doesn't notice all the little things Sy does for her. Instead, she simply takes it as quality customer service. Is she naïve, blind, or just uncaring towards this meek, insignificant photo guy? Robin Williams does a fantastic job portraying the inner psyche of a scared (and creepily meticulous) young boy who is trapped inside an awkward adult. "}{"Title":"Williams is great in this psychological thriller...","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have always admired Robin Williams as a comedian and as a comic actor. He has equally impressed me in a dramatic role, and, to me, this is one of his finest performances of this type. The trouble with someone like Williams is that he has a famous (or infamous if you like) past and you tend to remember him for those things. But if you can see the character beyond the actor then you're most likely going to enjoy the performance a lot more.Seymour Parrish works in the one hour photo processing department of the SavMart store. He has worked there for many years and has seen many customers come and go, but one family, the Yorkin's have been coming back for ten years. They are Nina and Will and their nine year old son Jakob. Unfortunately for them, Seymour, or Sy as he prefers to be called, has become very attached to them through their photos over the years. So much so that he even fantasises about being a member of this perfect family. After an unfortunate event at work and while processing some photos Sy discovers that the Yorkin's are not as perfect as he imagined. As you can probably imagine, this does not go down too well with Sy. I won't say any more so as not to give any spoilers.A really well made film that I found quite atmospheric in places. A great performance from Robin Williams as Seymour Parrish, I really felt he nailed the part! Also worthy of note were; Connie Nielsen as Nina Yorkin, Michael Vartan as Will Yorkin, Dylan Smith as Jakob Yorkin, Erin Daniels as Maya Burson and Gary Cole as Bill Owens.There is a really great commentary all about photographs and what they mean to people that follows through the first two thirds of the film. It is read by Robin Williams as Sy and it really adds character to the film. Although not perfect, I did really enjoy this film and in particular Robin William's performance. Over all, a tight psychological thriller that does what it says on the tin&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.1/10 "},{"Title":"An Interesting Watch!","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mark Romanek's 'One Hour Photo' is an interesting watch, due to it's morbid yet absorbing story. Being a psychological thriller, it offers some chilling, creepy & disturbing moments on the way.'One Hour Photo' tells the story of Sy Parrish, played by Robin Williams, a mini-lab photo technician at SavMart's one-hour photo developing clinic in suburban Los Angeles, who becomes obsessed with a young suburban family.Twisted from the very beginning, Mark Romanek's writing & direction is chilling, creepy, but yet absorbing. The only shortcoming comes in it's finale. The portions come out half-baked and leave you in double-thoughts. Cinematography Jeff Cronenweth is good. Editing by Jeffrey Ford, is sharp.Performance-Wise Robin Williams rules the show with a natural & effective performance. He proves his range as an actor yet again by playing such a morbid & disturbing character. Michael Vartan & Connie Nielsen are excellent. Dylan Smith is just right. Gary Cole leaves a mark. Others lend the required support.On the whole, apart from a half-baked & questionable culmination, this psychological thriller deserves a look. "},{"Title":"A Neat Compact Thriller","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A well crafted, low budget, psychological thriller that succeeds because of its' restraint. Robin Williams stars as a middle aged single loner, Si Parrish, who works in the photo development lab at a supermarket. He lives his life dealing with memento's of events which others wish to remember, their photographs. But is it to replace that which he wishes to forget? Williams is terrific. Quiet, creepy, with just a hint of menace and violence he insidiously works his way into the lives of a perfect couple, possibly replacing his own less than perfect past life, past and present, with theirs.Connie Neilsen and Michael Vartan play as husband and wife , Nina and Will Yorkin whose superficially attractive life collapses as Parrish finds the cracks. The sets are limited, mainly a shopping mall, the Yorkin's home, and a Hotel giving the feel of a stage play, and it is the script, the words, the dialogue which dominate.The final act is strong, yet still Director and writer Mark Romanek pulls his punches. The sexual dimension which could easily have been gratuitously exploited, isn't. The violence which simmers under the surface is not fully realised. The only truly unexplored element is why he surrenders everything in a Pyhrric victory. Photographic, framing and picture allusions abound both obvious, and subtle, and the one and a half hour running time is perfect for the story. Romaneks previous work has been mainly with Music Video which will have helped with the stylised presentation and limited sets, but to his credit he also shows an ability to tell an extended narrative outside of his milieu.Although this falls short on the sex and violence and edge of your seat tension stakes, it is nonetheless satisfying in its own right and can be looked back on with pride by all involved. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review One Hour Photo","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I grew up with Robin Williams movies in a way, watching him on the telly with his Mork and Mindy series when I was a kid, and following almost all his films should they make it to the big screen here. Everyone knows he's quite the live wire comedian, so it's probably groundbreaking each time he gravitates towards more dramatic, serious fare such as Dead Poets Society and The Night Listener, with even rarer turns as negative characters, such as that in Christopher Nolan's Insomnia, and One Hour Photo.Written and directed by Mark Romanek, the film has as a central character, somebody in the background, easily forgotten, never a hero and frankly someone that we don't really care about unless we know them personally prior. Robin Williams junks his jokey side, and plays a quiet loner who works at a megamart as the one-hour photo lab tech guy who processes your photographs. Yes it's Year 2002, so cameras of the digital type were not that prevalent, and surely a film with a premise of this nature probably can no longer use this setting because it doesn't exist, at least not in a widespread manner. If you, like me, have seen the demise of this part of the photo industry, may have a tinge of sadness since you're likely to have built up some keen rapport with the person who through the development of your film, likely to have entered your personal circle of trust.And part of the brilliance of the film is how detailed it is to show how films were processed back then, from the small film roll into negatives on which photographs get printed on. William's Seymour Sy Parrish narrates this delicate process, which tells us his personality and his approach in life, chillingly meticulous and taking pride in his profession to deliver the best of his services, where memorizing facts and figures of his customers seem to be part of his edge in delivering customer service, never betraying that hint of misappropriation where he siphons off extra prints of the Yorkin family photos to feed his obsession.Working 11 years on the same job, he has seen the Yorkins - husband Will (Michael Vartan), wife Nina (Connie Nielsen) and son Jakob (Dylan Smith) grow in the community, and they soon become his family of choice, a unit that he craves for but knows he has missed the boat and can never enjoy what this family has in its ties. So the next best thing is to creepily collect mementos, and plots to be as close as he can to members of the family, stalking Nina even and trying extremely hard to connect at any level through a little bit of ingenious social engineering.A lesser story will have this degenerate into something of the Fatal Attraction kind, exploiting Sy's loneliness into something dangerous and threatening the family direct. But here's where Romanek's story succeeds in providing a breath of fresh air, where that tinge of danger becomes a suspenseful thriller, keeping us constantly wondering just what sort of edge does Sy get pushed over, and rolling his disgraceful past into the mix as well in one fell swoop, in desiring his utopia of what a family is to be maintained at that virginal level, keeping it perfect.It didn't go down the road of the mediocre or the typical, but kept things open especially in the final moments of conversation between Sy and detective Van Der Zee (Eriq La Salle), where we get the rug pulled from under our feet, yet allowing things to swing either way, depending on whether we desire to sympathize with Sy, or prefer that it be something more bleak than it already is. One thing's for sure though, with the advent of technology, the potential for something like this has moved from the photo-studio where a select few employees have privy to the photos you send for development, or this gets unwittingly revealed through the lack of securing our digital photos on social networking sites.Robin Williams is a one man tour de force, and he disappears effortlessly into the role, hidden behind the shy, lonely facade, becoming somewhat of an an eerie avenging angel type who sees his utopia being destroyed, and wants to do something about it. And the misc-en- scene gets carefully crafted to support this, from the music, sets and the spot on creation of mood that gets to crawl under your skin. His performance alone is astounding, and he totally owned the role and made this film come alive. Watch this to see what Robin Williams can do outside of comedy, and for Mark Romanek story and dare in taking Williams out of his comfort zone. Recommended! "},{"Title":"A Picture Is Indeed Worth 1,000 Words","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Very well thought out storyline, an insight into the mechanics of photography and a performance worth every penny.Robin Williams plays his best antagonist character yet. Dark psychological thriller, we view a man who has mixed his occupation with his obsession.Without giving much of the plot away, I recommend this film to you. It will leave you with a slightly disturbing feeling..something along the lines of I'll think twice the next time i decide to snap images with a role of film, who knows what kind of maniac will be waiting at the store counter 10 out of 10, no complaints, great directing/editing/soundtrack "},{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One hour photo is a movie about an obsessed photo technician with no personal live. He spends his years trying to compensate the emptiness inside of him by pretending that the people on the photos are part of his live.Robin Williams plays the role of an apparently dangerous psychopath very well. You see most of the movie from his special point of view. But his appearance is way too strong and any other actor in the movie is being pushed in the background. So there's the movie, there's him and that's pretty much all there is.The movie also lacks of a good solution in the ending. You don't learn what happened with him after his arrestment. Most possibly he was admit to a psychiatric hospital, but maybe he would have gotten away with less, since no one got actually hurt.However, to see him in such a serious role was interesting for a change. And he played well. Good enough for 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Worth to watch...","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You gotta love this movie for its strong drama. Williams is powerful in his role of a psychopath. Bizarre role for him... but he proved in the past to be as good of a comedian as a dramatist. In fact, the whole cast is well directed by Romanek.The movie is not meant to be fully packed with action, ridiculous bloody killings, meaningless story, super power special effects, explosions, etc.Anyone with a minimum of taste for a good drama thriller story will enjoy this movie. For anyone who is serious about rating a movie, it can't go below than 6/10. I can understand that some viewers didn't like this kind of movie... but it can't be 1/10. Come on! But I respect those idiots! "},{"Title":"Solid thriller","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can sympathize for all the photo developers who were put out of business by digital cameras, one of the many thoughts that entered my mind when the film was over. Robin William's plays one such developer in a plot that owes much to Hitchcock, but avoids falling into the trap of ripping him off. That, plus a little emotion, and a great dramatic performance from Williams deliver a fine thriller, occasionally flawed, but I can easily recommend it.The key to the film's effectiveness is of course its subtlety, which is broken in the finale a little bit, but it doesn't harm the drama. Robin Williams can get tiring as a comedian, but his dramatic roles are always solid, (Good Will Hunting, Insomnia, The Night Listener). Here he is deliciously creepy. In the same way that kids are scared of Grandma cause they don't wanna get smooched, there is something very intimidating about the pacifism and extreme pleasantness of Williams' character in this motion picture. Part of it of course has to do, with the fact that it becomes increasingly obvious that he is more than a little bit nuts.I was told that this film was generally panned, which I find a bit hard to believe. Yes, it has its faults, and to some the plot may feel stagy and hard to accept, but I liked the film a lot for what it was. If you want a good thriller, be sure to check out One Hour Photo. "},{"Title":"Decent Stalker Movie Where Williams Shines","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was going through the OnDemand movie listings one night, looking for a movie to watch. Under the Deranged Thrillers section, I found One Hour Photo. I saw Robin Williams as the lead, and immediately I was drawn to watch the movie. After having watched it, I found it to be a decent stalker movie, saved by the acting of Robin Williams.Robin Williams is truly one of the most underrated all-around actors in Hollywood. He always brings intensity and passion to his roles, as evidenced in _Good Will Hunting (1997)_, _Dead Poets Society (1989)_, and even _Insomnia (2002/I)_. As in those, in _One Hour Photo (2002)_, he saves the movie with his intense demeanor, making his character seem more realistic, and much more creepy. The supporting role players weren't bad, but I feel without Robin Williams, this movie would not have the same feel. I would recommend this movie to anybody who enjoy thrillers with the bonus of a great character actor (Robin Williams) playing the deranged lead.Overall, I found it to be a decent thriller, but I give Robin William's performance an A+.7/10 "},{"Title":"...just about okay..","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well the film is not a masterpiece or something but an average thriller if you wanna say ,for the most part Robin William's performance saves the day,seeing him in a thriller sounds interesting & is a rare phenomena.The film is about an employee at a photo developing center who becomes obsessed with a family which makes him take a step further,the film is not some spine chilling or gory thriller but makes an impression at some levels,to be honest the film is better at times but falls a bit short at other,so in brief i would say the film deserves respect and a look due to William's excellent portrayal as a disturbed guy and so its something of a subtle thriller to pass your 100 minutes or so... "}{"Title":"Excellent performance by Robin Williams","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An up and coming writer and director, Mark Romanek, wrote and directed the 2002 film, One Hour Photo starring Robin Williams. Williams plays Sy, a deeply disturbed man who runs the photo development booth at a discount store. He is obsessed with the Yorkin family, whose photos he has been developing since the son, Jake, was an infant. Having no life of his own, Sy parks his car outside the Yorkin house, runs into Mrs. York at a mall food court, and makes extra copies of their photos for his wall at home. Then he discovers, through another customer's photos, that Mr. Yorkin (Alias star Michael Vartan) is having an affair.There is a surprising lack of dialogue in this film and some very stark cinematography, which points up Sy's isolation in the world. The film is very well done.One quibble I have is when Sy's boss (Gary Cole) questions Sy about the discrepancy in prints sold versus the excessive amount of prints made by the AGFA machine. Given how long Sy has been making extra copies, it seems strange that someone is just noticing this now.Williams' acting is excellent, proving again that many comics can do drama very well. Eriq LaSalle, formerly of E.R. plays a police detective.Without Romanek's fine touches, this would have been on the level of a Lifetime TV movie. Thanks to his sense of style, it isn't. "},{"Title":"The best character portrait since Taxi Driver.","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams gives a very good, albeit surprisingly scary performance here. He plays Sy, a very lonely and psychologically damaged man who works as a photo developer at a local chain store, he becomes completely obsessed with what he perceives as the perfect family. Visually, it is simplistic but also striking, there is a hint of hyper-realism in the general look of the film. Robin Williams can give a very good dramatic performance when he is given a good script, but in this film he goes to a completely different level. He literally transforms into Sy, and the result is a weak, although dangerous character who we genuinely feel sorry for.I am not sure if anyone has made this comparison before me, but when I watch this film, it reminds me a little bit of Taxi Driver, both Travis and Sy are lonely, their motivations are completely different of course, but both these films are essentially character portraits that deal with loneliness. The supporting cast give reasonably good performances but Williams truly carries the movie.In closing, this film is far from being the best of all time, but it is a great film nonetheless and I recommend it to people who liked Taxi Driver. "},{"Title":"Terrifying","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thrillers are most effective when they slowly build the tension. It may seem slow at first, but by the end the tension is so potent that the viewer will be unable to move. One Hour Photo is like that, and the lion's share of the credit has to go to Robin Williams.Sy Parrish (Robin Williams) is an extremely lonely man who works at the One Hour Photo store at the SavMart (think WalMart). His only moments of happiness are when the Yorkins come to drop off and pick up their photos. But Sy's affections aren't just because he's a nice guy, he is obsessed with them, imagining himself as Uncle Sy. But Sy is also very unstable, and any crack could make him dangerous.Robin Williams made a career in comedy, but he also has a great talent for drama. This is easily his best performance. Sy is anti-social to the extreme, but we can also see a bit of ourselves in him. All of our insecurities feelings of loneliness are present and exaggerated in him. The other cast members are great, but this film belongs to Williams.Mark Romanek is a a terrific director. The film is perfectly paced, and the tension builds to a nearly unbearable level. But the film's look, helped by cinematographer Jeff Cronenweth, is one of this film's most unique and helpful attributes. The too-bright lights of the store, the use of pastels (especially white) and the overly positive jargon of big corporations, is all reminiscent of Wal-Mart. Yet, there is also a tone of darkness underneath it all, and that helps increase the tension. Lighting in a thriller hasn't been used this well in any other movie I have seen next to the The Descent. This is a bold and terrifying thriller. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Robin Williams moves away from comedy into much darker territory and delivers his finest performance.","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fist off I have to say I have never been much of a Robin Williams fan and I am not really into these warm and funny family movies that he usually makes. I really was interested to see this movie though, after viewing Insomnia and seeing what he could do in a darker serious role.I have to say Robin Williams performance as Sy the photo guy is truly outstanding. He elicits sympathy from the audience and really is a towering presence in terms of his acting throughout the film.The Yorkin Family played decently by Michael Vartan, Connie Nielsen & Dylan Smith are integral to the plot and each gives convincing if not outstanding performance, after all the film centres around Sy and his obsessive behaviour. Gary Cole as Sy's boss is okay, and he helps in pushing Sy over the edge.Also I have to applaud the fledgling movie director Mark Romanek, his minimalist approach to the sets and Robin Williams appearance paired with the very dark material worked exceptionally well. The sombre and thoughtful mood of this piece is great as it moves slowly but very deliberately through the story and covering some disturbing territory.This is a truly masterfully directed and acted movie and credit goes to the pairing of Romanek and Williams in pulling this off. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mark Romanek snaps Robin Williams' mind","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lonely department store One Hour Photo guy Robin Williams (as Seymour Sy Parrish) lives vicariously through the pictures he develops for what seems like the perfect family Full frontal father Michael Vartan (as William Will Yorkin), beautiful wife Connie Nielsen (as Nina Yorkin), and their cute nine-year-old son Dylan Smith (as Jakob Jake Yorkin). Soon, Mr. Williams is stalking the family; he watches young Smith play baseball, meets Ms. Nielsen at the Galleria food mart for lunch, and parks his car outside their home after work. When Williams discovers Mr. Vartan may not be the world's best father, he goes Psycho.Excellent direction by Mark Romanek, complimented by Williams' creepy performance; this film succeeds in maintaining a quiet, mostly suggestive horror throughout. There are some ways it could be tighter. Some examples Maya's pictures (who took them?) should have been suggestive solo shots of the couple, which Williams intends to unite in the hotel room. Jake's perceptions about Sy are alluded to early on, but never expanded; they are confirmed by an excellent point-of-view shot of Williams' car in his rear view mirror. There is no follow-up. This should have been the moment the boy convinces his mother the man is a dangerous stalker. And, while The Day the Earth Stood Still is a great old movie, why not substitute one that compliments Sav-Mart, like Invasion of the Body Snatchers? ******* One Hour Photo (1/13/02) Mark Romanek ~ Robin Williams, Michael Vartan, Connie Nielsen "},{"Title":"Solid Psychological Thriller","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 2002 Robin Williams moved away from comedy acting, going towards more serious roles in One Hour Photo and Insomnia. He should have stayed doing these sorts of roles.One Hour Photo is a story of obsession and loneliness, about a sad man who just craves acceptations. The plot of the film is about Sy (Robin Williams), a man who works in SavMart (a Walmart/KMart type department store) on the photo booth. Sy is a man who takes great pride in his work and likes to get to know his customers. There is one family he takes a particular interest in, the Yorkins. During the film he becomes more obsessed, making his own copies of their photos, looking at them when he can, placing them on the wall of his flat and even said that he is an uncle to Jake, the son of the family. He is obsessed because he sees them as the prefect family and wants to be apart of it. He goes to such extremes to stalk the family, and fantasises being apart it. However, he discovers that the family isn't as prefect as he first thought, and he world falls apart, losing his job and sets out to get revenge.As I said, the main themes of the film are obsession and lonely. Robin Williams and writer/director Mark Romanek show this very effectively, and very real. It was very believable. On the outside Sy seemed like a nice friendly man, who just cared about people. However he really is seeking acceptation and company. Slowly during the film Sy becomes more psycho. Mark Romanek did a very good writing job and his director showed skill. They were good acting performances from Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, Gary Cole and Dylan Smith. However, most of my praise has to go to Robin Williams who does give a very chilling performance and should do more serious roles. Some scenes were unconformable to watch, but that was the reaction that the audience is meant to feel. The film does loose it a little in the final act, but I feel Romanek did handle the film well and it works well. I recommend it if you like this type of him. "},{"Title":"One of the best psychological horror films I've seen","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is a very underrated movie that deserves more credit than it often seems to get. Robin Williams is just fantastic as Sy, and definitely deserved an Oscar nomination. His chilling performance really made the movie. He is a very sympathetic character, alternating between detachment and forceful anger. The direction and supporting cast were very good, if not great. The dialogue was well done, and the use of contrasting colors added to the film's intense atmosphere. If you like psychological horrors, or just good movies, give this one a shot.I give One Hour Photo a strong 8/10. I have it as #93 on my top 100 list. If you liked this one, definitely check out Kubrick's 'The Shining' and try 'Panic Room'. "},{"Title":"Little Man, What Now?","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In her novel The Death of the Heart Elizabeth Bowen wrote Not for nothing do we invest so much of ourselves in other people's lives- or even in momentary pictures of people we do not know. It cuts both ways; the happy group inside the lighted window, the figure in the long grass in the orchard seen from the train stay and support us in our dark hours. One-Hour Photo is a film about someone who invests almost all of himself in other people's lives. Sy Parrish works behind the photo counter of a large suburban supermarket and has spent the last twenty years of his life developing other people's snapshots. Sy is a lifelong bachelor, with no wife, family or romantic interest in his life. His one passion seems to be for his job, which he takes very seriously, doing his utmost to ensure that every customer receives a perfect set of photographs. He prides himself that his laboratory is the best mini-lab in the state, and his philosophy can perhaps be summed up in the following words- And if these pictures have anything important to say to future generations, it's this I was here. I existed. I was young, I was happy, and someone cared enough about me in this world to take my picture. Sy might seem like the perfect employee, but there is a darker side to his character. He has formed a great attachment to one particular family, the Yorkins- handsome dad Will, pretty young mom Nina and their cute young son Jake. He does not just see the family as customers- he has befriended them and appointed himself their Uncle Sy. What the Yorkins do not know is that Sy has, over a number of years, been making an extra copy of every photograph they have brought in to him to develop and has been using these copies to decorate his flat, where he has several hundred images of them stuck to one wall. In Sy's eyes the Yorkins are the family he never had, his one source of happiness in his humdrum existence. And then, suddenly, his life changes. He is sacked from his job and- even worse for his peace of mind- discovers that Will is cheating on Nina with another woman.The film, superficially, falls within the stalker genre which was popularised in the late eighties and early nineties by films like Fatal Attraction and Single White Female. When Sy discovers that his adopted family are less perfect than he had imagined, the emotional world he has constructed for himself is destroyed, and he decides to seek revenge. Unlike many stalker films, however, One Hour Photo contains a strong satirical element; it can be seen as a satire on suburban life not unlike American Beauty. The Yorkins are an All-American suburban family so eerily perfect they could be taken straight out of a commercial. Although the film was shot in the Los Angeles area, the identikit homes and shopping malls could be set in the suburbs of virtually any American city. This idea of suburban conformity is emphasised by the film's bland and impersonal visual look. We can all think of films (Girl with a Pearl Earring and Far from Heaven are two recent examples) where virtually every shot looks like a painting. One Hour Photo, with its hard, glossy look and vivid primary colours is a film where virtually every shot looks like a family snapshot. What surprised me most about this picture was not seeing Robin Williams playing a villain, as I had previously seen him in Insomnia (also made in 2002) and as a fanatical anarchist in The Secret Agent. What surprised me was seeing Robin Williams playing an introvert, as I had always associated him with brash extroverts, such as the motormouth DJ Adrian Cronauer in Good Morning Vietnam, or the inspirational teacher in Dead Poets Society, or the eccentric actor who disguises himself as his own children's nanny in Mrs Doubtfire. Here, however, he is completely different. Sy is the archetypal grey, anonymous little man, a reclusive, working-class, middle-aged bachelor, hardly noticed by the rest of society. His name Sy is not short for Simon but rather Seymour, a pun on see more. Others may overlook him, but his job enables him to see rather more of their lives than they might wish, and it is this which gives him a surprising amount of power. Even though this part is so different from the sort of roles I have come to associate with Williams, it is nevertheless one of his best. Unlike some characters in stalker films, Sy is never allowed to appear simply as a villain. He may be a creepy, dangerous obsessive, hovering on the brink of madness, but we are never allowed to forget that he is human. Williams and writer/director Mark Romanek portray him with sympathy and compassion. He is perhaps one of the casualties of the suburban lifestyle, a man whose obsessions have their roots in loneliness and in alienation from the privileged, seemingly picture-perfect lifestyle of families like the Yorkins. Watching Williams's brilliant portrayal of this alienated loner, the question that came to mind was the one originally posed by the German writer Hans Fallada in 1932, one year before Hitler's rise to power, Kleiner Mann, was nun? Little man, what now? 8/10 "},{"Title":"the darker side of robin williams","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I never thought that Robin Williams of all people could pull off this role, well i was amazed at how un Robin Williams like he was in this,, i mean he's a standup comedian by nature,, Mork $ Mindy,, i grew up with that,, then you had Insomnia, Night Listener,, so yeah i really liked this one a lot . the premise of a story based on a One Hour Photo guy, heck i ain't never seen that done before,, so kudos to the writers,, director , producer, and the studio for picking something fresh and different for a change.. the movie paced very well,, i loved the sexual undertones during the movie,, some of the quotes are keepers too, i love the one where Robin Williams' characters says,, someone actually cared enough to take this photo of me... that is very deep.and of course the Oxford English Dictionary quote,, i love how the young boy seems to figure Sy out.. when no one else really can. this film was eerie,, kinda creepy,, but very interesting, and definitely one of a kind,, a big thumbs up,, especially for Robin Williams.. "},{"Title":"A remarkable character study.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A remarkably character study. The film is a slow building piece that leads up to the final, surprising revelation. The entire time I was wondering what drove this man to become such a loner, living vicariously through this seemingly perfect family and when we finally get the answer, I just sat in numbed silence. It's very rare when a film can shock me to the core and just leave me laying there, numb, throughout the entire experience. I was being knowingly haunted yet I couldn't do anything to stop what was happening. Everything about the film, from Williams' shockingly horrifying (in a good way) performance to the frightening, atmospheric score. I really can't begin to describe how much this film shook the core of me. I can rarely think of a time where I was so disturbed by something so subtle. They could have made the ending some outrageously huge deal, but they made it subtle and realistic. In the end you can't do anything but pity this character and sympathize for him. He's just a man who was wrecked and deeply disturbed in his childhood which led him to such an alienated life. Being this photo processor allowed him to live vicariously through what he believed to be the perfect family. But of course no family is perfect and when he loses this perfect image of them, it throws him over the edge in one of the most disturbing displays of a deranged mind I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"creepy!!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this for the 2nd time last night and it changed my mind. First, I thought it was another really good Robin Williams flick, but the 2nd time I saw it, it was confusing, weird and did a really good job making Williams look really creepy. I actually wondered why an actor like him would be inclined to even accept the role? The director did a good job making this guy seem like the biggest loner. When he got fired from his job at the SavMart, what was he dumping into the bin when he was paged over the intercom? and how did he find out his boss' address in order to take pictures of his daughter playing with a toy? Also, how did he find out Mr. Yorkin was staying in that hotel room getting ready to do the redhead? Couple thing I didn't understand? Also, his escape from the hotel was horrible! As soon as he saw that security guard at the front, he got scared. "},{"Title":"Brilliant slow-paced movie!","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just have to say that this film is something else. Not your average high-budgeted movie with no plot, but rather the opposite low-budgeted movie with a deep plot and great performances, particularly of Robin Williams. I never thought of watching Patch Addams as a deranged photo technician! LOLI was thrilled by what happened with the main character, Sy, and sometimes wondered what is it like to feel that lonely. Should the filmmakers have included more of Sy's past? But in the end, these details are what make this film spectacular to experience.I'm still wondering why Sy requested to see such pictures at the end of the film. That's something everyone wonders when leaving the theater, I guess.Great film, specially if you like independent films. "},{"Title":"It'll make you think twice about getting your photos developed...","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mark Romanek is a successful music video director who is making his first leap to feature film with this intriguing, albeit slow-paced, character study. The film revolves around Seymour 'Sy' Parrish, a one-hour photo clerk harboring a dangerous obsession with the Yorkin family, whose photos he has developed for many years. The last person I would have foreseen being cast in the role of Sy would have been Robin Williams, a man known primarily for his off-the-wall, cartoonish performances. After having watched this movie, I can picture no other actor wearing the blue Sav-Mart vest. The character of Sy is a very restrained, emotionally warped individual and this role shows the range of Williams's skill. Sy is probably one of the more fascinating characters in recent years. Despite his creepy, overbearing, and occasionally threatening behavior, it's hard not to sympathize with him and his obvious struggle for acceptance.Another aspect of this film I really enjoyed was the visual style brought to it by the cinematographer, Jeff Cronenweth. I loved the sterilized feel of the hyper-white aisles in Sav-Mart and the use of green and red filtered lights in some of Sy's scenes. In my opinion, this is probably one of the most aesthetically appealing movies from 2002.My only real complaint with the movie is the slow-pacing. There were points near the middle of the film where it almost felt like came to a complete stop. It didn't help that there were some scenes that seemed completely out-of-place and interrupted the film's flow (i.e. I still don't understand the relevance of Sy's nightmare). Thankfully, what the film lost with its pacing it made up for with its casting. Connie Nielsen, Michael Vartan, and Dylan Smith have great chemistry as the Yorkin family, the object of Sy's attention. Gary Cole (Bill Lumbergh from 'Office Space') has a minor role as the manager of the Sav-Mart and Eriq La Salle (of 'ER') makes an appearance as an agent of the local Threat Management Unit. And, of course, Robin Williams's fantastic performance as the disturbed one-hour photo clerk.This film brings us unseen depth from Robin Williams and a compelling story from a first-time filmmaker. The pro's heavily outweigh the con's in this independent gem and make it worth at least one good viewing. "},{"Title":"Good but still Hollywood.....","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" My grown-up kids keep objecting to my taste for foreign, French and Italian movies, in particular. I keep telling them that main stream Hollywood movies are rarely subtle... they hit you on the head on all fronts, visual and musical etc. etc. A good example of that is Photo. It is not a bad film but after the first 10 minutes you know where it is heading and from there on there is no escaping the stock characters, the stock situations and the stock explanations. Too bad because there is good acting and clever sets. Also, the last minute redeems the movie a tad because the ending, while using a rather hackneyed explanation for the hero's behavior still leaves us puzzled as to what the final resolution of this story is. This is not a bad thing as it gives the viewers further entertainment and mind stretching as they write their own scenarios after the curtain has fallen and the movie is discussed over coffee.... "},{"Title":"Comparing One Hour Photo with Evangelion...","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo has something to deal with depression and some sexuality in it. However, this movie has one thing in relation to it, the animé Neon Genesis Evangelion.So, you see Jake wanting a toy he wanted a Mass-Produced EVA. Sy states to Jake that he's one of the good guys, however, in the movie End of Evangelion, they are really not.Sy, I'm guessing, is suffering from depression during this movie, and therefore is in some relation to Evangelion's Shinji Ikari (in which GAINAX's Hideaki Anno had suffered, therefore creating an animé with the main character with depression).Also in this movie, we see Sy resting and having a dream with endless shelves... eventually a scary sight with the eyes bleeding profusely. Then seconds later, the Mass-Produced EVA is standing on a nightstand. Think of End of Evangelion, where Asuka Langley gets speared with the Spear of Longinus into her EVA's left eye, where she feels the pain. This spear, before transforming into Longinus (which the real one is on the Moon), was the weapon that the action figure has in hand, therefore the action figure is truly a bad guy, not a good guy.As Williams said in the commentary on the DVD, Evangelion is one of his most favorite animé... and the figure is one of his own from his personal collection.For being an EVA and Williams fan, this gets some serious attention and thought. 10/10 I give it. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, Challenging, Inspired Piece Of Cinema","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Review BreakdownPerformances 5 StarsStoryline 4 StarsMusic 5 StarsCinematography 5 Stars Dialogue, Script, And Actions 5 StarsTilt 5 StarsGenre Thriller (Psychological) Production IndependentRobin Williams stars as Sy Parrish in this truly unique film revolving around a socially poor photo-lab technician. Watch as Sy pretends to be a part of a family which he has barely met, and simply develops pictures for.Williams's performance, in addition to a smattering of terrific actors, working on a subtle and powerful script make this one of those rare films which you simply can't stop watching. As Sy's dellusions begin to come to fruition later in the film, the audience is granted a unique perspective which allows them to make their own moral judgements about the themes of preciousness and fortune the film argues, in addition to questioning Sy's reactions to them.SEE THIS FILM IF- You like a great story- You can handle a challenging and complex narrative- You love darker plots- You're a fan of independent cinemaAVOID THIS FILM IF- You love big-budget blockbusters and nothing else- You hated Crash (2005)- You like films to be fun-filled and entertaining onlyI think most people would love this film - its complex themes and narratives are delivered in a simple, easy to follow way, equipping you to come to your own reactions to this, brilliant, film.VOTE 10/10 (Truly Fantastic) "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that leaves you thinking","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was drawn to one hour photo simply because i saw Robin Williams name under it in the TV guide. After watching this movie I was amazed at Williams performance and the sheer depth of this film. Sy Perish (played by Williams) is a lonely photo finisher who secretly takes a certain families photos and pretending that they are his family. This film is not particularly easy to watch but keeps you drawn to it until the end. Robin Williams was excellent in this role proving that he's not just a one trick pony and has very impressive acting skills that make the film all the more believable and enjoyable. As you watch his character throughout the film you don't know what to feel for him. Sad or Sick. "},{"Title":"Sy the good guy","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps most people got this movie as a cynical psychological thriller (which it most certainly is), but I was surprised that practically no one mentioned or recognized its truly important constant positiveness and overall moral message. This picture-like movie to me was a reminder of how good a life I live, of how good I really have it going. It reminded me that I fail to understand and appreciate this on a daily basis, that I fail to recognize that the warmness of my home, the love from people around me and the overall good that is the result of all this, is something I neglect and pay very little attention to. As did the picture-perfect family in this movie. And here is where the true meaning of One hour photo lies it's not a story about a psychotic, neglected and non-social little man that took comfort in pretending to live a different life. It's about showing how even the ones that have it perfect don't always know how much they should be thankful for it...and in some cases even mess it up completely. The more I think about it, the more I actually see Sy as a sort of personified, flesh & bone guarding angel. The soft and white tones of his hair, clothes, car and apartment further help make my point. When at the end of the movie he actually got into the position where he could have committed a serious crime, he instead punished the swindling couple by giving them both the lesson of their lives and left without a sense of guilt whatsoever. And as crazy as it sounds(even to me at this very moment), he was almost entitled to do what he did. Throughout the whole movie he was the voice of everybody that is less fortunate, of people that suffer through their lives and hope and dream of living a better one (hence his immense obsession with the Yorkins), and he was more than justified to act he merely gave a reminder, nothing more and nothing less... ...It's a reminder that I'll need to be taught over and over again to respect, love and appreciate what I've got. Kissing the ground I walk on should become my daily habit!)7/10 The movie I can compare this one the most is definitely Hard Candy, especially for the very real and possible story, as well as for the immensely brilliant aesthetics and detailed perfection of them both.Highly recommended, especially on a very laid-back night. "},{"Title":"A chillingly plausible and absorbing thriller","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams gives a remarkably bold, subtle and stunning performance as sad and socially maladjusted convenience store worker Sy The Photo Guy Parrish. Sy has an unhealthy fixation on the seemingly perfect Yorkin family loving mother Nina (a fine Connie Nielson), faithless, neglectful husband Will (the solid Michael Vartan), and sweet son Jacob (adorable Dylan Smith). When Sy gets fired from his job and discovers that Will has been cheating on Nina, his idealized perception of the Yorkins gets destroyed and he goes off the deep end into total despair and madness. Writer/director Mark Romanek relates the chilling and arresting story with exceptional precision and assurance; he does an especially expert job of vividly evoking a totally mundane and believable everyday working class reality which in turn makes the considerable suspense that much more powerful and gut-wrenching. Moreover, the central theme about violation of privacy and how loneliness can cause someone to go crazy adds additional resonance and even poignancy to the plot. Williams' astonishingly complex portrayal of the creepy, anal and obsessive, yet tragic and pitiable Sy holds the picture together and keeps things engrossing throughout. Kudos are also in order for the sterling supporting cast Gary Cole as mean and overbearing store manager Bill Owens, Eriq La Salle as diligent detective James Van Der Zee, and Erin Daniel as Will's fetching mistress Maya Burson. Jeff Cronenworth's sharp, sparkling cinematography and the shuddery, pulsating score by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Kilmek are likewise up to par. A superior thriller. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful drama","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a photo developer taking a special interest in a middle class family, stalking them which causes serious consequences.Despite the slow pacing, the film is very watchable. The soundtrack is great, it really enhances the mood and atmosphere of the film. It intensifies the suspense and the eerie feeling.The plot is told well, it is a simple plot and yet it the ending leaves so much to be analysed. Sy is portrayed to be a lonely man, and he wanted to be a part of a family. However, I am inclined to think that the Yorkin family should have done something when they found Sy in their home, uninvited. Or when Sy approached Jake to shower him with gifts. To me, these are minor imperfections of the plot. "}{"Title":"A Different Side to Robin Williams","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie saw a very different side to Robin Williams.Forget the fun.Forget the humor.Forget the gags.Robin played one creepy bloke in this movie. And he played it well.If you're after Robin's traditional laughs, etc, then forget it! This is not the movie to watch.The creepiest thing I reckon is that I'm sure we've all come across people like this working the counters at our local stores! You just don't know what goes on inside that little brain of theirs.Worth watching at least once to see a different side to Robin's acting. Not sure that I'd watch it over again though.... "},{"Title":"Nobody Takes a Picture of Something They Want to Forget...","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is a very sophisticated twist on the stalker sub-genre that, in its final moments, manages to elicit a fair amount of sympathy for the stalker from the audience. I suppose it's a truism that victims like Sy the Photo Guy eventually become the perpetrators of the crimes to which they were once subjected, but writer/director Mark Romanek is to be applauded for bringing a fresh slant on this fact. Robin Williams, in probably the best performance of his career, achieves just the right degree of contained, buttoned-down creepiness as Sy, a guy we all recognise. Sy's a loner, an invisible man living in a colourless world with only a hamster (as trapped as he is) for company.Well&#133; a hamster and 800-odd snaps of the perfect Yorkin family he has filched from his employers. The Yorkin's family life is that which Sy aspires to, but which he can never have, so he contents himself by enjoying it vicariously through the snaps he develops for them. In their photos he sees a golden-hued utopia, as diametrically opposed from his sad, lonely life as it is possible to get. As his obsession with them threatens to topple over into violence and begins to impact on his own life, Romanek subtly manipulates our emotions and confounds our expectations before devising an ending that manages to satisfy the audience while still leaving loose ends.This is the kind of film you want to watch twice, so that you can pick up on all the clues and subtle hints that are so easily missed on first viewing. "},{"Title":"Just a Little Too Vague","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The acting by Robin Williams was brilliant. He was really engaging as someone who was lonely and no one in his life. His only life was being the photo developer at Save-Mart (obviously, Walmart). He secretly keeps photos of his customers (and knows a lot about them). He loves his job, and is likable with his customers. Trouble begins when he starts delving into the personal life of a family that he has film developed for. Williams' character can't stand the fact that the father is having an affair. He decides to take action in his own hands. After all, in his delusional mind, he is the uncle of the family. The movie really shows how lonely and abandoned someone can be that they have to dream up a family life of their own. Gary Cole plays the boss. He is not likable and a bit too bossy. At one point, Cole tries to bar Williams' from returning to the store after being fired. There was no cause for this at this point. Williams had done nothing yet. The thing I didn't like about this film was that it never really committed to anything. Was he a total nut case without redemption? Did he have an agenda that was important? What was the point of the film? What is the film trying to say? I think the creators of the film were intentionally trying to blur this, because in today's World life is complicated and motives unclear. The best illustration of this blurring is when William's took pictures of his bosses's son and sent them to him. Williams may have been threatening his family, or just simply trying to show that he has power and control. That may have been the point of the movie. It is never entirely clear - people's motives in today's World. The movie could have done a better job though giving the audience a direction to work with. "},{"Title":"Under-developed Picture","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A creepy photo lab technician becomes obsessed with the family of one of his customers, leading to grave consequences. Williams is appropriately creepy yet he seems somewhat mannered and unconvincing in the role. Although it is told primarily from his point of view, we never really learn what motivates Williams to behave in the bizarre ways that he does. The plot is silly and preposterous, including the unconvincing notion that a man would cheat on a babe like Nielsen. What's the point of the flashback structure? It does not help the story in any way. The film is generally entertaining though, and the scenes where Williams imagines himself as Uncle Sy are amusing. "},{"Title":"A revelation","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" We saw this film for the first time on TV the other night. Neither of us has ever been much of a Robin Williams fan, considering his style OTT and unsubtle. But his performance as the quiet Sy Parrish blew us both away. Sy is a lonely man who lives a lonely life in a bare, bland apartment. To give himself the comfort he needs, he 'adopts' (without their knowledge) a local family who always take their photos to his lab in the mall. He makes copies of their photos and displays his favourites on his wall, and he even claims to be related to them. When he finds out (via photos) that the husband is cheating on his wife, he gets mad... This is a very sad film almost all the way through, somewhat reminiscent of Shyamalan's style. Some moments are so touching and acted so well (again amazed at Williams' underplaying) that it can bring a lump to the throat. The end is beautifully done. One to savour. "},{"Title":"I wish I could live in a photo album.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first hour is really absorbing ! Robin Williams gives one of his best performances as a solitary man ,who lives his life vicariously ,when he watches photographs of other people 's joys.Photographs are never taken when something sad happens ;if all that remains from our civilization is some photo albums,then they will think we were always happy.Best scene is perhaps the one when,all in a dream, he gets into the family circle ,sitting on the sofa and watching TV,waiting for a joyful hello how are you uncle Sy? Williams,under his large smile,hides something disturbing,threatening ,and he is more convincing than in his insomnia  part.The last thirty minutes are not on the same level;handicapped by Vartan's lack of presence and Nielsen's underwritten part,the movie becomes déjà vu -which it was not in its original brilliant first hour .Only the final dialog with the cop redeems themyou're a family man,I can tell it by your ring,you are a happy man Why is Sy such a lonely man?why hasn't he got a single friend? A relative?Perhaps his past was too hard to bear and that's why he took refuge in a happiness set for eternity. "},{"Title":"Very good movie. Excellent performance by Robin Williams!!","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie that made a big impression on me! Almost the whole movie is truly excellent. Robin Williams is véry convincing as Sy Parrish, this is the best performance I've ever seen from Robin Williams. Also the rest of the cast is acting good!The movie would have been a masterpiece if the end would have been better. But, it comes close to a masterpiece! This movie is filmed very well, Mark Romanek shows the difference between Sy Parish and the family very effectively by using colours. Very good direction! Also the music is very good! This is a must see! "},{"Title":"Movie making at its finest.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off I was absolutely astonished by Robin Williams performance. In my opinion his best acting yet. The movie does an amazing job of pushing a feeling on you. In parts you just feel uncomfortable watching and creeped out, just wanted to yell, STOP BEING SO WEIRD. The shots the lighting the acting and the music add together to make you get this strong feeling, feeling exactly what the movie wants you to feel when it wants you to feel that way. That being an important part of a movie it does a perfect job, the movie also left me with a kinda memento aftermath feeling after I was done watching it. Leaving me to think about what I had just saw like the movie memento did, thuo probably less strong of a feeling. It gave me that puzzle piece falling together conclusion by the end you just thought about all the little details that all added up it was perfect, like a thousand threads making a perfect piece of cloth. It gave me the same aftermath feel as memento but didn't give me the constant headache memento did through out it, considering the movie was all backwards. For it being a relatively low budget film and a break out for the director it was a perfect piece of art, and should be enjoyed by allot more people. "},{"Title":"A Knockout Thriller!!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" who said people cant make any good thrillers these days...............unlike so many others like this that have failed, this is by far the best thriller for along time!! robin Williams gives one of the most creepiest best performances ever, i had no idea Williams could act to this extant, and the rest of the cast isn't the greatest but still good, shot wonderfully, makes the setting very creepy, like the store Williams works in was greatly made,just everything about it is great!!!!!! its about a very lonely, but nice man who works at a one hour photo lab, who starts to become absolutely obsessed with this family that comes by the lab every once and awhile, and even starts to spy on them, watch them...so if you like clever thrillers you should most definitely watch this amazing thriller, two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Gripping, thought-provoking, excellent music & cinematography","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A superb film - a credit to all concerned, especially the art director who must have gone mad setting up all those snapshots! What I enjoyed most about One Hour Photo is the structure and pacing; people looking for cheap thrills won't get it at all, but it builds on the blatant creepiness of Sy until you really worry about what he's capable of; and the resolution is perfectly sequenced. Eriq LaSalle perfectly underplays the dispassionate 'family man' cop. There's plenty of suggested back story too - it seems as though Sy was a victim of the worst thing you're afraid of ... has already happened, ie kiddy porn in his abusive childhood in this context, which explains his utter social incompetence, yearning for 'proper family' and drive to act out the abuse once again. Why not a 10? Because er, perversely, I think Robin Williams, although impressive beyond what you might expect, is ever so slightly over the top. Many who found it boring have commented that they didn't believe the basic plot premise of a nosey photo guy for a second, and Williams is so very creepy from the start that you do wonder, in an otherwise 'realistic' film, why nobody comments on what an absolute creep he is, though the manager seems glad to be rid of him... I kept thinking of Mrs. Doubtfire (who also wouldn't have fooled a myopic crack addict for a minute). But the unusual premise, superb direction (the escape sequence in the hotel, for example) and excellent soundtrack had me hooked; this film is clearly a cut above as a thriller while addressing a serious issue intelligently. Hitchcock, eat your heart out. "}{"Title":"was he abused as a child?","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" At the end when the detective says i think i understand now ! Did he mean that he though Williams was abused as a child, it seems that way as he became so emotional when he spoke about the dad not treating his family right. But this was a great movie i recommend it it isn't quite up there with Hitchcock but its on its way. Better than insomnia in my mind. a very deep movie with a sterling performance by Williams. I heard nothing of its award wins but it defiantly should have had some, especially one for robin Williams. Although there is one thing still puzzling me. What do all the photographs at the end mean? snapshots. who knows!?!? The direction is brilliant 8/10 "},{"Title":"You will not believe....","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" how excellent Robin Williams is in this film. I am very interested in anything Mark Romanek now directs. Everyone will be interested in this suspense/thriller; for different reasons.Connie Nielsen and Michael Vartan are also very good as the victimized couple. What is interesting is the understated film technique, acting and theme of this film.I was fortunate to have seen the screening for this movie, as well as the director's comments. Cy Parrish (Williams) is a disaffected photo processor in a local Wal-Mart type store. I loved him in this role, yet the fact that he pulled it off is testament to his ability.Connie Nielsen and her son are the objects of obsession for Cy. While nothing is ever completely explained- that is what Romanek has portrayed so brilliantly. This film is like real life in that- you may encounter people every day- yet do not know/assume what they are thinking.Most of the theme is portrayed visually- a brilliant move on Romanek's part. Whatever has happened to Cy as a child, he clearly wishes for a family now- we see the bleak, sad life as he drives home from work in his Ford Focus; he is a reliable decent worker, but something is awry.Gary Cole is amusing as the anal-retentive store manager (similar in Office Space) he tells Cy (a 50+ year old man) people come in to save 10 cents on a pair of socks- this is retail. The true banality of corporate America exposed.Eriq DeLasalle portrays the detective of the Threat Management Unit who investigates Cy.This film is suspenseful, well-acted, and not predictable. Thank you Mark Romanek and all actors involved!. "},{"Title":"Could be a much smaller movie but...","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...it's still a very effective and chilling film!Taking a different variation on the creepy theme from the previous Insomnia,Robin Williams is Sy Parrish,a lonely,mostly(accent mostly)harmless film developer at a Wal-Mart type store. His job allows him to be a sort of fly on the wall to people's lives,as they entrust their private photos,which seems to amuse him as well as feed his knowledge and curiosity,about both film AND people. He develops an attachment to a handsome,upper-middle class family named the Yorkins(Michael Vartan,Connie Nielsen and Dylan Smith)and prizes the calm,sanctity and seeming normalcy of their relationship.So when he discovers,through developing a roll of their photos one day that the father is having an affair with a co-worker,this begins to rip away at what Sy has treasured. Given his already tenuous grip on reality and low sense of self-identity,the damage becomes incrementally frightening.Where Insomnia had Williams in an almost unbending menacing role(hope I'm not giving anything away there!),One Hour Photo takes Williams down a much subtler,more sympathetic path. You could feel empathy for him at any point of the movie. You could do it with OR without feeling any dread or any sense of menace about his character.And,of course,you could JUST find him simply creepy,too. The YorksWill,the cheating,seemingly above-it-all dad,Nina,the reserved but vulnerable wife and Jake,the kid(who seems to be the only one that shows even a vague suspicion about Sy's quirkiness,though even he seems to be more amused than scared) are prefect counter-balances and surrogates for the audience,as we slowly begin to realize what kind of obsession is at play here.The summary title comes from a theory I've had since I first saw the movie in theaters on first releaseI have a funny feeling this movie could've just as easily been translated in a film-short and not been any less effective,but as a full-length feature,this takes on layers that make this film a more viscerally effective piece of fiction. Director and writer Mark Romanek has created a great first-effort film,with characters that are flesh-deep and real and images(particularly of the cold fluorescent-lit department store)that are as haunting as they are mundane. Great film! "},{"Title":"One hour photo, two hour thriller","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robin Williams is mostly known for comedic performances such as Mrs. Doubtfire and Mork and Mindy. In this movie, he plays a seriously deranged psychotic photo department clerk who goes crazy after he learns that he no longer has the ability to service his customers- especially a family of three whom he has been stalking for over ten years. I thought that it was a breath of fresh air to see Robin Williams take on a scary role and I really liked the movie because it showed the range of characters that the actor can do. During the movie I watched how different he looked, walked and spoke. The dream scene with the eyes made me jump and the wall of fame gave way to how insane the character of Sy really was. After seeing this movie, all of my photos will be digital from now on. "},{"Title":"Williams' Best Role Yet","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Terror of the unknown can come under so many disguises, so it's no wonder that the most antiseptic of settings -- a shopping mall reminiscent of WalMart -- spawns the terrifying creature that is Seymour Sy Parrish.And how many of us haven't gone to these stores to develop our pictures not really paying attention to the man or woman who takes the time to make them come alive (and in one hour, at that)? We live in a society that values privacy, but nevertheless we leave ourselves more naked than we would like to think -- and this is a prime example. Because customer service representatives have been trained to smile at all times and be of service to their customers, when one of them becomes just a little too intrusive for comfort, no one notices. At first.This is where Sy Parrish comes in. Played by Robin Williams who carries the entire movie on his shoulders, he could be anyone, the friendly guy behind the counter of whom we know nothing. A quiet, non-descript man who has no attachments, he could fade into anonymity at any time and would not be missed. Only one person feels pity for him, Jake Yorkin, who frequents the store with his mother Nina Yorkin, and he even expresses it. It seems Sy's a sad man, he says, and he's more than right. Sy is a broken man. Just how broken he is we will find out later on.People like Sy Parrish are bombs of anger and self-hatred waiting to explode and cause irreparable damage. Because of the hurt they've experienced they've become sponges absorbing what they deem orderly and perfect, so once they focus their warped interest on someone else, it's as if they were literally absorbing everything about that person. Mark Romanek doesn't waste too much time in exposing Parrish for what he is -- a creepy stalker -- in one masterful shot of Sy's entire living room wall covered in pilfered pictures of the Yorkin's at different times of their lives, no doubt taken every time they would visit his kiosk to get their pictures developed, as he watches -- stares, fixated -- at The Simpsons. But despite this disturbing picture, there's a sense of sympathy, even if it comes later as Sy's psyche comes unraveling and his actions stem from an act of infidelity that someone else's pictures reveal. Will Yorkin isn't exactly the nicest man around and one scene -- a heated argument between he and Nina, early in the film -- establishes his character as a man tired of his family, throwing it all away for a sordid affair. Does this justify Sy's actions? No, but for a man who only wants to do what's right -- even when he himself deludes himself to believing the book he reads (which Nina is also reading) and the lie of the woman's picture whom he calls his mother -- this is all he knows.Mark Romanek has only done one other movie that I can recall, and haven't seen, but his video work is fascinating. Why this man hasn't done more films is beyond me, because as a visual storyteller whose work is reminiscent of Stanley Kubrick. Some of his videos have gone down as the best ever (such as his rendition of the video Hurt or Madonna's Rain). His mastery in pacing this story is evident. I loved that he creates an escalating sense of suspense and dread with the smallest of elements a continuous barrage of photo shoots of a little girl playing in the front yard becomes a predator's way of revealing himself. Shown in quick succession, they become quite terrifying. Also, the way Romanek avoids showing a drop of blood and gore -- internalizing Sy's fantasy world, making his anger only vaguely hinted at, but getting him ever so closer to the Yorkin's with his kindness. Except for the final explanation scene, reminiscent of PSYCHO as told by Sy himself, ONE HOUR PHOTO is an almost flawless art-house thriller of a man collapsing into insanity. "},{"Title":"Creepy and delicious.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a big fan of the Cable Guy, I had high hopes for this movie. No, One Hour Photo isn't a dark comedy, but it stars a renowned comedian portraying a stalker, so it relates in that aspect.With thriller movies, you can't reveal too much of what happens, otherwise it may spoil the experience. So, I can't really go into too much detail about any of the events in this film, but I will say that it did, at many moments, keep me at the edge of my seat. It's indeed very creepy.However, we seemed to have another case of 'Good movie, bad ending'. It's not as bad as Identity was; in other words, the ending wasn't so bad that it ruined the entire movie; but, it was dumb. This is just in my personal opinion. I felt that the ending could have been awesome if they went for a different approach. But, when the final moments of the movie unfold, I was just like .....oh. I felt kind of let down when the credits began to roll.Great movie... it's an excellent film to watch in the dark... however, just don't look forward to a great ending. I'm sure that most other viewers would be disappointed with it as well.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Great","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is a film filled with good ideas but none of them go anywhere unless they go backwards which they do sometimes. The greatest idea of them all is the big one of the crazy guy who becomes obsessed with a family after looking at their photos or snapshots and actually begins to believe he is Uncle Sy part of the family. And than after he finds out that the father is having an affair and that the family is not perfect he breaks down. This could have been an extremely disturbing and deeply scary film but instead it ends up simply being a little disturbing and a little scary, and thats simply because of the idea, you get scared about the same amount just thinking about it. It falls apart mostly because of the script which while trying to make Sy look like more than just a monster ends up giving him almost no development at all, in other words you don't care about him. There's very good direction here though, he has some great symbolism the colors especially. May be worth watching for some of the performances and the direction, maybe someone will take the hint from this movie and make a better film out of it. "},{"Title":"Williams show","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't find One Hour Photo to be that exciting as a movie. What i enjoyed about it was mostly the restrained style and the fact that for once movie-makers understand that gore is unnecessary to create suspense. What felt less appealing was the fact that in the end the story is not that dramatic and it felt a little too light.In the end One Hour Photo is Robin Williams show. I have always said that he is at his best when the role is as serious as possible. Here his performance reminded me much of his performance in Insomnia. Both are sensitive and solid portrayals of psychotic people that have much going on beneath a calm surface. Something that suits Williams very well.One Hour Photo is a rather good movie and i enjoyed it. As a thriller it's not exceptional but it's solid and Robin Williams in the lead is the factor that really makes it worth while.7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific, offbeat thriller","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well now, another one where my review appears to have disappeared into thin air. So here we go again. ONE HOUR PHOTO is a near-perfect effort at a slightly different thriller, as a shy and retiring photo clerk (Williams) working in a Wal Mart-type store fantasizes about living out his life with a young family who are frequent and familiar customers of his store. Williams is magnificent as the very creepy Sy the Photo Guy, who makes an extra set of every batch of negatives the family drops off for processing. His home is a shrine to this family. Problem is, he then decides to take things a step further, and from that point the film enters Twilight Zone territory. The ending proved extremely controversial. Some folks loved it, some hated it, but no one was indifferent to it. I have very mixed feelings about it myself. I find it almost anti-climatic. See the film and decide for yourself. And then let me know what you think. The white and pastel motif of the store and Sy's wardrobe is extremely interesting, and reminded me of the whited-out imagery from Williams' previous flick, INSOMNIA, in which he played a very devious serial killer. My favorite scene has Sy sitting on the floor of his photo studio, but I will say no more so you may enjoy the scene as it plays out. I will tell you it is a major turning point in Sy's evolution from voyeur to stalker. One big flaw in this otherwise highly entertaining film Connie Nielson's bizarre and distracting hairdo. It actually does go with her quirky personality in this quirky film, but still it is a major turnoff. Sort of like Harrison Ford's stylized hairdo in PRESUMED INNOCENT. You end up focusing on Ford's hair more than Ford himself in that one. His hair should have been billed separately. "},{"Title":"Someone Watched The Shining Too Many Times","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One Hour Photo is a great thriller that unabashedly borrows tactics from Stanley Kubrick's The Shining the tracking shots, the linear cinematography, the Black guy who can't wait to help the white family, a sensitive child character, and the overall weirdness. I read in the IMDb trivia that Jack Nicholson was originally asked to play the role of Sy, but that would have made this film into too obvious of a Shining rip-off. Robin Williams' convincing and compassionate acting as Sy bent the film in a different direction. He is much more subtle than Nicholson, who we can imagine as being constantly at the boiling point in many of his other roles. Williams delivers a feminized performance, where even his victims, being held at knifepoint can't seem to be dominated by his weak persona. This movie is full of thriller genre clichés, yet is still very engaging and likable. "}{"Title":"He wants so much to belong.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sy Parrish(Robin Williams)is pathetic, sympathetic, apathetic, obsessive and just lonely enough to be dangerous. Sy is a middle-aged manager of a photo-printing department that prides himself in perfection and service. Sy hides away a secret fantasy. He has developed pictures for the Yorkin family for so many years, he sees himself as part of that family he has admired as the All-American family for so many years. He looks forward to processing prints of those memorable moments of the family and always keeps a print for himself to enjoy either on the floor at work or in his lonely apartment. When Sy loses his job he also realizes his fantasy world is in danger. Beware of Sy...he does not handle reality well.Mark Romanek writes and directs. Also in the cast are Connie Nielson, Michael Vartan, Dylan Smith and Paul H. Kim. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'd heard more positive than negative reviews, before I watched this movie, but in the end, I was left disappointed.I can see what they tried to do - a deep, psychological thriller about a lonely guy who works in a Photo shop, obsessed with a family, but it didn't work, for me.Close-ups of Robin Williams - that's been done before. Who on earth thinks that a close-up of his face creates tension in a movie? Does he get praise for his ability to look moody, and staring off into the distance? I think it's just an excuse because they can't think of anything to say.Oh well, it limped along like a wounded dog and in the end, left me wanting Phone Booth instead of One Hour Photo. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable chiller","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent psychological thriller. Nice work, Robin Williams!I was a bit hesitant to critique this movie. I've read the reviews and frankly I don't understand why it's not universally liked. The only reason I can conceive is that Robin Williams has been the underdog/hero for so long that perhaps people are having a hard time accepting him as the villain.These characters were well developed, the story was creatively written, the direction was strong and the plot was rather edgy. This was an excellent attempt and greatly boosted my estimation of Robin Williams's future career.I enjoyed this movie tremendously and look forward to Robin Williams's next endeavor with a level of anticipation that I have not felt about his movies in a very long time. I thought he was quite good in this.It rates an 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Thriller of Oscar caliber.","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one film that should have been nominated for Best Actor. It is not only the look of Robin Williams, but also his performance as  Sly Parrish which elevates this from film-festival fare to nail-biting terror. It is creepy to hear the first-person narration, and awe at how Robin stayed in character; when he jokes in this movie, it is very eerie. Romanek uses the locations very well throughout the film such as when Sly gets a photo at a yard sale even though she has been in Sav-Mart  many times before, and had her photos developed by Sly, you can see her nervousness around him has not faded. In fact, the main characters are very much alike they present a certain face to hide their true feelings; Nina wears stylish clothes and high-heeled boots to stand out from everybody else, and maintain a image of being the picture-perfect wife. The director also takes advantage of his background in music videos in a sequence at the Yorkin's house. The musical score is very good. Overall, I believe that One Hour Photo may be a symbol of the future independent film, where plot and style meld perfectly. "},{"Title":"Terrific thriller which grips till the end","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not being a fan of Robin Williams' comedy, I was surprised to appreciate his straight-playing in Insomnia. However, One Hour Photo pushes this up ten-fold and he's simply outstanding. One Hour Photo is the tale of a lonely man who's obsessed with a young family, most likely because as their photo developer he's seen all their happy pictures and wants so much to have that in his own life. And yet can't, so is fixated on them. Williams' as 'Si the photo guy' is superlative at portraying an apparently normal person whose demons run deep and who is disturbed by his own obsession. Connie Neilson oozes class as as the mother who seems to have the idyllic life, and Michael Vartan is suitably distant as the father whose work seems to stop him being as much of a family member as he should be.The pace of the movie is unrelenting, and although it *is* a short movie it seems to go by in minutes. The direction is outstanding too, with superb cinematography adding to the atmosphere of contradictions of loneliness and togetherness.Overall a fantastic thriller and brilliantly played. "},{"Title":"One Hour Photo 7/10","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo has what many critics hailed as Robin Williams's greatest acting job. I don't think so. Although he's excellent in his role as Sy the Photo Guy, he still excels at doing comedy in movies like Mrs. Doubtfire. Photo is music video director Mark Romanek's first movie was writer-director, and it's very distinctive that it is. It's hard to explain, it just looks like a rookie operation.Williams plays Sy, a photo clerk at SavMart, a Target type place. He loves his job very much, and his customers more so. His favorite family includes the Yorkins, Nina (Connie Nielsen), Will (Michael Vartan) and Jake (Dylan Smith), who Sy thinks is a perfect family. He makes extra copies of their photos for himself, and in his apartment he has a wall filled with their cherished memories. However, Nina and Will are on shaky ground, presumably about money, but we can't really tell. When Sy realizes this, and something else that's quite obvious, he doesn't like how he's been misled. And he gets angry. This shy soul doesn't like that, and he's going to do something about it.The greatest pro and the greatest con both involve Romanek's script. Romanek has created almost a fantasy world, where it seems that everything is going right. The story is so original it seems like it could have been a true story. The character of Sy rings so true, it shows that we all know a Sy somewhere in our lives, yet we don't take the time to notice him. However, the supporting characters were some of the most uninteresting I have seen in a movie this year. I didn't care about the Yorkin family one bit. Not only that, but there was no development of the Yorkins. What did Will do that we were supposed to know? We didn't know. What about anything about Nina or Jake? I have no idea. I wanted less of the Yorkins and more of Sy.A reason it is apparent that Romanek is a auteur director is that he expects all scenes that could be thrilling to be thrilling. They could have been made tense but instead Romanek just assumes that we think it is. Although that scene, bound to be famous soon, in the hotel room at the end was, the rest of the movie wasn't. Williams showed yet again how versatile he is; he can star in comedy or drama with perfect ease. He was superb. However, all of the Yorkin family came off dull and flat. Gary Cole, as the one-note boss, was way better than people should be in supporting roles like that. Overall, One Hour Photo is an interesting drama with great lead acting.My rating 7/10Rated R for sexual content and language. "},{"Title":"Less Than Scary","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A film developer becomes obsessed with a family by viewing them through their photographs. I thought Robin Williams would be dying to play against type and sink his teeth into the role of Bad Guy... I thought he'd be dying for a chance to create a memorable or original psychotic, but no such luck. Turns out he's all but invisible when he isn't frantically babbling in search of a punchline. As a result this is a flat, forgettable exercise in by-the-numbers pseudo-stalking.The two things that really bothered me about this turkey#1) Connie Nielsen's hair is so perfect, so salon-fresh, so boldly styled in every shot that it completely distracted me from everything else. I am not usually one to notice details like this, but her hair was so artfully sculpted in proudly-absurd styles (even when she is supposed to be fearing for the life of her husband) that I had to laugh out loud. #2) Michael Vartan, who plays father Will Yorkin, manages to create NO character whatsoever. He plays a husband cheating on his wife, yet even after he is caught in bed with his lover and physically tortured by Williams, he is STILL unable to express any emotion whatsoever. Avoid this film. It's disposable pap.GRADE D "},{"Title":"Robin Williams makes a good creep","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Williams plays Sy, a creepy loner photo-tech who has no life outside work and becomes obsessed with the Yorkin family. He makes a copy of their pictures for himself and puts them on a wall in his apartment.  He fantasizes about being part of their family and how great of a life they have. He envies the Yorkins. He follows the kid, Jake, to soccer practice, and the mom, Nina, to the mall.  One day a girl brings in photos and he recognizes her from one of the Yorkins photos. So, he looks at her pictures and sees that Will Yorkin is cheating on his wife. This greatly upsets him because he doesn't like seeing a guy who he thinks has the greatest life throw it all away.Sy gets fired from work and really starts stalking the Yorkins.  He decides Will must pay.  He confronts Will and his mistress at a hotel and I won't spoil it any more because what Sy does is so creepy and disturbing.FINAL VERDICT Williams does a great acting job as Sy.  And seeing this life of a really messed up photo-tech was really disturbing and very good. I recommend this one for anyone looking for a drama or thriller or a character driven movie. "},{"Title":"Behind the smiley face.","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS.Freud called it sublimation when you convert your neurotic anxiety into a constructive channel such as your work or your art, and that's what Robin Williams shows his character doing here, in a fine subdued dramatic performance. People bring their film to him to be developed in the SavMart.And although he's nothing more than a smiley face to them, they are much more to him. He knows them all, their quirks, their joys, and their families. In fact he runs off an extra copy of family photos -- children playing, wedding ceremonies, vacations, the usual dull stuff -- and takes them home and tapes them across an entire wall of his apartment. When he's not watching The Simpsons (a family show) on TV, he's sitting back in his chair glowing with pleasure as he looks at his wall.Not that he's entirely happy. He laments the fact (in a literate and observant narration) that if we were to judge families just from the snapshots they take, it would be misleading. People just take snaps of joyous moments. They neglect everyday subjects like the used bandaid, the wasp on the jello, the edges of the sofa cushions -- things nobody pays attention to, like himself. What a well-done movie for a first-time director. One notices first the use of lighting and color. The SavMart in which Williams works is all fluorescent light and sterility -- the dominant hues are blue, white, and cream. The only advancing colors we see, warm reds and oranges, are associated with the family that occupies most of his attention, the Yorkins. His home, like his workplace, is so sterile and tidy that it makes an ordinary space look like McSorley's Old Ale House.The family snaps bloom like a spring garden of flamelike orange. The wall that they cover is the only sign of life in Williams' home, aside from the pet hamster that runs endless miles in its silly circular cage. If the film were any more symbolic it would have to be European. The actors wear matching wardrobes. Williams' uniform is flawless for its purpose. A blue vest, starchy gray shirt and matching tie, gray trousers, and a pair of those ugly plastic shoes with thick gum soles -- all gray. Williams is first-rate in the part, not just his bland professional behind-the-counter smile or his tentative voice but his movements, his body language. It's stilted, stiff, robotic, as if requiring an immense amount of effort to control. The black detective is good as well, if more sympathetic than we'd expect from an ordinary cop. And so is Connie Nielson, whom Williams takes to following around. (Why not?)The director has done a fine job. Camera movements are generally measured pans, and shots are held for enough time for us to absorb their contents. (What a relief after having been so often zapped in recent movies.) The influence of David Lynch, the Coen brothers, and Stanley Kubrick is there -- but not to an objectionable extent. The director is fond of the kind of brightly lighted scenes that Kubrick used to find so attractive. (See the scene between Nicholson and the waiter in the men's room in The Shining for an example of what I mean.) Originality shows in this movie. A less thoughtful flick would have -- could EASILY have -- included the butchery of two guilty people in the nude.Or -- when Williams has a nightmare -- he COULD have screamed, shot up from his bed, and shoved his face jarringly into the camera, but he doesn't. The nightmare, by the way, has blood squirting in buckets from Williams' eyes. There are lots of eyes in this movie. Williams at one point interrupts a lecture on eye surgery. And lots of camera lenses. The only thing that leave me puzzled a bit is the denouement, in which Williams quizzes the black detective and tells him he's a good father, and that he'd never make his children do sick things. Williams' face twists with angry distress as he says this, and the detective comments, I think I understand, Sy. I'd rather NOT understand, if what we're meant to understand is that Williams' father was a child abuser. That's too cheap a shot to fit into the rest of this superior story. "},{"Title":"Penetrating Psychological Study","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"       8 out of 10     Sy is one of those everyday type of guys you see around and then completely forget.  Yet everyone DOES have a life even if for some it is only an inner life.  For Sy it is a typical suburban family who he has known for years due to the fact that he develops there pictures.  His obsession with them grows until it spills over with frightening results.     Sounds like the basic setup for another psycho/stalker scenario and yet it isn't.  This film far exceeds that and in many ways takes it into a whole new level.  At times this film seems much more like a drama or even a sad movie. You actually feel for this Sy guy. He is still threatening, but in a much more complex way.  The director does a very good job at getting you into Sy's emotional state.  The color schemes and music bring you into Sy's world and makes for a lasting impression.  The nightmare sequence is especially well done.     Williams, as Sy, is terrific.  His venture into unchartered territory has proved to be a successful one. His comic persona has always had a sort of 'lonely boy looking for attention' type quality.  He creates a character that has a dark side and yet still shows a lot of humanity.  He gets the viewer to become sensitive with someone they might not otherwise want to.  This creates good tension as the viewer then becomes torn between liking him and fearing him.     If there is anything wrong with what is otherwise an outstanding effort is the fact that it seems to be too rehearsed and neatly packaged.   It's point is too bombarded and there seems to be no opening for a more free form style.  The stylization is strong and at times drowns out the reality of the films main message.     Yet on the whole director Romanek shows a lot of promise.  He respects his characters and doesn't try to exploit them.  His script is intelligent and dark and yet still tasteful and restrained.  His filming and choosing of the young actor who plays the child is good example of this.  He is not overly cute or precocious.  He shows the natural awkwardness of a typical child and yet still conveys a perception to things that the adults don't.  He is a child as they really are. "}{"Title":"Great actors...Not so believable ending?","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ****Couple of spoilers...if you plan on seeing this, don't read****When I first saw the trailer for One Hour Photo I was expecting a horror film about a crazed photo developer. Instead we get a story about this man named Seymour Cy Parris, who is literally obsessed with his job. But he takes interest into his customers as well, one family in particular, The Yorkins. He takes so much interest, that he makes doubles of pictures they develop, Follows them home..watches there activities..the usual Stalker material.The movie goes on to show how Cy is an alienated person in life...deprived of friendship..No family backround. He's overall just an empty guy, looking for friendship, and ultimately this family The Yorkins He has all these dreams of being Uncle Cy ...Aww..I think the movie is great, it kinda kept you on the edge of your seat, It had a very easy going, intriguing storyline. Most of all you just wanted to see what Mr. Cy Was all about.Cy ends up losing his job at the photo area, and he loses control of his emotions as well. And that's when the movie took kinda a bad turn. It got dark..And things like adultery, Assault, Attempted murder..These are brought into the picture.Now, overall, I did like the movie. I only have one problem...the very end of the movie, Like the whole outcome of the family. Will Yorkin (Michael Vartan) Has been committing adultery. Once Cy finds this out, his perfect family is ruined. So he goes on a rampage to teach Mr. Yorkin a lesson. So, CY does a lot of mean things to him...Cy gets arrested..OkayThe whole movie lead on you to think that Cy was looking for this family to take him in. It's unbelievable they decide to after what he did to Mr. Yorkin, and his petafile like instincts...not exactly flattering, more like creepy. 7/10 stars- I guess There's no such thing as happily ever after - "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is back in action","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This can be said very short. Robin Williams is still one of the greatest actors we have at this time. This movie is great. I have heard some refer it to the works of Hitchcock, which I only can agree. But it wouldn't have been this great without the outstanding performence of Robin Williams.It is not a scary movie, but it certainly is a creepy movie, that slowly goes under your skin and stays there.All in all, this is a great thriller. "},{"Title":"Good and Bad","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is decent because it contains both good and bad aspects. The film is good from the standpoint that it is very well filmed and directed. Robin Williams does an amazing job of playing a mentally ill stalker in this film. But then again, I've heard that he really is crazy, so maybe he wasn't acting at all! The story line is interesting and suspenseful, but, the film falls short at the end. I expected more and since I didn't get more, I was disappointed. If you plan on seeing this don't get your hopes up for what you think is going to happen to happen. But if you think this movie looks interesting, you'll probably enjoy it. 5 and a half stars out of 10 for me. I'm a harsh critic. "},{"Title":"Makes anybody think twice about stalking somebody. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Underplayed at times, but like THE TRUMAN SHOW effective in it's portrayal of a world within fantasy, ONE HOUR PHOTO is a truly chilling, thought-provoking movie that capitalises on the current vogue for obsession with familiarity. As the 'Bennifer' show continues unabated in spite of the failure of GIGLI at the US box-office and the reality shows like POP IDOL, BIG BROTHER and such-like are at their peak of popularity, such is the power and potential of cinema to take a look at the darker side of reality.ONE HOUR PHOTO utilises a genuine lack of gore and blood to provide a maximum worth of entertainment from a deceptively simple plot. Robin Williams is at his finest as the lonely photobooth developer who has never known any other job than this one and becomes friendly with a family and results in taking copies of pictures they have sent to be developed. The family in question is actually under strain and Williams' character sees a way to become accepted into the vogue by being even more friendly with the son of the couple in question. I have to admit with the whole issue of protection of children at the moment, which is quite potent in light of the Holly and Jessica murders and with the Bulger tragedy still fresh in everyone's minds after a decade, the scene in which Williams tries to give the son a present made my stomach churn and heightens the power this first-rate psychological drama has.Williams is as far away from some of his more comedic roles and indeed is virtually unrecognizable from the more dramatic movies he has done over the years (GOOD WILL HUNTING, DEAD POETS SOCIETY; admittedly, the latter does have comic moments, but it is more bittersweet than comic!) and it is because of that that he is all the more effective.Compelling. "},{"Title":"great film for its qualities, despite my desire for more character development","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One Hour Photo is a thriller where Robin Williams plays a psycho with a conscience. It's a nicely paced, intelligent suspense film, where its qualities lie on aesthetic qualities, such as pace, soundtrack, and other dramatic elements. This is not a movie that relies on surprise, shock, or intrigue.The plot revolves around Robin Williams' character, Sy Parrish, a lonely and introverted photo lab technician at a SavMart convenience store. He lives his life vicariously through the photos of the regulars who drop off their film to be processed. One of his quips in a long series of narratives interjected throughout the movie, reminds us that, `people take pictures of happy times in their lives. No one ever takes a picture of something they want to forget.' The happier he perceives other people, the more he withdraws from his own life and seeks to be a part of theirs. But it's a special family, the Yorkins - a mother, father and son -- that he most strongly bonds to over the past nine years. He fantasizes that he is their `Uncle Sy', and in his mind, they treat him as such. As his emotional stability becomes increasingly unbalanced, he finally snaps when he discovers a secret that could tear apart the family.What carries the film is the character profiles and excellent visual qualities. The characters reflect their environment cold, stark, and generically plain. Physical spaces are large, vast areas of empty isles, huge rooms, fluourescently lit sterile environments - just like the people. In a sense, nothingness. Yet, there is a lot underneath. And this is where the film's lesser quality comes in.The characters lack is a sense of depth. Psychotics are more interesting when we know their history - we don't know anything about Sy's past, and the notion that he has none takes away more than it adds. There are other conflicts that go untested, which also leaves a sense of incompleteness. (We don't need `resolution', just a sense that an issue is addressed.) For all the empty vastness of the movie that symbolizes Sy's profile, it's a perfect time to add a tiny drop of black paint on a vast white canvas show something that gives us history. Many of Sy's pivotal plot-turning acts are done more for symbolic effect rather than to guide the plot along, and are therefore left with question-marks over the audience's collective head. Why would he do certain things? He's supposed to be cold and calculating, but some of his actions are anything but.One Hour Photo is almost more of an artsy film than a mainstream one, and in that genre, these concerns really needn't be addressed to satisfy its target audience. In the end, I loved the film, and all its qualities, despite my desire for more character development.This is Robin Williams' third film of 2002, all of which feature him as a psychotic. But it's this role that is probably the most dramatic and believable. What makes it even better is that you almost forget it's him soon after the movie begins. For an actor as easily type-cast as Williams, this marks a notable step forward in the breadth of his work.The movie was written and directed by Mark Romanek, most known for music videos; most prominently, Madonna's  1999 video collection. This is his first film, unless you want to count his indie-effort, Static, in 1985, which didn't get very much attention. In One Hour Photo, Romanek uses techniques very reminiscent of Stanley Kubrik - with the ultra-wide-angle symmetry shots, long, quiet scenes, and dramatic pauses between lines to achieve a sense of suspense and psychological drama.  "},{"Title":"A Difficult Movie To Rate","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie; I'm just not sure how much to be perfectly honest!Overall, I think this is probably the best dramatic performance that I've seen Robin Williams offer. His portrayal of Sy the Photo Guy (obsessed with a family whose pictures he's been developing for years) was probably as creepy a performance as I've seen, made even more so by the fact that the movie contains no overt violence, although there are several points in the movie when you expect it to. It's very much a psychological thriller, and it works very well.Perhaps Williams' strong performance actually hindered the movie in a way, though. The other characters didn't seem well developed. In particular I thought the performances of Michael Vartan as Will Yorkin and Eriq LaSalle as Det. Van Der Zee were weak and unconvincing. The DVD version I saw had an iteresting commentary version of the movie by Williams and director Mark Romanek. (I didn't watch it all, but certain scenes seemed to cry out for their perspectives - in particular the closing scene which leaves open the question of whether it was a fantasy of what Sy wanted or a look ahead to a reality that finally developed. I vote for the former.)In the end, though, I don't think I'd watch this again, and as I rate movies, if I wouldn't watch it again the highest I give it is a 6. So that's where this one falls. 6/10 "},{"Title":"One Hour & Thirty-Six Minute Photo","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have a friend who will hear nothing good about Robin Williams (and that's cool, because there is nothing wrong with dissenting opinions-in fact I will always welcome the other side of the coin).  Nevertheless, `One Hour Photo' is just another example that proves my friend wrong, and if he doesn't like it he knows what he can do with his opinion.I did not set out to make a brief survey of Robin William's acting career, but `One Hour Photo' prompted me to do so.  Now, the chances are that Mr. Williams will never go down as one of the greatest actors of our (or any time), and rightly so.  However, his contributions to film cannot be overlooked.  I can think of no other comedian that has ever tried his hand at `serious' roles and actually succeeded the way he has.  I mean, Robin Williams does, in fact, hold an Oscar and has been nominated on numerous occasions.  What's more, unlike Jim Carrey (who might have a shot at the `serious' tip), Williams started with a dramatic role in only his second feature film!  That would be `The World According to Garp;' and along with such noble (if not pretty darn cool) efforts such as, `Dead Poet's Society,' `Awakenings,' `The Fisher King,' `Good Will Hunting,' and `What Dreams May Come,' we can see that he has risen to the occasion (sometimes in grand style) and he is not so much of a hack.  Which brings me to back to `One Hour Photo'&#133;There was nothing wrong with this movie; nothing wrong with Robin Williams' performance (he was convincing, well suited for the role, and showed nice acting nuances).  The movie had an interesting plot, it was well paced; it had a nice color palate, and it had a few subtle plot strokes.  However, I only feel compelled to give it a 7.6/10, overall.  I don't know why.  Maybe the movie was just too NICE.  But, I did enjoy it!  I will even venture to say that if Robin Williams had not played the lead, then the movie might not have been anything.Anyway, a `7.6' is not too shabby in my book.  If I saw it for 10 bucks, used, I would purchase it for my collection.    "},{"Title":"Great performance by Williams in this masterpiece.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams proves that he's a very versatile actor, not limited to the funny guy roles he's usually cast in. His character of Sy in this movie is one of the most believable real characters I've ever seen in a movie. "},{"Title":"There is nothing more dangerous than a familiar face.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most disturbing movie I feel I have ever seen, but boy is it a good movie as well! I am a fan of actors turning themselves into versatile performers, as you get to see them in many different ways. That is what Robin Williams is doing with his career right now and a smart move if you ask me. &#145;One Hour Photo' will make you think long and hard about the people that serve behind a shop counter, especially at your local photo developer.In &#145;One Hour Photo', Seymour Sy Parrish is a quiet, consummately professional photo lab technician employed in a huge, impersonal shopping centre. One customer, Nina Yorkin is unaware that Sy has been carefully printing off extra sets of her family snapshots for years, adding them to a photo collage he has assembled in his apartment. Just how far will the lonely Sy go to become part of Nina's seemingly perfect American family unit? This film was written and directed by Mark Romanek. The start of the movie was cleverly incorporated, setting everything up beautifully. I also love the great tension that Mark included in the film, through Sy's character throughout the movie, especially at the end of the film. I am sure that Seymour would be a character that Romanek will be keeping near and dear to him, as he is a brilliantly designed character, one that the movie going public will not forget too quickly. There are other things the Romanek did well in this film as well. I loved Sy's &#145;Photo wall' which was a clever idea by Mark. The scene that shows Parrish imaging being part of the Yorkin family was also well written by Romanek. This was Mark's first feature film, not a bad effort, considering before this he was doing music videos, a very big and successful change from where I see it.Robin Williams is an actor who has had a very successful, but somewhat predictable career. He has been in many films, as the same sort of goodie character all the time. So, it was with great anticipation that I was able to see Williams in one of his strongest, unsentimental performances, a role that gives him a completely different complexion. As he was in &#145;Insomnia', Williams is cast against type in &#145;One Hour Photo', again being the bad guy. He suits the bad guy genre and I hope he continues in this realm.Seymour Parrish is a truly disturbing character. He has no friends or family, and we know very little about him, only that he works at the local sav-mart, in the photo processing department and that he seems psychologically unstable. Sy can process your photos quickly and tell what size best suits the picture you have taken, (he says many times that photos done in 5x7 could be better choice than 6x4 etc). We also see him having many hard times, none more so, than what the boss of &#145;Sav-mart', Bill Owens (Gary Cole) says and does to him, which is just gut wrenching. He makes all of Sy's problems even worse.   There are other important characters in the film. The Yorkin Family, Nina (Connie Nielsen), Will (Michael Vartan) and Jake (Dylan Smith) are a family that Parrish knows a lot about. This is another creepy side to his character, as he has memorised the Yorkin family's address and every other minor detail, which is truly scary. Then when Sy has the chance to uncover a big secret in the Yorkin familles seamlessly perfect life, he takes advantage of his job, by using photos brought in by one of Sy's many customers, that being Maya Burson (Erin Daniels), to do so. Then the way Parrish meddles in this predicament was a truly enthralling moment of the movie for me. Throughout the movie, we see Parrish being both investigated and integrated by Detective Van Der Zee (former ER star Eriq LaSalle), who finds Sy to be a big problem, who is difficult to handle.     But enough about the plot, I will leave some of it for you to learn, so you can enjoy the richness of the movie experience. I must say I appreciated the work of cinematographer Jeff Cronenweth. I especially love the &#145;savmart' locations on the film and the different camera angles that Cronenweth shows us in that place, as I feel they jump out at you. There is also a very tainted look to different parts of the film, again Cronenweth's influence, which is understandable, considering we are dealing with photography and a sick man in the film. Robin Williams also looks quite nasty in this film, and he was helped to look this way by the make-up department, headed by Suzanne Rodier, who did a great job in making Williams look as menacing as he could be.   I really like this movie, in particular Robin William's gripping performance that is in it. &#145;One Hour Photo' has been compared to the brilliant &#145;American Beauty', which is a big rap, and I can see where people are forming that opinion from. I have a friend who works at one of my town's local photo shops and I have recommended that he watches this film, as I am sure he could relate to the character of Seymour and what he goes through in vocational sense at the photo shop. I just hope he is not like him, which I am sure he is not. This film will make us appreciate how memorable photos can be for us all, and that obsessed people can be extremely disturbing for the community that we live in. I am certain they are much closer than we all think. Perhaps you might be served by someone like that someday? My advice to you is, keep on the look out for them!   CMRS gives &#145;One Hour Photo' 4.5 (Very Good &#150; Brilliant Film)  "},{"Title":"Nerd gripe","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yo!  I felt that the movie was plenty suspenseful and decent enough, although I don't really want to see Robin Williams in these kinds of roles anymore.  That said, I've got (admittedly) nerdy gripes about the movie. The toy that Sy buys for the kid is an Evangelion, and as an anime fan, you don't know how happy I was to see it used in a movie.  However, both Williams and the kid pronounce the name wrong (Evan-geh-leon, not Evanjellyion) but worse was when the kid identified the toy as a good guy, he slices bad guys with his silver sword.  I don't know if this was intentional or what, but that's about as wrong as you can get.  The toy in question is one of the nerd Mass Production Evas, Units 5-13, which directly oppose the protagonists of the series and help bring about the End of the World nerd  That's as much bad guy as you can get.  Odds are whoever put the toy in the movie didn't care, but if you're gonna say it's name, for pete's sake, get the facts right! "}{"Title":"Not too deep, but interesting and worth the watch","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin Williams is certainly creepy, but you also sympathize with him in a way. Some good cinematography and cool use of photography related imagery and metaphors. If you're a photographer (or better yet, work at a photo lab) this movie might strike a chord with ya. I'll probably never feel the same about bringing my personal photos to the local photo lab. One Hour Photo didn't blow my mind... or teach me any huge lesson... so I don't think it's as deep as some other artsy/independent type movies I've seen. But I found it really interesting and worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"Williams turns into a psychotic photoguy Sy","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ONE HOUR PHOTO (2002) spoiler alert((( Robin Williams has been all years in movie making a funny guy, like in Mrs. Doubtfire, Hook, Jumanji and off course more, but then now he made this movie, a psychotic drama about a psychotic photo psycho! The movie is never exciting, who's certainly not too good in a so-called thriller, but it is sometimes interesting to watch Williams playing pretty good. Though the movie never really gets into my system it shows both professional stuff and very new thinking inside the category. The thing is mostly that One Hour Photo gets maybe too much psychopath movie in the length, it gets too disgusting watching Williams, it gets too stupid almost actually! Williams plays Sy who works in a photoshop and here he has been working for like 20 years and never done a mistake, he has been following this family for a long time and loves them all...I think it was a mistake by Robin Williams playing in this movie. STARS ** 2/5 (it gets to weird)  "},{"Title":"Robin the Actor, Sy the Photo Guy!","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robin plays a very creepy photo guy, Sy the Photo Guy. Sy is a lonely man whp has no friends. He starts stalking this family abd things just go wrong which drive Sy insane. Robin was good in this movie. A little disturbing and dirty. But it was a creepy thriller. I recommend it. This is all I have to say. If you have any comments for me, please  e-mail me at tylerripen@yahoo.com. "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The premise of a photo developer becoming emotionally attached to a family through a lifetime of photos is an interesting one, and nicely played out. There is a lot of well thought out moments, albeit fairly obvious - the stark contrast between Sy's bland off-white and light grey world to that of the family which surrounds its moments in colour as an example.  Nothing overly spectacular here, but not all to familiar either, which is refreshing in today's suspense films.  If I had any main criticisms, it is I wish the producers would trust the audience a little more with their own conclusions. We recognise that Sy is nearing the insanity of dillusion, we don't need it spelled out to us in the last shot.  Get rid of the bookends, and the strength of the film increases. "},{"Title":"Too slow paced","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was a little bit disappointed that it needs more than an hour until something happens. Then in the last third suspense finally comes up. The story sends anyway full of messages for the audience. First there is the love for the family. Second trust nobody. Third children must be protected. Robin Williams played a very good psycho man.  I think the votes are too overrated.  My wife and I give 6.5 out 10. "},{"Title":"Expected Better","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I actually sat down to watch this movie I was expecting a Silence Of The Lambs type thriller.  What I got sadly was a great actor giving a fine performance in a weak script.Yes it had originality in parts but basically the ending sucked.I'd buy the soundtrack though!!!6/10 "},{"Title":"Well done, but . . .","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* Terrific first outing from director Mark Romanek. Williams is great as usual, it's nice to see him taking some darker roles instead of the Patch Adams fluff he's usually associated with. The script was taught and low-key for a thriller, and builds suspense nicely at the end when the viewer is unsure what exactly Cy ends up doing to his victims. Also, nice use of primary colors and framing in the cinematography (very appropriate since the theme of the film is photo development). However, one huge plot flaw ruined the overall effect for me . . . as a general rule, if someone is fired from a job, they are walked out then and there. There's no finishing out the week, and they certainly would have taken his keys away. It wouldn't have bothered me that much, but Cy's actions in the third act rest entirely on this premise. Too bad, cuz some better plotting would have made this a great, classic thriller. "},{"Title":"One Bleak Vision","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You couldn't get better than this.The basic story concept is somewhat basic and raw. To be honest, nothing special in it.As the story go along, the plot went stale, very usual, seen it. read it. know it. that's it.The actor and actresses and also basic. Sure, sure, we got the famous Robin Williams with other supporting actors. but to be honest, nothing special to be noted here.But the elemen of surprise is more towards the presentation.Seen in a cyclop view, this movie is far more powerful in it's vision. And motion picture is about visual language, right? So there you have it.All the scenes, especially the colour shading and tones are bleak and so rich. It's like looking at the bleak photograph. The way the main character sees his world. One bleak vision.The movie leaves a dry stain of impression of visual enchantment there. Very vivid and impressive. But to be honest, the story just went by like rolls of undeveloped film. We remember the shoot but not the picture.An interesting weekend movie... "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKS!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was pretty interested until the last half hour. At that point. the movie completely lost me. Overall, I wish I had done something else besides watch this piece of crap. It seems many want to love this movie just because Robin Williams is in it, but I'm telling u, IT SUCKS! "},{"Title":"Slingblades and 1 hour photo's are not born but made.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having just dropped some photos off a Wal-Mart It doesn't surprise me that the ideal of some creepy weirdo character for a movie would come from there. Robin was great in the movie. Just the right balance of creepiness and sympathy for the character. I liked the way it kept  you off balance wondering what Robin would or wouldn't do.  Like most psychos it is a pain from the past that fuels the psychotic behavior and the wall he has put up against the world to protect himself from. Until the isolation and loneliness drives him to bust through it. Great movie. "}]