[{"Title":"Fun, if over-the-top, comic fantasy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  `Big Fat Liar' offers a lively contemporary spin on the Boy Who Cried Wolf legend.  Jason Shepherd is a 14-year-old inveterate liar who spends most of his time devising elaborate yarns to keep himself out of trouble with his parents and teachers.  One day, through an amazing fluke, he meets up with a nefarious movie producer named Marty Wolf who steals Shepherd's story idea &#150; a composition he wrote for his English class entitled `Big Fat Liar' &#150; and proceeds to make a movie out of it.  When Jason's parents refuse to believe their son's outlandish tale, the youngster heads out to Hollywood to confront Wolf and make him verify his story.  When Wolf refuses to do this, Jason concocts an elaborate scheme to make Wolf's life a living hell until he relents and helps make things right back home.Kids will love `Big Fat Liar' for the simple reason that it works as pure adolescent fantasy wish-fulfillment on several levels.  First, it shows a youngster getting the rare opportunity of turning a major studio backlot into his own personal playground (the film sometimes feels like a 90-minute commercial for Universal Studios' behind-the-scenes tour).  Second, it feeds the desire we all have to watch the tables being turned on a certified rascal.  And, third, like any good fantasy for children, it puts the kids in a position of power over the adult world.  Jason and his pretty cohort, Kaylee, get to call the shots and pull the strings that eventually get the grownups to pay attention and listen to them.`Big Fat Liar' might actually have been a better film had it resisted the tendency to overdo so much of its comedy.  In fact, the best parts of the film occur near the beginning when Jason and his adventures stay connected to the real world.  Once he gets to Hollywood, the film loses a bit of its edge.  The cleverness and wit of the film's opening stretches give way to overwrought plot mechanics and over-the-top slapstick.  The film has a great deal of undeniable energy, but subtlety can be a virtue as well and we miss that sense of sly fun that defines the film's ambiance early on. Still, `Big Fat Liar' has more to recommend it than the average teen comedy.  First of all, it stars the marvelous Frankie Muniz (`Malcolm in the Middle') who has energy and charm to spare in the role of Jason and who literally keeps the film bouncing along even when the comic setups don't always pay off as well as they should.  Muniz is one child actor I will miss when he grows too old to still play these parts.  Amanda Byrnes is equally likable as Jason's conspiratorial companion, Kaylee.  And even though Paul Giamatti seems to be doing a Jim Carrey impersonation through large sections of the film, this fine comic actor hits heights of magnificent manic madness as the put-upon, hissable villain of the piece.  The movie also has a fun time ribbing many of the elements of Hollywood culture &#150; from the unemployed `actors' working as chauffeurs to the has-beens looking for that big career turnabout to the insipid material that often serves as the basis for big studio productions (a movie about a cop teamed up with a crime-fighting chicken is the example here).   `Big Fat Liar' provides mixed blessings for the sophisticated adult audience, but youngsters should enjoy it all.  "},{"Title":"Very nice kids movie; adults can play spot the connection.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Broad comedy, minimized violence, recognizable stars - drop the kids off at the matinee and you're in good shape.If you go along with them, you can play spot the movie connection. Half the movie is set at Universal Studios Los Angeles. Aside from the obvious (character walking past the Norman Bates House, etc.), the producers left dozens of props from other movies lying around. (I already submitted the cars from Back to the Future and How the Grinch Stole Christmas.) It's almost like the movie is one big plug for the Universal Studios tour.Speaking of plugs Note the obvious ones for Coca-Cola and the E.T. re-release.Parental Guidance note Please be sure to explain to your kids that a) Hollywood is not a nice place to run away to, and b) they shouldn't expect to get hugs and encouragement after they run away.  "},{"Title":"Works best for kids, but parents won't be put-down by it either","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Big Fat Liar is the type of movie I would've liked even more if I was younger and by that I reccomend this movie to the kids and if the parents don't want to go see Collateral Damage or Black Hawk Down or whatever, they might chuckel as well.Frankie Muniz plays a young teen who is usually lying a lot, and when he really looses a paper for school in a movie producer's (Paul Giamatti's) limo and winds up in summer school, he decides to go with his girlfriend (Amanda Bynes) to Hollywood to confront him.  But it isn't as easy as he thought for him to fess up.  Giamatti's blue man scenes are some of the funniest scenes he's had in movies since Private Parts.  Other scenes vary on the person, however.  Grade B "},{"Title":"Better than Expected","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When a 14 year old boy has an accident with one of Hollywood's biggest producers, he soon finds that the producer has begun to make a movie off of an English paper story he left in his car.  When no one believes the kid he takes his best friend and they go to Hollywood to get the producer to admit that the kid created the story and they are willing to do anything to make sure he admits it.  Although this is more for kids it is still a fun comedy for all ages.  A good acting job by the young actors.  ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"A Harmless Fun Little Movie","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jason Shepherd(Frankie Muniz) is known for always lying to keep himself out of trouble. When he doesn't complete his big english assignment, his teacher says that he has three hours to complete it or he will fail and go to summer school. Jason has a great imagination and he writes a story that's tilted Big Fat Liar. On the way to hand in his assignment, he gets a ride from a famous hollywood producer Marty Wolf(Paul Giamatti) but unfortunately he forgets his english assignment. in the car, fails and has to go to summer school. He tries to convince his parent and teacher what really happened to his assignment but nobody believes him. A few months after, there is a big blockbuster hit coming out tilted Big Fat Liar that's supposedly been written and produced by Marty Wolf. Jason notices that the movie is based on his english paper and that Marty Wolf has stolen his story. Now along with his cute friend Kaylee(Amanda Bynes) Jason will travel to Los Angeles and try to convince everybody what a big fat liar Marty Wolf is. I thought this was a harmless fun little movie. It's nothing special but it has a couple of jokes and it's pretty entertaining. It's more for the younger audience but I still found it to be somewhat enjoyable. I would give Big Fat Liar 6/10 "},{"Title":"now that was fun to watch it...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is a nice comedy. It has the great features of the childhood, lying or trying to get away from own generated troubles. The casting is great, great acting. And the special effects ? Well, some stunts are really impressive. Watch it! ) "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie about a kid who just wants to earn his dad's trust back.  Frankie Muniz, Paul Giamatti, and especially Amanda Bynes all provide excellent performances.  It's a well-written story with some very important messages.  Much of it seems to be set in Universal Studios, on lots one can see during one of the tours, which makes the movie even more enjoyable. I haven't laughed this much in a long time. "},{"Title":"Cute,Clean and Kid Friendly","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This Movie is really an entertaining, good clean fun movie, for the kiddies. Kaley(played by Nickelodeon's talented Amanda) is the sidekick to a rambunctious boy who has a hard time telling the truth. He eventually works this into a movie script that gets stolen. I won't bore you with the details. If you have children and want to see an entertaining if not thrilling kids movie, I highly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"I got drug along, but it wasn't bad","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, I'll admit that if I didn't have kids, I never would have seen this film and would never see it. But, considering all the rotten kids movies I have seen (such as SPY KIDS 2 or BABE PIG IN THE CITY), this is a significant improvement. And, it had enough in it that I wasn't totally bored out of my skull or contemplated suicide (something I did repeatedly in the other two movies). Sure, the performances are pretty broad and the plot is kinda silly--but it IS a kids film. And, compared with other films in the genre, this is definitely better than average. Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bines actually appear to have some talent and probably will continue to have careers after puberty--at least on infomercials or doing voice-overs.So, if you are looking for a film to see with your kids, you certainly could do a lot worse! "},{"Title":"Big Fat Liar- 9/10. Fun, fun, and more fun!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Big Fat Liar (2002)There are only three words to describe this movie- fun...fun...fun! Big Fat Liar is about Jason Shepard (Frankie Muniz), an 8th grader who is highly known by his parents and classmates to be a liar about things. At school, Jason learns that if he doesn't turn in an exam to his english teacher by five o'clock that night, then he will be in summer school. While riding his bike there, he is hit by a limo that is transporting Marty Wolff (Paul Giamatti), a nasty, rich, and lying movie producer. Jason gets a ride from him, and accidently leaves his english paper in the limo. When Jason goes to turn it in to his teacher, he realizes the paper is gone, and he tells his parents and teacher what happened- how he got hit by a limo transporting Marty Wolff--- but his parents don't believe him. Marty then steals Jason's story and puts Big Fat Liar into production. Now, along with his best friend Kaylee (Amanda Bynes), he must get to Hollywood, track down Marty Wolff, and prove to his parents once and for all that he is not lying. This movie had some fun scenes and moments, and many laughs (mostly from the hilarious Amanda Bynes), and keeps you entertained to the very end. 9/10. "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've seen in many years","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Big Fat Liar is what you get when you combine terrific writing, great production, and an emphasis on clever ideas over adolescent pap. The two stars work great together, and--what can I say? Amanda Bynes shines. Putting Irkel and Lee Majors in the film were brilliant touches. Watch this film with your kids. If you don't laugh throughout it, you must not have been paying attention. "},{"Title":"boy cries wolf, wolf cries boy.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this is the greatest recreation of the class clown, underachiever -- I love my teacher but I hate school -- vein of great American storytelling. Not since Our Gang have we had a Spanky and Darla who have wreaked so much havoc on a hollywood studio. Proving himself to his dad, and that his dad's approval meant that much to him, makes this a must-see family film. Amanda Bynes is great as the puppy-love buddy of Frankie Muniz and Paul Giamatti is excellent as the villain. "},{"Title":"Underrated.... hilarious for parents and kids","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I just had to add my comment to raise the average on this one. Paul Giamatti lets it all hang out in this one and is a hoot. He would probably say it was easy, but he really does a great job and should have won something for it. We've had the DVD for several years and my kids (boy now 4 1/2 and girl 9) will watch this one over and over, and the humor is adult enough that I don't mind having to hear it in the background (and I do run to the TV for the really funny parts). Simple moral message, lots of decent action and slapstick, bad grownups acting goofy to take the edge off, minimal bad language and minimal potty jokes make it hard to beat for a family standard. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie for Teens.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was fun!  Especially if your between 8 and 15.  Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes make a believable team of 8th graders getting back at an adult who really deserves it.  Paul Giamatti makes a great adult who you really want to 'get'.  My 13 year old daughter and her friend loved it.  Parents No really bad words or any sex to worry about.  Recommend it for the 'right' crowd.  AP  "},{"Title":"Harmless fun, muddled message","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My daughter and I both enjoyed the movie, as did everyone else in the theater.  I'm not sure whether the message was that lying is good or lying is bad. The movie never seemed to make up its mind, but Amanda Bynes is to die for and there's a few good laughs. "},{"Title":"Funny enough!!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Just three quick questions1. Can you imagine someone saying that Paul Giamatti is a BAD actor? 2. How old do you have to be to completely lose sight of the fact that movies for kids (you know, the kind starring Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes) are not the same as the movies that you might like? 3. Is there any reason to wonder why some reviewers are unemployed?The kids are cute, the scenarios are unlikely at best, and that's what makes them funny (c'mon...the bad guy sleeps with a monkey doll!) and the story makes sense within the world it creates. It's not Gone With the Wind, The Godfather (I OR II!), no. But, it's probably not supposed to be either. It's fun enough, even if some of the kids out there don't get it. Trust me... "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable to an old dude.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie on my flight from Philly to Denver.  The screen was three rows in front of me and about 12 x 10.  So I really wasn't going to watch it.  But I like Malcolm in the Middle, so I thought I'd watch just a few minutes.  Next thing I know I'm sucked in, having a great time, and was pleased as how good it was and how fast it seemed to make the time go by. I agree with that the acting is very good for this level of entertainment. Being one of the older baby boomers, I was also pleased to see Lee Majors with a role in the movie, as with a couple of other actors who were famous (Jamiel?) yesterday but are out of the spotlight today poking fun at themselves.It's your basic kid is wronged, kid gets even (and then some), and everyone enjoys themselves in the process.  No heavy thinking, no great analysis needed.  Just a good fun way to pass the time.3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Liar Review","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar is an absurd yet entertaining movie from the infamous writer Dan Schneider. The movie is a modern day, pop-culture run version of The Boy who Cried Wolf. (The kid's name is Shepard, the villain's name is Wolf). Jason Shepard does nothing but lie and when he lies at his teacher about doing his homework, he must write an essay about lying which is stolen by rude Hollywood big shot Marty Wolf. Several people plan a revenge scheme against him to prove that the kid was in fact telling the truth about writing his essay (yeah, that includes lying). The story and acting were over the top, but a lot of jokes in this movie were funny. ***/***** "},{"Title":"Decent teen comedy with a bit of Hollywood satire.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My Take Harmless, yet funny enough to sit through.BIG FAT LIAR is nearly a throwback to an old 1960's comedy frequently released by Disney. Surely, it ain't much different from a teenage-oriented TV show released by Nickelodeon. But despite being just another simple-minded, not-too-deep comedy, I found some fine and consumable about BIG FAT LIAR. It's plain, simple fun, enjoyable and frequently energetic. The laughs are definitely aimed at kids to older teenagers and would deem too harmless for even the most easy-going of adult viewers, but the film has no too little energy and innocent charms that entertained the not-too-critical side of me.Here's your first clue that the film is a teenage TV-show extended to movie length The lead star is MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE's Frankie Munez stars. He plays Jason Shepard, a average-ordinary teenager who can't live a day in his life without stretching the truth (in short terms, he really is a big fat liar). He also wrote a story, something he needs to pass his class. Inevitably, it falls in the hands of self-centered, money-mongering Hollywood producer (reminds you of anyone?) Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti), who finds it his next big must-see. Now Jason, who has no one who believes in him but his best friend Kaylee (current-Nickelodeon graduated Amanda Bynes), they set off to the big-streets of Tinseltown to get back his script, and at the same time give good ol' Marty a little jolt, a little pay-back.The gags are frequently physical humor, which means discard all your thoughts for some biting sense of humor or sarcasm. The satire on Hollywood producers are just among the closest we'll ever get to sharp, non-physical humor. Other than that, prepare for frequent mess-ups, wild slapsticks and other humor you'd expect from a wildly hyperactive 60's Disney comedy. But the difference with BIG FAT LIAR is it is quite funny. Giamatti makes an agreeable co-star, even if I yearn for him as front-and-center amongst co-stars Munez and others (but seeing him as a money-hungry tycoon of Hollywood producer is fine with me). Kids and tweens will find the slapstick humor nonetheless suitable for them. Adults might crave for more, but as it is, BIG FAT LIAR is decent and passable.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Much better than expected. Good family flick - catch it on reruns. The whole is more than the sum of its parts. Paul Giamatti chews up the scenery - he has way more talent then the role deserves. A treat to watch Inspector Uhl from The Illusionist go over the top. The blue man scenes had my 11 year old in stitches. The cameos were particular fun for the parents - nice to see Lee Majors and Urkel (umm, Jaleel) again. It's going to be tough to think up 10 lines for this film , but let's hear it for a movie that promotes honesty between a child and their parents! Amanda Bynes does a fine job when she gets to be part of the sting. I normally can't stand Frankie Muniz but he is just fine here. Hats off to the casting director - if only for hiring Giamatti! "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I could watch this movie ALL DAY! I LOVE it. Probably my all time favorite movies. But, by the way, badger1970 there are a few parts with bad language, not TOO bad, but it's not exactly G rated. GREAT movie!!!!! I recommend it to everybody. Any way, it's making me type 10 lines of text, so I am going to keep typing until it will let me post this comment. Okay... Still typing... This is getting annoying. Ugh. I still have four more to go. Anyway, WATCH THIS MOVIE! Even if you have already seen it. I DON'T CARE! Has it been 10 lines yet? Nope. Only 2 more lines left. I don't even know why it wants me to do this. I think I am done. Wait a minute, I'm NOT done, SORRY, people. I know it's torture listening to me. WEll, I suppose that you don't HAVE to read this comment... But you should, because I wrote it. I am probably done now. Finally, bye. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've ever saw","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I've ever saw. A 14-year old boy Jason Shepherd wrote an English paper called Big Fat Liar. When his skateboard was taken, he had to use his sister's bike to get to the college on time and he hit a limo. When he went into the limo, he met a famous producer from Hollywood, Marty Wolf. When he left the limo, he forgot one thing his paper! So Marty Wolf took it and he turned Jason's English paper into a movie! When Jason admitted that he left his paper in the limo and Marty took it, his parents and his English teacher didn't believe him! So Jason and his friend Kaylee had to fly to Los Angeles to go to Hollywood to make Marty admit he stole his story to Jason's parents. When Jason told Marty to call his dad that Marty stole that paper, Marty tricked him and burned his paper! Jason got so angry that Marty burned that paper so Marty called security to get Jason out of his site! Jason and Kaylee realized Marty isn't going to admit the truth. In order to take Marty down in Phase 2 The Takedown, Jason and Kaylee put permanent blue dye into the pool and when Marty jumps in, his body turns all blue and it wouldn't come off! Then they put permanent orange dye in Marty's shampoo and when he uses it, his hair turns all orange and it wouldn't come off too! Finally, they put lots of glue on Marty's earpiece to make him call Jason's father and when Marty uses it, it sticks to his ear! It was funny when Marty's hair and body turns all blue and orange and his headset is glued to his ear! After that, they tricked Marty by telling Monty, who is Marty's assistant, that Duncan moved to a house where there's a party going on. When Marty went in to see Duncan, he was at the wrong house and all the kids at the party beat him up! When Marty was in the house, Jason and Kaylee switched the controls of his car. When Marty drove his car, he knew all the controls were switched and he didn't know which button to push. He's stupid enough to fall for it. When Marty hit the rear end of the masher, the masher wrecked his car! It was so funny. So Marty starts to call Jason's dad and tricked him again! He was on the phone, but it wasn't his father, he called security! After the security got Jason and Kaylee out of Marty's site, they suggested them to go home. Monty was going to be on Jason and Kaylee's side cause she knew that Marty was a liar and a jerk so she told Rocco, who is one of the security guards that she will take care of the kids. Jason told his father the truth of what he's been up to for the past 2 days and had his parents come to L.A. When Monty came to the kids, she's going to help the kids move into Phase 4 The Payback. Jason splits the crew into 3 teams for Phase 4. One team will distract and trick Marty until Jason's parents get to the set. Marty first rode with Frank Jackson, but his car broke down so he rode with Jaleel, but he took him into the desert and leave him there. When Marty was in the desert, a helicopter came to rescue him. After that, one of the blades are jammed so Marty and the pilot got off the helicopter. After that, he was on the way to the set and when Jason saw him, Marty stopped and saw what Jason has his monkey! So Marty went after Jason and Kaylee and when they saw Lester, he released the water and when the water came, it pushed Marty away. Marty was still after the kids and when Kaylee went the other way, Jason led Marty to the top of the apartment building. At the top, Jason was challenging Marty by making him admit the truth and Marty will never ever tell the truth. When the crew caught Marty in surprise, all the people including Jason's parents who were at the set knew what Marty did. Marty was going to kill Jason but the only way for Jason to escape is jump down from the top! After that, his parents believed him that Marty took his story. When the people who were on the set left, this is the end of Marty. At the end, Jason's story, Big Fat Liar was a movie. I cant get enough of it. "},{"Title":"A fun film","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This isn't a life-changing movie; it's not an epic, or anything like that. But it's entertaining, and it's fun. It's a film that the whole family can watch together, and at the moment there are precious few kid-suitable films that DON'T have a love story in them! It tells a good story in a lighthearted way without trying to dazzle the audience with over-the-top special effects, like lots of films these days are. It's got some fairly good acting in, and all the music that's been used fits in pretty well with the movie content. The acting is quite good too, the actors look comfortable and believable in their surroundings and most importantly the jokes are actually funny. I'd recommend it for people of all ages - it certainly made me laugh. ) "},{"Title":"this is one of my favourite movies!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie. Yes, the main character lies, but that's why it's called big fat liar. Even though this kid runs away to Hollywood, it doesn't give kids the idea that they can. Besides, he doesn't just do it for fun or to get away from anything, he does it to regain trust. I don't think it was just one big ad for Universal Studios, because I liked how it gave an inside view of what it's like for kids who don't know how cool movie-making is. It has good music and fun characters. This family/comedy is totally fun for kids and parents alike. It has humour, excitement, and real life difficulties like lying.In the end, Big Fat Liar sends out a moral don't expect lying to be easy. "},{"Title":"The Boy Who Cried Marty Wolf","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" SPOILER WARNINGWe've all heard the Boy Who Cried Wolf legend. But what if the wolf was a person in the modern world. Well it might be something like Big Fat Liar. Fourteen-year-old Jason Sheperd ( Frankie Muniz from Malcolm in the Middle ) is always lying to keep himself out of trouble. One day he is pressured to write an English essay, but it winds up in the hands of sleazy film-maker Marty Wolf ( Paul Giamatti ) who plans to turn Jason's story into a Hollywood blockbuster. No one believes Jason when he for once tells the truth and he ends up in summer school. However Jason is determined to prove to his parents the truth and travels to L.A. with his friend Kaylee ( Amanda Bynes ). When Wolf refuses to admit he ripped off his story, Jason plans to make Wolf's life a living hell. B.F.L. is no masterpiece but it's a nice way to spend 90 minutes of you're time. I wished they could've made it a bit longer though and there aren't that much pranks although they are clever enough ( I like the pool-dye the best ). I might not have liked this as much as I do if it weren't for Paul Giamatti. He is simply hilarious in this. If you have 90 minutes to kill try this out. You might just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"good adolescent film","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Have you seen Home Alone? If you have, then you probably can follow along with this one. It has the formula of a kid pulling a steady stream of pranks on an adult. It will remind you of the Macauley Culkin film. The film features a habitual teenage liar whose school essay is pirated by a film maker and turned into a major movie. (The film producer had given him a ride, and he accidentally left the essay in his car.) Naturally, no one believes the kid when he claims that the idea was his, and he sneaks off to Hollywood with his best friend in tow to try to set the record straight. A steady stream of pranks bordering on mean-spiritedness follows, which includes turning the guy blue and gluing a headset to his ears. This was clearly intended for the adolescent age group, but adults might like it too. I thought it had its funny moments and found myself laughing out loud at some scenes. It all depends on your taste. If you're up to this type of movie, get it. If not, stay clear.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" BIG FAT LIAR, in my opinion, is an absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it. When Jason (Frankie Muniz - MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE) and Kaylee (Amanda Bynes - ALL THAT) played those tricks on Marty (Paul Giamatti - DOCTOR DOLITTLE), I really smiled and felt good. That's what I liked most about this movie. As a matter of fact, everything that happened after Jason's essay erroneously ended up in Marty's hands was hilarious. I especially loved Jaleel White's cameo. When I first saw him, I couldn't be certain, but, when I asked my mother if it was him, she said, Of course! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Like I said earlier, there is a moral to this story, and that moral is, always tell the truth. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Frankie Muniz, Amanda Bynes, or Paul Giamatti, I highly recommend this absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it. "},{"Title":"Suburb","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jason Shephard(Frankie Muniz) has problems. He lies to much. Now that he has lied he can't be trusted by his parents Harry(Michael Bryan French) and Carol(Christine Tucci). His only friend in the entire world is Kaylee(Amanda Bynes). So what does he do when his English paper is stolen by Marty Wolf(Paul Giamatti)? He goes out to find it and set things straight.I recommend this for anyone. The ending is suburb. Jasons paper is actually turned into a big screen movie that we all love. The laugh fest is one and this movie has the ticket. But not the ticket your thinking. The ticket to have a loved space on your shelf of classic movies. "},{"Title":"Very funny, well done","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought Frankie Muniz did a fine job. And Amanda Bynes was wonderful, especially when her character took the place of Marty's receptionist Astrid, and when she told Marty his meeting would be at a new location.Paul Giamatti was a very funny clown. I'm not sure what he did could be called good acting, but he was very entertaining and over the top.Donald Faison was good as the chauffeur and aspiring actor who had auditioned for Marty. Lee Majors was appealing as the helicopter pilot who did some visual effects work for Marty.The pranks just kept getting wilder and wilder, which was not very realistic, but certainly entertaining for the kids. As for whether this is appropriate for children, I saw nothing wrong with it. "},{"Title":"A Great Watch For Kids!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Big Fat Liar is a great watch for kids of all ages, even adults. I had a great time watching this movie and recommend this to kids of 10 years and under. The laughs never end and the adventurous plot is pretty good too! Frankie Muniz is funny and Marty Wolfe is hilarious! Overall, a nicely made film for kids to enjoy and just have a great time.  "}{"Title":"Cute movie for families","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  With all of the R movies out today, it's hard to find something you can take the whole family to see.  My kids loved it.  It was good clean fun. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to take the whole family out for a nice evening at the movies. "},{"Title":"Fun movie to watch with kids","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie belongs in the genre' of movies where the kids are a little brighter than the adults.  In this movie its a couple of 14 year olds that seem to be able to out think most of the rest of the world.  The movie is light hearted, and isn't to be taken seriously.  I'm sure it is a great escape for most all kids.  It is entertaining enough that adults will be able to enjoy the movie also, but probably best watched with some children. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie and it was not that bad.I mean Frankie Munis and Amanda Bynes can act. The movie had some pretty funny moments like when he turned blue and Grandma Pearl .All in all it was funny 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like Big Fat Liar.  My reason for watching this in the first place was because Amanda Bynes is in it and after seeing how hilarious she is in The Amanda Show, i had to check out more of her work.  After the success of Home Alone, it would appear that the majority of people enjoy seeing children getting their own back against grown up bullies and this movie is the same thing again.  It's not as funny as Home Alone but i never expected it to be, my only regret is that we didn't get to see enough of Amanda Bynes.  Big Fat Liar contains many pranks pulled by the teenagers seeking their own back against Marty Wolf, it's fast funny and theres lots of cool music in there too including an 80's tune from Duran Duran, great stuff. "},{"Title":"once upon a time when we assumed different things","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Shawn Levy's Big Fat Liar is just a funny movie. It knows exactly what kind of movie it is. Anyone watching it will have to agree that it would be fun to get to do what Jason (Frankie Muniz) and Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) do. I have no doubt that Paul Giamatti enjoyed getting to play the slimy producer who becomes the target of the kids' pranks.However, some other things caught my eye all now that I've seen the movie over a decade after its release. Shawn Levy went on to direct the Pink Panther remake and the Night at the Museum movies. Big Fat Liar's cast includes some people who got notable roles in later years. Russell Hornsby (the producer's boss) now plays Det. Griffin on Grimm. Alexandra Breckenridge (Jason's sister) played supporting roles on the first and third seasons of American Horror Story. Sandra Oh (Jason's teacher) co-starred in Sideways. John Cho (the director) went on to play half of the stoner duo in the Harold & Kumar movies and later played Sulu in the Star Trek reboot. Taran Killam (Bret) is now a Saturday Night Live cast member. All this and Frankie Muniz has pretty much disappeared. He was the star of Malcolm in the Middle back then, but can anyone name his most recent credit? Meanwhile his MitM co-star Bryan Cranston went on to gain acclaim for Breaking Bad.Anyway, it's a fun movie. The blue dye is the famous scene, but there's a lot more in store. Overall, the movie is a reminder that, yes, it's best to be honest. In the meantime, it's a pleasure to watch all the pranks get played out. "},{"Title":"Big Fat Fun for Kids and Families and the Whole World","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jason Shepherd (Frankie Muniz) is a 14 year old with a terrific imagination. But, alas, he uses it to make up lies when it is convenient to him. One day, late to school, his English teacher (Sandra Oh) asks him before he sets down to read his paper. Its not done. Therefore, Jase launches into a song and dance about how his father choked on a meatball and the whole family spent the evening in the ER. Undaunted, teach calls his dad but a friend covers for Jason. Nevertheless, the truth comes out. That afternoon, Jason's parents, the teacher and Jase all sit down to discuss the consequences. The ONLY way to avoid an F is for Jason to write the paper in three hours and hand it in to the teacher's moonlighting job in adult education. Since there is no other choice Jason does it. Alas, his bike breaks down and he pleads with a limo driver to take him to the school. In the back seat, Hollywood producer Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti) makes it clear this a great favor for him to bestow. Mr. Wolf is overseeing the final scenes of a cop with a sidekick chicken movie. It's lame. But, ho ho, Jsaon leaves his paper, a Big Fat Liar, in the limo and Wolf reads it. Here is the idea for his next movie! The teacher and his parents refuse to believe he wrote it but, give him a couple of days. Next, Jason's parents take a long needed vacation, Jason's older sister rides off with her boyfriend (no babysitting for her) and Jason convinces his friend, Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) to trek with him to California so they can get his paper back! Nasty man that he is, Mr. Wolf says no, no, no. But, he has not counted on the determination and the imagination of Jason. From blue dye in the swimming pool to sabotage on the movie set, Jason MUST have Wolf call his parents and tell him how he got the film idea. In a test of wills, who wins, a hotshot producer or a 14 year old whiz? This very enjoyable, funny movie was made before Giamatti became a star in American Splendor and Sideways. Muniz and Bynes, however, were at their apex. All three are terrific. Amanda Detmer, Donald Faison, Oh, and the rest are great as well. The sets are wonderfully colorful and interesting; especially great is a scene which unfolds on different sets of the movie studio. A chase channels through the Wild West to the North Pole and back again. Costumes, script and direction are likewise way above the norm. Yes, the story has its implausibility but that doesn't matter in the least. Want some Big Fat Fun tonight or very soon? Get your hands on this fine family flick. "},{"Title":"My Most Favorited Comedy Film","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When i was an little boy until i saw the film of Big Fat Liar i will tell of the plot after when i get to the review.It's all about Jason an school student is making the story work is titled Big Fat Liar that until he greet for help from get to school was an Hollywood director Marty Wolf so Jason lost his work that it was been stolen by Marty where he can direct an film at Universal Studios, which it make everyone not believe of Jason truth where he always lying at his family and even his teacher so Jason must get his story back with Kaylee an good friend of Jason to Hollywood, when their get to the famous location so to mess at Marty's life to make him tell the biggest truth at everyone.After when i watch the movie, i loved this when it's released on DVD because of the humor, story, acting and even the moral of truth and liar that no one ever believe to you when you lied all the time so you can use an great truth that everyone can watch this family film.I gave this film an 9 out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"cutesy kids movie","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jason Shepherd (Frankie Muniz) is a well-rehearsed liar. He writes a story Big Fat Liar for his assignment. Hollywood producer Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti) gives him a ride and finds he left behind his assignment. He is forced to attend summer school while Wolf makes the story into a big Hollywood movie. He sees the movie preview but nobody is willing to believe him. With best friend Kaylee (Amanda Bynes), he goes to Hollywood to confront Wolf. Wolf burns up his original paper. He uses his every lying skill to make life impossible for Wolf.This may not be for the adults but I think the kids would like this. They would find Muniz's antics fun and Bynes is an adorably appealing sidekick. The two kid stars make this kiddie movie work but don't expect more. "},{"Title":"My Wife Is The Real Big Fat Liar","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The flick Big Fat Liar portrays the struggles of a young slacker protagonist (Frankie Munez) as he attempts to evince the thievery of his school project by a Hollywood bigshot (Paul Giamatti). The Hollywood director acts as if the writings of the young boy are his owns and uses them for his next big blockbuster. The antagonist is basically the typical liberal left wing Hollywood type, if you ask me, always making up elaborate lies to control the media and the entire freaking country under Barack HUSSAIN Obama's rule. The protagonist could be argued as symbolizing the poor, innocent Christian conservatives being deliberately attacked by the liberal agenda.I did enjoy the film immensely, probably on par with great works such as The Godfather or Alvin and the Chipmunks The Squeakquel. Although I did love this movie, I will say that really this film could just be called Kind of a Liar I guess when compared to the story about I am about to tell you. Paul Giamatti will look like a saint or George Washington (he never told a lie) when put up against the deceiving little devil that is my wife.I married her back in 2009, madly in love. I was taken aback by her from the moment I first laid eyes on her. She was elegant in every way. I mean, when she walked into a room, all heads turned.Although, only recently did I realize that the reason heads were turning was because everyone was trying to get a glimpse of the town transsexual! Yeah, you heard me right. I was duped into marrying a dude!We were together for a year before the marriage, and she never bothered to tell me that she used to have man junk. Not only did she not tell me, but none of my so-called friends did either. They just thought it was a real hoot and waited until the day I found out and laughed hysterically at my misfortune.WHY DID SHE HAVE TO LIE TO ME? Now what am I supposed to do? Am I gay? Am I straight? Or am I bisexual since I've been attracted to a woman but also kind of had relations with a man? THERE'S NO GUIDEBOOK TO THIS! If someone had told me as a kid that one day I would marry a woman who used to be a man, I would have told you that you're full of crap. I'm a God-fearing man and I want to go to heaven, not to have carnal relations with this abomination from Lucifer, the demon overlord of hell.Now, I'm in the process of getting a divorce. But how am I supposed to ever trust someone again? We married before the Almighty God, and He knows I married a former man with balls and everything. I am so ashamed of myself. The only way I get through my days is by watching this movie and taking comfort in the fact that it all works out for the kid who is hurt by the antagonist's lies, hoping one day that I will be able to feel the same satisfaction.In conclusion, if you need a movie to distract you from the overcrowding thoughts of your wife's sex change, then I recommend this movie to you.Sincerely, Your fellow IMDb user blakelogsdon1 "},{"Title":"This Film Being Funny is a Big Fat Lie.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar (2002) Dir Shawn Levy / Cast Frankie Muniz, Amanda Bynes, Paul Giamatti, Jaleel White, Donald Faison Big fat stupid comedy that looks phony right down to its production values. Title indicates one factor gaining higher level of denial. Frankie Muniz may have to attend summer school if a particular report isn't passed in. It ends up in the hands of greedy filmmaker Marty Wolf who makes a film out of its contents. To prove his innocence Muniz and Amanda Bynes go to Hollywood to obtain the report and sabotage Wolf's career. Mean spirited comedy where the villain's only friend is a stuffed monkey without indication as to why. Screenwriter never examines possible hurts of Wolf but stages him for juvenile sight jokes. Directed by Shawn Levy with Paul Giamatti as the scheming Wolf in a variation of his role in Private Parts where he was much more rounded. Muniz and Bynes become virtually unlikable. Jaleel White spoofs his sitcom role in what appears to make him a good sport but ultimately his leaving his famed Family Matters role left him with bigger matters and this film doesn't solve those. Donald Faison plays a limo driver and struggling actor and after this film he will likely be struggling much more. Honesty theme isn't the focus particularly when one examines the dreadful marketing. This leaves the biggest lie told by the ads. Score 2 / 10 "}{"Title":"I enjoyed doing my homework over watching this...","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this trailer and thinking it might be a passable family flick...This is not a family flick, it's strictly for ONLY children that are under 10 to enjoy. Because this flick is super lame and cheesy, and doesn't have a sense of direction. It seemed like an average 12 year old wrote the script to the whole thing in one sitting. Actually even that 12 year old could probably write a much better script than this. It makes the Captain Underpants books more readable as an adult than watching through this childish movie. All the acting in this movie is uber childish even for a kids movie. Maybe I am being a bit too harsh on this suppose to be family flick, but this movie is just childish fantasy (so again it might work for kids under 10). The message is about telling the truth, but the direction and journey to get to telling the truth is a real headache. This is a definition of a cardboard movie. The main reason I was able to get through this flick, is because I was doing my homework while watching this. And guess what? I enjoyed doing the homework more.2.3/10 "},{"Title":"Decent, Inoffensive Fare!","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar is a good movie for the children but may not have enough life in it to please the adults. Personally, I thought this was rather mediocre and over-the-top, but Paul Giamatti is the saving grace of the film. There are some funny scenes including the famous scene where Giamatti turns blue. This is not a laugh-out-loud riot, but there are some mild chuckles to be had.Shawn Levy's film is a take on the legend of Boy Who Cries Wolf. After a 14-year old kid has his essay stolen from him by a Hollywood producer and turned into a movie and no one believes him, he goes all out to prove that his essay was indeed stolen.The acting is okay. Paul Giamatti is very good and is very funny! He can just appear in nearly everything and do a great job. Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes sometimes seem to be a little over-the-top, but at least they are not terrible.Overall, this is an average film that kids will love. Adults on the other hand, may find this to be too boring and safe. There is nothing new here but it could be some fun entertainment. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Went from a four, to a six, to a seven; it has the genial effect","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've been making something of a mental checklist to revisit movies from my childhood that I was supposed to see when I was roughly seven or so but evaded in favor of more obscure pictures that I really wasn't supposed to watch at that age. Such films are The Lizzie McGuire Movie, Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, the two Agent Cody Banks films, and many others that strike a nostalgia chord with me solely because they came out right around the time I was immersing myself in film.Shawn Levy's Big Fat Liar is a film I watched as a young child in pieces. I'd watch and digest maybe twenty minutes at a time - over the course of several months - before I could say I saw the entire film. Sitting through it today, in its eighty-seven entirety, it is not the immature affair I expected it to be. In fact, it's kind of spirited and lively, to the point where I find myself replaying sequences in my head, ones I didn't laugh at before, and now silently giggle at their geniality and the silliness they employ.One particular scene comes later in the film, where Paul Giamatti's character has already been manipulated unconditionally by Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes to the point where he is ready to call the day quits entirely. He gets in his beautiful, expensive car, only to discover all of his gadgets and functions have been rewired. The brake is the horn, the turn signal is the radio, etc. While Giamatti is pressing random buttons and twisting/turning random gizmos in his car, hoping in vein something works, his radio blasts the infectious song I'm Blue by Eiffel 65 and angers other drivers around him. The scene is so goofy and unexpected that the only rational response is to laugh and embrace the current situation.I'll catch you up; Jason Shepherd (Frankie Muniz) is a fourteen year old boy, known by his family and teacher as a pathological liar who enjoys dreaming up ways to get himself out of trouble. One day, he doesn't write his English paper on time, so is given a time extension, which he utilizes efficiently to write a semi-autobiographical story called Big Fat Liar. He races to school on his sister's bright pink bike (the bullies stole his skateboard), and crashes into the limousine of Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti), a cocky, wealthy movie producer. He reluctantly agrees to give Jason a ride, but Jason finds, after spilling the contents of his backpack in Wolf's limo, he left the essay in the company of Wolf.Wolf, currently in a career slump with failure after failure, reads Big Fat Liar, loves it, and decides it deserves a film-counterpart on the big screen. Without Jason's approval or consent, Wolf hurries the film into production, leaving Jason understandably upset and cheated. He decides, in an act of desperation, him and his close friend Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) will pack up their things and head out to California to get Wolf to admit to his parents that he stole the idea from him in an attempt to earn back his parents trust.In summation, Jason and Kaylee pretty much make Wolf's life a living hell, first by putting blue dye in his pool water and orange dye in his shampoo, giving him the appearance of a ginger-Smurf. They continue to manipulate him with torturous actions, like the one I wrote about above, hoping Wolf will crack and admit his wrongdoing. They team up with other actors-turned-employees for the arrogant producer, who relish the thought of exacting revenge on him for his terrible treatment of coworkers.This kind of plot is the perfect definition of serviceable. It doesn't look to offend, provides maybe a good, healthy laugh or too, and then allows you to go about your day with almost nothing to further contemplate or feast on. There's good and bad to that; in a world where the bar for children's films have been raised by the likes of Pixar, something like Big Fat Liar isn't necessary in their cinematic diet. The film was written by Dan Schneider, who has been the driving force behind nearly every teen-sitcom on Nickelodeon. Big Fat Liar plays almost identically to an episode of, say, Drake and Josh. Some jokes are funny, some fall flat, and you're left with an average episode that wasn't a burden but not an explosive winner.Muniz and Bynes, however, have great chemistry, and there are unfortunately a depressing shortage of their gracious performances today, which is kind of a shame. The two had careers that seemed to end before they started, especially Muniz, who seemed to be disposed-of by the public after Malcolm in the Middle came to a close and Agent Cody Banks 2 Destination London was released. The real performance to watch here, on the other hand, is Giamatti's, who is extremely funny and off-the-wall as a venomous movie producer, who may in fact just be nicer than real Hollywood producers. His transcend into lunacy and madness, especially in the third act, is wonderful and is played off effectively thanks to great comic-timing and spirit on his part.Big Fat Liar is not a film I'd recommend to adults. No one over ten will express much interest in seeing the film, but for the brave souls who do, for nostalgic reasons or curiosity reasons, the film is at least smart enough to show you a good, marginally-creative time. There's a pleasantly kind soul to its roots and an entertaining series of events that unfold, even if you're expecting them.Starring Frankie Muniz, Amanda Bynes, Paul Giamatti. Directed by Shawn Levy. "},{"Title":"For a kid's film...it has it's moments","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's hard to hate on a movie that has a blue-dunked Paul Giamatti rocking out to Duran Duran's Hungry Like the Wolf. It's not so hard to hate on the standard Disney kids-against-the-mean-adults Home Alone booby trap nonsense.Big Fat Liar manages somehow to walk the tightrope between those two extremes quite well, never OD'ing us on anything particularly tiresome. Seeing the trailer for the movie, it seemed to be one long torture fest for Giamatti, who plays the dirtbag slimeball producer trope for all its worth (and overall looks to be having fun with it).It's strength really comes (shockingly) from its two leads. As Jason, Frankie Muniz combines just enough breezy charisma and ah-shucks appeal to perform his Ferris Bueller gag quite well, but the really impressive stuff comes from Amanda Bynes, who delivers some truly hilarious vocal impressions, usually when on the phone.This is all really tame stuff, will not change the world or ruin it (or the art of film) in any way. It's a good genre picture and can be enjoyed for just what it is, a trifle...which actually, is not that easy to come by these days. "},{"Title":"Plot of the movie (basic)","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Very good movie about a boy who got an ESSAY assignment and forgot to turn it in and used excuses to get himself out of it. One day the boy rode a girls bike to school and bumped into a fancy limousine. He gets a lift from a guy named Marty Wolf, who then notices that he forgot his ESSAY. So his teacher threatened to send him to punctuation & writing symbols class at HIS SCHOOL over the summer. So he watched the TV in his parents' bedroom and said that the man on the JEOPARDY! show made his book into a hit on BLURAY AND DVD. So then he left to go to LA (Los Angeles)when his parents went on vacation and got in a plane. They checked into Marty's upstairs lounge, and he distracted the front desk lady and went up the stairwell. Meanwhile, Marty is arguing with a lady who then goes on the boy's side by the end. Marty smoked a cigar and purposefully burned his paperback book. So he fought until security carried him off. So he went into the movie prop room that had props from lots of movies and clothes that the characters wore. The kids dressed up in the clothing and put blue dye in Marty's backyard swimming pool. Marty soon does a backstroke and turns dark blue. Then they reprogrammed his car's fuse box so if he hits the big brake, the horn sounds, and if he hits the window opener button, the radio plays a song. So a monster truck hits and destroys his poor sedan. So meanwhile, the kids come up with a plan. They drive a car in the desert and the driver throws him into a teddy bear cacti and sits in a desert without ANYTHING to drink. So the boy saves the day and his father believes his stories again. "},{"Title":"A good comedy!","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar was a very cheesy but good comedy film. It was about a 14 year old kid Jason Sheperd,who as he is riding to school bumps into a limo which coincidentally happens to be the one where the famous(but not really famous)movie producer,Marty Wolf. And as Jason gets out of the limo in which he asked for a ride to school in,his paper slips from his backpack and doesn't notice. Later Jason finds out that Marty stole and read Martys paper titled Big Fat Liar,and makes it into the summers biggest must-see movie. Later Jason makes a series of events in trying to convince his mom and dad(who thinks he is a liar)that he wrote Big Fat Liar. This series of pranks includes turning Marty blue,and dying his hair orange! In my opinion there was a few bits of funny scenes in this film. I would recommend this for kids who like movies such as Agent Cody Banks,and Alvin and the Chipmunks. So I would rate it a good 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Family Comedy","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's not the movie that my buddies and I would go see but as a family man/woman you might take your kids to see it. Although it is no longer in theaters.There are a few unbelievable moments in the movie as explained by previous viewers but isn't that what kid movies are all about. The makers of this movie aren't obviously trying to impress thirty year old men.Paul Giamatti does an excellent job playing the bad guy in this film and you learn to hate and despise what he's doing. Not a bad showing for Muniz and Amanda Bynes either. And of course the ever so lovable Donald Faison plays a character you can't help but learn to love especially at the end when he plays the main character in the new movie.If I no longer had a little kid inside of me and I was with my guy friends...I would rate this as a 2/10. But since I know how to look at a film from a targeted audience stand point. I'm giving it 7/10.MSMITH "},{"Title":"So Funny","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jason Shepard is a slacker, he's always late to school, he doesn't do his homework, and always lies. But this all backfires on him when he either has to write a 1000 word essay in three hours, or be sent to summer school. He writes it and heads down but is hit by the limo of Marty Wolf. Wolf gives him a ride and steals Jason's story in order to get back on top of the directing chain. In order to get back at him, Jason enlists the help of his friend Kalie to fly to Los Angelas and get it back. Wolf burns the paper and so Marty decides to get back at him by dying his skin blue, his hair orange, and gluing an earphone in his ear, as well as other things.I love this movie, it's hilarious. Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes have such chemistry. And Paul Giamatti is so over the top that its hard not to like him. Plus all the sets and props of old Universal movies are always fun to see.Overall, if you haven't watched this overlooked jem, watch it. "},{"Title":"I liked it, but some of it is unbelievable.","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big fat liar is a pretty funny movie. But as I was watching it, I thought about something. Some of the events that occur in this film are unbelievable. So really, the film is kind of a big fat lie. There is no way that he could've gotten away with all of this. Here are all of the unbelievable stuff.1. When he fakes his father had choked on a meatball, and acts like he is the father. Jason(Frankie Munez) couldn't have gotten away with that. Well, luckily for us, he didn't. So it didn't stick with it, the outrageous.2.Even if the Grandmother was blind, she still could've figured out that that wasn't her granddaughter. 3.They couldn't have gotten on the plane, flown to L.A., acted like they were coat salesmen, sneak into the studio, and then, and then... Well, some of the film is a little unbelievable. But it doesn't hurt to tell a little white lie. Trust me, I do it all the time.Big fat liar, though unbelievable at times, is fun. It's also very funny. But let me just say one thing before I continue this review. If Paul Giamatti wasn't in this movie, it would really suck. It would be horrible. Big fat liar is also pretty funny, though corny at times. I give it a thumbs up.Big fat liar***/**** "},{"Title":"Marty, you're a plagiarist","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After seeing Big Fat Liar, I think Jason learned a lot more. When he told the truth about Marty stealing his story, it was like the boy who cried wolf. People heard him, but they didn't believe him. Nobody did anything to help him. Besides, not only Marty's movies stink, so does his advice. The truth is not overrated. I am so glad he got exposed for what he really is. Everyone found out that he stole from that boy, including his parents. Not only he stole from that boy and lied about it, he gave them someone else's work and tried to call it his own, which is plagiarism. Doesn't he know that it is illegal to plagiarize someone's idea? Another reason why he got fired. He is not trustworthy. He's a liar, a cheat, a thief, a crook, and a plagiarist. You got that Marty? You're a plagiarist. Plus, you got everything that you deserved. "}{"Title":"Dancing for enough space to love a Bynes feature, v2.00","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is usually the Bynes that I rate the most, and she has appeared in quality stuff such as She's The Man and Hairspray, stories that float in the same seas as such as Lindsay's Mean Girls and which I find to be wow, if occasionally scary. I rate this alongside such as Lindsay's Get A Clue, which I also find to be occasionally scary. In comparison, Hairspray is so nice. Further than that, I find a comment to be difficult to write for this. Post one draft, it feels lacking in some ways and it is not long before a revised draft is needed if the comment is not to seem to be too misleading. Fast Food Nation has the same problem, for me. * An actor stuck with the name A_man_da Bynes should be expected to get opportunities to act in stories that will occasionally frighten the dispossessed or make us want to vomit. The Amanda Show included some mild comments that include different facets. This takes that further. The bad guy is so much an evil version of people tied up to have not much freedom of action. And the tied up do get a lot of up-side-down corrections that tend to corrupt us more and more. Hero and A_man_da friend head to big city to ask a small favour from the evil chained monster and it is not obvious to Hero or A_man that Chained One does not have enough freedom to do other than head on a path that leads to his demise as a perceived person, a toppled monster. * The extent that Hero goes to avoid the conflict, that has to be amazing too? That is shown as a trait of Hero, not just a ploy. Suddenly I need to wonder if the story is actually an old time morality tale, exploring old time values in a story of social disease and warfare linked to that. Hero and A_man consider their actions to be pure. There is a trail of mayhem that they unleash but that is such a good thing for them to do. It is an old fashioned morality tale? This is a modern theme that many stories explore. Of course, someone who is not a big baby might consider this to be cute rather than horror. Does this story reflect the modern world, if via a fairy story? My experiences of warfare on the IMDb pages says yes. My experience of other realities than IMDb pages says sometimes yes and sometimes no. "},{"Title":"This is a Grate Movie!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was such a FUNNY movie!!!  This movie is more than just for kids, young adults can enjoy it too...  If your looking for something full of laughter this is the movie!  Frankie Muniz is excellent in the role of Jason Shepherd!  Really, this is a MUST SEE MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Jared Liked It A Lot","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" SPOILER ALERT!!!! This was my son's review of the movie, which he wanted me to post. He wrote this, I swear.With Malcolm in the Middle's Frankie Muniz, and Nickelodeon's Amanda Bynes, they get to go to show business. They team up on the actor Paul Giamatti. He stole Jason Shepherd's essay on Big Fat Liar, and makes it in to a movie. Jason (Frankie Muniz) and Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) have to go to L.A. to get it back. Jason's dad does not believe that he wrote that essay. So every time they see each other Jason asks Wolf (Paul Giamatti) to give Jason's dad a call because he wants his essay BACK!!!! Wolf does not make the movie but the President of the company makes it. At the end the family and Kaylee see the movie, Made by Wolf Pictures and based on a real story written by Jason Shepherd. "},{"Title":"fun film","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this tale of a kid whose term paper is stolen and turned into a movie script.. who then he travels to hollywood to get even.. but.. hey.. it's still a fun film. Frankie Muniz of Malcom in the Middle fame stars as the kid and is fairly good and Amanda Bynes as his friend is also very good. Yea the film does work as an advertisement for Universal Studios theme park and is really kinda a silly kids film.. but i enjoyed it anyways. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Wittier than I expected","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went into this movie thinking it would be terrible. And, I'll warrant it's no competitor for Best Picture. And that Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes are not the world's most talented actors. But they were good for this movie. Anyhow, my best friend had a business meeting, so she begged me to take her 10-year-old daughter to see this movie. Cringing inwardly, I agreed. Lana (her daughter) of course was delighted with this movie, and I found myself laughing along at certain parts. It wasn't a disappointment, in fact I was pleasantly surprised. But I warn you, don't go into this movie expected something Oscar-caliber or even halfway brilliant. Just go in with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Likeable, if implausible family film","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Who said it had to be believable? Do yourself a favor and turn off your ration before you sit down to view this film. You'll enjoy the experience much more. You'll find yourself forgiving some of the movie's more outlandish plot set-ups, and simply accepting it for what it is--a great family film. I appreciated not having to be concerned about questionable elements in a children's film for once. That, to me, is worth the price of the ticket. And it manages to maintain its wholesomeness without being obvious about it--older chidlren will enjoy this film. Enough good humor to keep adults interested. Very good film.  "},{"Title":"Just for fun.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Fun movie!  Great for the kids - they found it very entertaining. Somewhat predictable, but there are a few surprises.  Great movie to watch if you're looking for something just to entertain (don't expect to be seeing a classic!) "},{"Title":"Great for the whole family","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my 2 girls (9,6) to the movie.  It was great.  I enjoyed it and they enjoyed it.  It's nice to see a movie that you can take your family to and not worry about what they'll be exposed to.  The movie is very funny (most of the laughs in the theater were from the adults).  Frankie Muniz has great comedic timing and is very naturally likeable.  As a good joke they have the guy who played Urkel in the movie (just to show you that a child star doesn't necessarily have a career after puberty). Frankie Muniz will definately have a long career.  Very enjoyable.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the best this year.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just saw Big Fat Liar today and surprise it was a kick in the teeth. Frankie Muniz Malcolm in the Middle was excellent as the never ending Scheme thinking Jason Shepard. Paul Giamatti Planet of the apes was great as the notorious Marty Wolf. And for anyone who loves the Grinch if you look closely you can find the car and the Grinch costume. People go see this movie it's deliciously funny. "},{"Title":"Big Bad Movie","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar is pretty much a lie from the start. At the menu screen, you see a girl so you'd think she's the main character, but she's not. So the movie starts up with a 14 year old boy named Jason who lies all the time. He doesn't do his paper so he has to turn it late. Along the way, he meets up with a director who happens to be filming a movie where Urkel is a cop with his partner as a chicken. The kid leaves his paper in the limo of the director and he turns it into a movie. Jason then goes to Hollywood and steals, vandalizes, and lies more in order to learn that lying is wrong. Oh and instead of planning how to get the director to admit he stole the film from Jason, he and the girl have a 2 minute montage on them trying on clothes. They eventually find everyone who hates the director and ruin his career. So remember kids, lie, vandalize, and steal and someday, you too can have a bad movie yourself! "}{"Title":"Usual Fun Kids Film","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar (2002, Dir. Shawn Levy) 14 Year old Jason Shephard has one problem. He finds it very hard to tell the truth, which is slowly starting to lose the trust of his father. He is ordered to repeat the grade during the summer, if he is unable to get his essay in. When he is knocked off a bike by movie producer Marty Wolf, he accidentally gets his essay mixed in with Marty's papers, leaving Jason's story, 'Big Fat Liar' behind. Sitting in the cinema, during the cinema, he makes a huge discovery. Marti Wolf has made a movie based on his essay. Now Jason, along with his best friend, Kaylee set off to retrieve his paper back and earn his dad's trust back.A movie like this is really going to have one main target audience. The two young stars were two of the popular stars at that time, so this automatically attracts fans of Muniz and Bynes. This movie was also designed as a children's film, which limits to how well it can perform. It tries to make itself different a normal children's film, but rarely feels different. It's main location is a film studio, which can be a treat to both young children and film fans. There are some good moments, which really do try to make the audience laugh. I particularly found Grandma Pearl's training montage and Paul Giamatti's poolside dance amusing. You should really treat 'Big Fat Liar' more as a family film, which the young ones would definitely enjoy....Confucius say, Kastang! - Dustin 'Dusty' Wong (John Cho) "},{"Title":"Don't let the sugar-sweet hype of Frankie Muniz dissuade you.","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's becoming safe to say that I watch way too many kids' movies. After seeing a few scenes on The Disney Channel though, I realized this one seems to be a lot better than I and others have expected. Putting aside the fact that this is nothing more than an updated version of The Boy Who Cried Wolf, Let's start with a run-down of the cast;Frankie Muniz Would have nothing to do with Disney, if he hadn't played himself on an episode of Lizzie McGuire. This time, he plays Jason Shepherd, a habitual lying kid who's schoolwork gets stolen by a rotten-to-the-core movie producer.Amanda Bynes Clearly grew out of her old variety show in more ways than one, and has proved herself to be a teen-aged Jenny McCarthy. She plays Kaylee, his apparent best friend, and possible love interest. She's also great at imitating secretaries, which means she can be compared to Lily Tomlin as well. I told you she was talented in my review of All That.Taran Killam Before he was Jordan Cahill in Stuck in the Suburbs, he simply looked a lot like Jerry O'Connell. But he's not the nice guy he was in that movie. He's a bully, who hassles Jason and steals his skateboard, forcing him to be late for school. Worse yet, he's being tutored by Kaylee, but both pay him back.Paul Giamatta Marty Wolf, the villain of the movie. He's a scumbag movie producer who steals Jason's school assignment and uses it as a movie script. This guy insults everybody from cast to crew to even the head honchoes at the studios. But he especially insults his audience by making the crappiest movies that could possibly ever be made. And judging by the project he stole, it's not much better than his usual work.Donald Faison A limo driver and wanna-be actor who used to work for Wolf, who defaced his publicity photo. Needless to say, he wants in with Jason & Kaylee's new plot against Wolf.Jaleel White plays as himself. And as himself, he tries to ditch his typecasting as Steven Q. Urkel. Caroll O'Connor had an easier time ditching Archie Bunker, and working on one of Marty Wolf's crappy movies doesn't make this goal any easier. Unlike others who have to deal with Wolf, though, he refuses to take any crap from him.Lee Majors plays a aging stunt man. Hardly a stretch to say the least, but still enjoyable. Especially, when he gets caught up in Jason's revenge plot against Wolf, along with White, Jackson, Kirkham, Dusty, and others who had to suffer under his wrath. Luckily the ending isn't as disappointing as the original fairy tale.To make up for my habit of seeing kids' movies, I'm vowing to see a less than squeaky-clean Frankie Muniz movie this year called Parental Guidance Suggested, which also contains Margo Harshman in something other than a trashy horror movie. As for this one, while I have seen better, this wasn't so bad. It's certainly better than what a Marty Wolf picture would be if they were real. "},{"Title":"I give it around seven on ten","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Big Fat Liar is a fun movie, the kind of movie that is fantastic the first time you see it, okay the next, and snooze-down-boring the third time. I should know. I have seen it four times...fallen asleep twice. Why did I see it after the second time? My 10-year-old sister adored it. So I guess it's a movie that kids will love, but even for teens, it can get sort of...corny. After the second time. Frankie Muniz is pretty good, but the thing is, he acts the same in every single movie, though smart-alecky suits him better in Big Fat Liar than in the Cody Banks flick. But, still. It was a good movie. Frankie Muniz plays a smart-aleck who lies constantly and audaciously to get himself out of trouble and who has a not-so-lying but still quite drama queenish best friend, played by Amanda Baynes,whohelps him along in his quest to take revenge on a Hollywood producer who stole his English paper when his limo knocked him down on his way to the college to give the paper in. Jason (Muniz) goes to Los Angeles to get back the paper and to prove to his father that this was one case of 'cry wolf' for him. The Los Angeles scenes in Hollywood were awesome, but it was the step-by-step payback and breaking down of Wolf that really got to me. The funniest part, in my opinion, was when he went to that house as a clown and and got knocked down by those rowdy boys. I liked it because I've babysat for some, um, 'bad' boys myself. My sister thought the blue face part was great. I thought the movie would have been even better if there had been even flicker of romance between Kaylee and Jason, though. Still, quite a watchable movie, with bits of comedy and fantasy to spice it up. "},{"Title":"A reasonably amusing film for the family audience,","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  which is to say, silly enough for juveniles, but not offensively so.  The basic message is about the value of being truthful, but from an adolescent perspective.  The plot, however, is a bit thin, and many of the scenes seem to offer mere fluff unrelated to development, which becomes distracting at times.  For example, the girl is portrayed totally asexual, more like a boyfriend, and the two romp around on the movie lot doing goofy stuff for large chunks of time.  Why they cast a girl in that role is a puzzle, as there are no dynamics between them suggesting a need for such tension, and in fact she even dresses more like a boy than a girl.  Clearly, a girl as second banana could have added something to the story, but whatever it might have been they left it out. "},{"Title":"BAM! Loved it!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I know not why people considered it trashy or obnoxious; It's not like American Pie or something. I know not why people are offended by the Universal plugs; since it's part of the plot, the advertising is excusable.This is a funny movie with good dialogue, good subtle wit, a good story, a good moral (that thankfully doesn't get too sappy), GREAT acting, and a cheesy ending.(minor spoiler) The basic premise here is the classic story of a Shepherd boy (Muniz) who lies so much that no one believes him when the Wolf (Giamatti) comes along. So he gets his best friend Kaylee (Bynes) and they go and drive the Wolf crazy.Frankie Muniz can be annoying in other roles, but not as Jason Shepherd. He handles the suave confidence of his character perfectly well, and what appears to be a lack of expression at first glance is really a perfectly executed nonchalantness.Amanda Bynes. What more can I say? The girl's got the gift. She's funny, talented, versatile, and very, very attractive. (I'm only 6 months older than her. I need to get to California sometime soon.) In fact, the 'best-friend' part was originally a boy, but became a girl as soon as the makers saw Amanda's interest. Which works out pretty well, since the part would've been pretty dull without the blessing of Bynes's abilities.Paul Giamatti is a very talented man. While some would play Marty Wolf as evil and diabolical, Giamatti made him-not just a jerk, mind you, but a LIKEABLE jerk, a jerk that livens up the screen, rather than intentionally dimming it. And I doubt many other actors could pull off the psychological breakdown that Wolf undergoes as well.All in all, great movie. Loved seeing Jaleel White able to mock himself. Loved seeing all the little references & such built into the film. (one of the guests in the party scene is the director, Shawn Levy, another is Bynes's former co-star Kenan Thompson) Loved seeing Amanda in those outfits........ Get the DVD if you can. It's got all kinds of great extra stuff, and the lovely Ms. Bynes is your guide through the menus. ) "},{"Title":"Not bad, but it's no Ferris Bueller.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I probably would have liked this a lot more had I not already seen (and been a big fan of) Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  The central characters in both films are charming liars who always seem to get away with things.  The main difference is that the (main) target audience for Big Fat Liar is pitched about 3 to 5 years below that of Ferris Bueller.My kids enjoyed it whilst it was on but it failed the endlessly repeat the best bits after the film test. "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong whit","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well it might be a kid's movie...perhaps but i'm not gonna let my kids from 9 watch it!,so the one who say it is a kid movie hmm?!,it is teenager movie i agree..,so but back to the movie  it is about a boy who can lie very good..,so good that at the end nobody nows truth or lie.Anyway it is a nice movie to see nice screen play  i vote a 8 for screen play and story ...i think they writers mend a litlle lesson whit it...''the truth is never overated''. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Big Fat Liar is the best movie ever! It is funny, and cool. Jason Shepherd (Frankie Muniz) proves that he was not lying and goes to Los Angeles to Get his paper back from Marty Wolf( Paul Giamatti). Along with friend Kaylee(Amanda Bynes), mess up his life since Marty won't call Jasons' dad and say he wrote the paper! Yet it all turns out good and is a good movie to watch! "},{"Title":"Fun for everyone.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The always-appealing Frankie Muniz (Malcolm in the Middle) proves that even at the tender age of 15 he can carry the starring role in a major film.It helps that his co-star, Amanda Bynes, is equally appealing.There is a good story here lying will not get you what you want and if you lie enough people will no longer believe you `The Boy Who Cried Wolf' for this century.This is not a spoiler because anyone that has seen any of the previews or television commercials about this film will know the story...Jason Shepherd (Frankie), in an effort to make up a school assignment, writes a fable about a `Big Fat Liar.'  Then the nefarious and fairly slimy Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti) steals the story to save his rapidly sinking career as a film producer.  Wolf is the epitome of all that is bad about Hollywood.  He steals, he lies and he is not in the least bit likeable.This film does not look at the Hollywood movie-making machine with much sympathy.  But even so, the whole process of filmmaking is made to appear quite romantic.  Most of `Big Fat Liar' is filmed on the back lot of Universal Pictures -- and what fun it is!Dashing from continent to continent and city to city just by opening a door is overwhelmingly appealing.  This is a good film for the whole family with lessons for the kids, jokes for the adults and messages for everyone Lying is bad! "},{"Title":"cute,child-like, all in all a great movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to admit that I absolutely loved this movie. Of course as I'm sure you know that  Malcolm's in the Middle star Frankie Muniz, and the ever so sweet Amanda Bynes The Amanda Show starred in this children's comedy as two friends that I'm sure that we can all re-late to. The movie is about a boy Jason Shepard(Frankie) and his friend Kaylee(Amanda)going onto an adventure in Hollywood.SPOILERS AHEADAs it begins Jason is a typical 14 year old boy whom lies to get around every day life's problems. One day Jason is hit by Mr. Wolf(the big bad director). Jason's english paper is stolen by Wolf and begins the adventure along with kaylee to earn his father's trust back. They fly to Hollywood in search of Wolf to get him back. Frankie and Amanda do all sorts of crazy stunts to get Wolf back, and all he has to do is call Jason's dad and tell him he stole his idea. But the end is no real surprise, being the good proveles and wins.The story is cute and fifth grade humored but what do you expect it's rated PG. I really belive this is one of the years best family comedies. Not only is the childrens acting great, exceptional casting, well written, but it's good clean fun. It made me laugh as well as fall in love with it's innocent message. I highly reccomend it and would like to disagree with that someone who gave it a zero out of ten. The unemployed critic isn't unemployed for nothing. I give it (well i voted a ten out of ten) a perfect. "}{"Title":"It was all a little to convenient for him.","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" He just happens to have enough money saved up for a trip to Hollywood and his...uh girlfriend? Amanda Binds is a cute sick kick, but you don't really see her character develop. She just goes along with his plans supporting him. Her character has just as many strange conviences as Frankie's. Her parents just happened to be MIA over the summer and her old grandmother can't tell her apart from a 6ft. jock? That jock by the way, wouldn't give back a skate board, but will live with a strange old women and wear a dress for a few days. Also, what about his parents? Wouldn't they notice he was missing? The villain, Marty Wolf, was a hatable guy enough, but it took him just a little too long to notice he was BLUE! That driver was another strange convience. He just happened to have been mistreated by Wolf, as well? "},{"Title":"For adults, some parts may be funny, but that doesn't necessarily make up for the annoyances","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched Big Fat Liar a few years ago, when I was about 16 1/2 years old. I was a big fan of the popular sitcom, Malcolm in the Middle at the time, and knew that Frankie Muniz, who played Malcolm, played the starring role in this family comedy. If it wasn't for him, I probably wouldn't have seen it. During my first viewing, even though it's a kids' movie, I liked it. However, watching it a second time, a few years later, I was not so impressed, noticing some annoyances which I didn't remember from before! Jason Shepherd is a fourteen-year-old boy with a tendency to tell tall tales. On his way to get his creative writing assignment, entitled Big Fat Liar, handed in on time to avoid failing English, he crashes into limousine! Fortunately, he is not injured, but he requests a quick ride to his destination. Inside is Marty Wolf, a movie producer. When Jason gets out, he accidentally leaves his paper inside! He then tries to tell Ms. Caldwell and his parents what happened, but pays the price for all his fibs, as they don't believe him, so he fails the class and summer school is his only option. During the summer, he learns that Marty Wolf is making a movie out of his story, but once again, because of his many tall tales, he can't convince his parents that he wrote it! However, while his parents are away for a few days, Jason flies with his friend, Kaylee to Los Angeles to try and get Marty to admit the truth! Unfortunately, at first, they don't realize that Marty is a completely self-centred jerk, and revealing the truth about Big Fat Liar will be harder than Jason originally thought! After my second viewing, I'll admit that I laughed a few times, such as after Jason and Kaylee sneak blue dye into Marty's pool and orange dye into his shampoo bottle, with his reaction and what ensues as he drives along the road. (Using the Eiffel 65 song, Blue for that road scene adds to the amusement.) However, the occasional laughs were not enough to make to whole experience worthwhile for me. The movie has some pretty annoying lines, such as Kaylee, you got a plunger? I took a dookie and clogged up the toilet. Oh, no, look at this! What a mess!, which could amuse a lot of kids, but obviously not too many other people. There are some lines in the movie which may not be as bad as the one above, but they could certainly still annoy adult viewers. I also personally found a lot (probably most) of the story a bit boringSince I was an adolescent by the time the 2000s began, I haven't seen too many other kids' movies like this one that have come out sometime in recent years. I'm sure there have been worse movies of this type than Big Fat Liar, but remember, this IS a kids' movie. So, for kids who like slapstick and silliness, this movie could be very entertaining. Some adults might find it amusing to a certain degree (especially parents), while others would probably hate it. I'm somewhere in between those two, so that kind of view on the movie is possible as well. While I personally don't think much of the movie, I will give it credit for the entertainment value it has for kids (possibly some adults as well), and for the moral to the story, about telling the truth. "},{"Title":"I Am Not A Big Fat Liar","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Frankie Muniz plays Jason who is a high school student. His biggest problem is his life is built on small or big lies that puts him into trouble most times. However, he cannot escape from his teacher and he finishes his creative writing homework just before its deadline. While he is biking fast to hand his homework to the teacher, he crushes into a car. As he explains the situation to grumpy man(Giamatti) in the car, he gives him a lift to his school. But the problem is Jason leaves his homework in the car, the other way of saying this is Marty Wolf(Giamatti) steals it.After a few months Jason goes to a movie and sees a trailer that takes him aback. Because the story of the movie is based on his homework. He tells that to his parents but of course they don't believe him. Especially his father uses words which insults him. Jason decides to go to LA and find Wolf to tell his father that Jason is not a liar. When Wolf refuses it, Jason takes action and ruins his life.This is the short story of the Big Fat Liar. Well, as a kids movie it might be a light hearted one but there are some errors that even could would ask if that is possible. Such as, having such a small amount of money and going to LA with a friend to sort the problem out, having access to this cinema producer's highly protected house and office, setting up a telecommunications system overnight.Does it seem believable? It does not. Well this is a kids movie but kids are not that gullible.Big Fat Liar offers some little pleasure to its target audience. Unfortunately, I am not a big fat liar to say that this is a good movie. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"I was surprised by this great movie !","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When i saw this movie, i immediately think it will be bad, but i was wrong, Amanda Bynes is so a great actress ! And this movie totally rocks ! The story wrote by Dan Scneider is so funny that it makes me laugh and laugh and laugh ! Paul (man in blue) is hilarious and the young Muniz was also great ! You should to a look at this movie, just rent it in DVD, you won't regret it ! Personnal rating 4/5!Moreover, this film contains a deeply though about telling the truth. I mean, every body in that world always lie and lie again. I think, Jason Sheperd (Muniz) realized that sometimes, you must tell the truth even if it's hard to tell ! "},{"Title":"So Far So Funny","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is VERY hilarious and its storyline is also enjoyable. the leading actor Frankie had done a great job. He's a very cute kid. And the other supporting actors and actresses were also doing great. The length is suited and Im sure you'll be fulfilled with enjoyment!!   Recommend for FAMILY! "},{"Title":"A funny, feel good film... go see it!!!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In this movie, jason Shepard (the excellent Frankie Muniz) gets his school paper stolen by Hollywood producer Marty Wolf (the also excellent Paul Giamatti.) So Jason and his best friend Kaylee (the also excellent Amanda Bynes) take a plane to Los Angeles to get him to admit he took it. But when they get there, Wolf doesn't admit to it, and it's payback time for Jason. He and Kaylee live in a film supply warehouse, and with the aid of all the things there, revenge is sweet.This film has some great moments, such as when Wolf swims around in his pool which is filled with blue dye. The performances are excellent, the lines are hilarious, and the usual message which we get before we even see the movie makes us love it. Bug Fat Liar is a funny, feel good film... go see it!!! "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  To start off I'm not going to bore you with the usual boring terms Americans seem to use when describing a family movie. Terms like no, sex, no violence, no profanity. I'm no parent but if I were I wouldn't take my kids to see a good majority of the safe, boring so-called family movies. I'll just review this movie on it's own merits. I found this one to be very funny and entertaining. I found the humor sharp enough for kids without going over most kids head or talking down to them and with enough Hollywood in jokes to keep adults amused. The blue man gag and the Urkel cameo was particularly funny. Fankie Muniz, Amanda Bynes and Paul Giamatti were great. A nice balance in it's execution. "},{"Title":"boy cries wolf, wolf cries boy.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this is the greatest recreation of the class clown, underachiever, I love my teacher but I hate school vein of great american storytelling. Not since Our Gang have we had a Spanky and Darla who have wreaked so much havoc on a hollywood studio. Proving himself to his dad, and that his dad's approval meant that much to him, makes this a must-see family film. Amanda Bynes is great as the puppy-love buddy of Frankie Muniz and Paul Giamatti is excellent as the villain. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  And cute too. Big Fat Liar tells of a 14 year old boy (Muniz) who bumps into a film producer (who happens to be in his hometown making a movie) who gets his hands on the boy's homework assignment, a story of the title name, and turns it into a movie which the boy sees previewed. The boy and his friend (Bynes) then set out for Hollywood where they raise all kinds of hell in an attempt to wrest creative credit for the film from the evil producer (Giamatti).A simple David vs Goliath flick with obvious forces of good and evil in opposition, BFL is a fun comedy romp with great casting, an excellent score, lots of zany antics, and direction which is reminiscent of early John Hughes and Chris Columbus kid films. Good stuff for what it is and worth a look by anyone into kid flicks. (B) "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  BIG FAT LIAR, in my opinion, is an absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it. When Jason (Frankie Muniz - MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE) and Kaylee (Amanda Bynes - ALL THAT) played those tricks on Marty (Paul Giamatti - DOCTOR DOLITTLE), I really smiled and felt good. That's what I liked most about this movie. As a matter of fact, everything that happened after Jason's essay erroneously ended up in Marty's hands was hilarious. I especially loved Jaleel White's cameo. When I first saw him, I couldn't be certain, but, when I asked my mother if it was him, she said, Of course! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Like I said earlier, there is a moral to this story, and, that moral is, always tell the truth. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Frankie Muniz, Amanda Bynes, or Paul Giamatti, I highly recommend this absolutely hilarious movie with a moral to it. "}{"Title":"Awesome movie! Two thumbs up!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a great movie as I just saw this today. Loads of laughter. You will want to see this again and again. ) You have this 14 year old who has worked so hard on his English paper until it winds up in the hands of a Hollywood Producer who turns the idea into a movie and the boy travels across the country to L.A. and get revenge on him and claim that he'd written it. Great casting plus the director of the movie did a great job. Got to Give Shawn Levy(The Famous Jett Jackson series plus Jett Jackson The Movie director) credit. I recommend this film to anyone who is into laughter and adventure. This movie a a must see. I give it a 10/10. This movie include Jaleel White who played Urkel on Family Matters. Go and watch it and have a great time and a good laugh. I know me and the people who went with me saw it and liked it.  "},{"Title":"Finally a clean movie to take kids to.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a good clean movie; no bad language, no violence and no nudity. Unlike the awful Home Alone movies, I like BFL and found myself laughing out loud, in spite of not wanting to see it.  Our whole family enjoyed it. This movie is harmless fun only people who are forced to watch it will not like it.  They can watch Rollerball instead. "},{"Title":"what a great movie","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  im giving it a 10. i thnk this movie is charming and funny at the same time with great performances by Frankie Muniz, Paul Giamatti,Amanda Detmer and ecspecially Amanda bynes who is uttelry charming without trying.i like that its not like most kids films with fart and burp jokes. it gots really great one liners that maybe your kid wont get and but you will. now back to amanda bynes (who was just as great in what a girl wants), i loved her since all that where i thought she brought some kind of cute pressence to the show and then when she was the youngest kid ever(i think) to have her own variety show. im glad she doing roles like big fat liar and what agirl wants because she good a being funny, and above all charming.   "},{"Title":"BIG FAT GOODNESS","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Right from  the outset, this movie is a winning combination. We have two of Hollywood's most popular kid stars, Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bynes which both are on top form throughout. The director Shawn Levy is brand new (this is his first film) and in my opinion has done a great job.This is a funny movie. It's just the whole set-up of producer Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti) stealing Jason Shephard's (Frankie Muniz) paper and turning into Big Fat Liar. He needed that paper to pass 8th grade and now he's in trouble for saying this guy Marty took it. Jason sees the trailer for it and takes Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) to Los Angeles, get the paper and most importantly, get his dad's trust back. This results in running around Los Angeles playing tricks on Marty Wolf because he just won't give it.It's just so enjoyable and keeps you interested from start till the end. And how many movies can do that? "},{"Title":"A kids movie... If you ask me.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Since it has Paul Giamatti in it, I was expecting a good laugh now and then. Paul Giamatti delivered none... It was actually a pretty dull movie, where nothing really fun happens.Jason Shepherd, a 14 year old kid who often gets into trouble, and always finds a way out. By lying. One day he catches a ride by Marty Wolf (Giamatti), a well known movie producer. Jason learns that Marty is also a big liar, who thinks that The truth is overrated. Well, at that time, Jason agrees with him, but... Whatever.Well, Jason leaves the limo in a rush, and accidently leaves his story (for school) behind. Well, Marty reads the paper, and likes it... So he decides to make a movie out of it! When Jason see's the previews for it, he realizes that it is based on the paper he wrote, and that Marty Wolf stole it from him! Jason, and his friend, goes to Los Angeles to make Wolf confess that it was Jason's idea all along. But Wolf doesn't want too. Because he's a big fat liar. Or something.Not very many jokes, and only a few of them are funny. But none of them are hilarious. Not something I would really recommend to anyone.I give it a 6, for Paul Giamatti and the fact that it was at least watchable. And sometimes interesting. "},{"Title":"Wolf cries over boy","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Instead of boy cries wolf, wolf(in this case Marty Wolf, the movie mogul)cries boy( which is Jason Shepard, who plays pranks on him because Wolf is such a jerk).  This movie is definitely more for children. While I did like it, it didn't make me laugh too many times.  It is about a boy, Jason Shepard, who is a pathological liar and of course his lies finally catch up to him. He writes a paper in a last ditch attempt to pass a class, but looses his paper in a limo with movie producer Marty Wolf.  Now in the summer, Jason sees his story is now going to be a movie by Marty. So, he goes to Hollywood to make Marty admit to his parents that he really wrote the story.  Pranks are played, and comedy ensues.FINAL VERDICT  10 year olds will love it.  Adults will be slightly amused.  So, I wouldn't recommend watching this unless you are under 13 years old. "},{"Title":"Big Fat Liar","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   Big Fat Liar is one of those movies you see because it has a fun story. That was the main reason i wanted to see it.It was worth seeing.It was what it was made to be fun.It was also made to be funny.I did laugh but not as much as i had hoped.I would recommened this movie to people because it is a lot of fun to watch. The acting in it is very good.The only really bad actor in the movie was Amanda Bynes. I also found the hole thing with Mr.Funnybone kind of dumb.But other then that this is a very lightweight movie.I really found the scenes with Erkel very funny, even if younger kids won't really get it because he looks nothing like Erkel anymore.In closing i would give this movie a 7 out of ten. I recommened it to anyone trying to find a fun movie.   "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review OK for kids, not adults","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm an adult, but I see the occasional kids flick I think might be accessible. And I actually enjoyed Big Fat Liar up until the last big scene, which was straight out of the worst of 1970s Disney.With that exception, the film is modern and doesn't portray kids as miraculously more clever than the adults around them. It surprised me, and was hilarious many times, especially the performance by Paul Giamatti. Frankie Muniz is quite the actor, too. It's like an updated Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but instead of being a wiseass teaching kids to cut school, there is a more positive (if shallow) moral theme.Unfortunately, the genre as a whole (wacky kids vs. powerful adults adventure) has its limitations. If you want to see a wonderful one, see Cloak and Dagger (1984) with that child actor from E.T.Who should see this film-- kids, parents you'll get through it-- adults who see the occasional kids flick, but only on a rainy dayI'll give Big Fat Liar a surprisingly high 5 out of 10 because it was genuinely funny, but the ending devolved into yuck. "},{"Title":"Big, fat, stupid, loud, obnoxious, overbearing...","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Frankie Muniz plays a compulsive liar in the latest kid-flick, Big Fat Liar. He stars as Jason Sheppard, whose lies get way out of hand and land him in the teacher's office and getting in trouble with his parents. He has failed to hand in his latest essay paper and the teacher gives him a second chance. But on the way to deliver the paper, Jason is hit by a limo. In the limo is Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti), the famous Hollywood producer. He explains to Jason that lying is good and the truth is overrated. He reluctantly drops off Jason at his destination and goes about his business. But, Jason accidentally left his essay (entitled Big Fat Liar) in the limo. Marty reads this and thinks it's great, so he decides to turn it into a giant Hollywood blockbuster. Jason, who wants to prove to his father that this occurrence is not a lie, travels with his girlfriend, Kaylee (Amanda Bynes) to Hollywood to have Marty call his father and confess the truth.Big Fat Liar is aimed at kids, but I doubt even they would like it. The plot is on autopilot with the rehashing of The Boy Who Cried Wolf. The story is tired and lame. Big Fat Liar tries to put a modern day twist on it, but fails to do so and makes it even worse.Frankie Muniz is one of the most unbearable child actors in the bizz. With his scrunched up nose and his side-ways grin, he delivers his lines without any excitement, infliction, or emotion. Malcolm in the Middle is a decent enough show, but his bad acting brings it down. Big Fat Liar was doomed to begin with and he just adds to the unpleasantness of the movie. Amanda Bynes, who is a sweet and talented girl, tries to add a little sunshine to this black hole, but alas her efforts are useless and she is faced with a giant debacle. She has a lot of spirit, but sadly it doesn't go far enough. I feel she will have a strong career as a child actor.Paul Giamatti has a lot of spunk, too. In most films, he adds a strong wit to his characters and tries to add that Marty Wolf. But in the end he just comes off as a screaming idiot. There's a scene where Jason and Kaylee put blue dye into his pool and he turns blue because of that. The whole rest of the time he is blue, which is the majority of the movie, he rants and raves like a lunatic and never stops screaming. His character never lets anything go and that's what makes him so obnoxious. He's a loud, pompous, over the top, in-your-face kind of guy and it doesn't bring so much as a smile. Not even a forced laugh.Big Fat Liar doesn't get anything right. It's timing is all off on the comedy and the blatant Universal Studios promotion is shameless and brazen. Muniz has no sense of comedy so all of his jokes are forced. Bynes, who can be funny, isn't given anything to do except make strange voices and occasionally go crazy. The film tries for a wink-wink, nudge-nudge approach at spoofing Hollywood, but it's all been done before, so none of it is fresh or funny.What annoyed me the most was Marty Wolf makes Jason's Big Fat Liar story seem like a great motion picture experience. There's hype surrounding the production even before it begins shooting and everyone thinks the story is amazing. When Marty tells all of the Hollywood elite about the story, it's sounds incredibly idiotic and erroneous. It's sounds almost as dumb as this Big Fat Liar.Even if I were child, Big Fat Liar would insult me. I found nothing in the movie that would be even remotely funny to children, let alone adults. A major problem is that the film tries too hard. It's so big and obvious that all of the potential jokes go sour even before the punch line. Especially since people who haven't the slightest idea how to tell a joke deliver them. The only thing Big Fat Liar does get right is the short 87-minute running time. But even that feels like an eternity. ---------0/10  "},{"Title":"Big Fat Liar","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I suppose I can see why critics give this film two out five stars, it isn't fantastic, but I think it is worth a look, from director Shawn Levy (Cheaper by the Dozen, Night at the Museum). Basically 14-year-old Jason Shepherd (Malcolm in the Middle's Frankie Muniz) is often lying to his parents and teachers, and his teacher warns him that if he doesn't do his creative writing, he will fail his whole semester and have to repeat the grade during summer. So he completes his work, but getting a lift from Hollywood producer Marty Wolf (Paul Giamatti), who hit him on the way to school, he manages to leave his paper with the story Big Fat Liar in the car. He finds out from a movie trailer that Marty stole his paper and is turning it into a major movie, so he and his best friend Kaylee (She's the Man's Amanda Bynes) are on a mission to prove Jason is for once telling the truth. Marty of course is too nasty and smug to give Jason's father Harry (Michael Bryan French) a phone call, and he evens burns the Big Fat Liar paper. So now Jason and Kaylee are determined to make Marty's life as hellish as possible, until he agrees to call Jason's Dad. They put blue dye in his swimming pool, and orange hair dye in his shampoo, and much more naughty pranks creating chaos for Marty's career. There is the obvious point when Jason looks like he wants to give up, but don't worry, all characters that despise Marty help out in the final operation, and with Jason's parents coming, he wants to finally prove his truthfulness, and boy does he deliver, big style. Also starring Amanda Detmer as Monty Kirkham, Lee Majors as Vince, Donald Adeosun Faison as Frank Jackson, Sandra Oh as Mrs. Phyllis Caldwell, Russell Hornsby as Marcus Duncan, Christine Tucci as Carol Shepherd and American Pie's John Cho as Dustin 'Dusty' Wong. Muniz is likable, Byrnes proves a very surprisingly talented support, and even though he is wasting his time and talent a little, Giamatti is great at being nasty. It is a kids film, so if it seems corny, cheesy or predictable, just keep that in mind, and try to enjoy the performances and slapstick. Okay! "}{"Title":"The main question is can this movie get any better?","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is not only the greatest kid's film of its year, but a great movie for anyone between the ages 4 months to somewhere around 96 years old.  When Paul Giamatti is turned blue, I lose my breath. It is an incredible metaphor, although many may disagree. Our fearless hero, Jason (played by Shakespearean and longtime theater actor Frankie Muniz), is reminiscent of Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia. In other words, a character so powerful and awe-inspiring, it makes you believe that they are almost a second coming of good old JC himself. The scene where Jason (Muniz) and female lead Amanda Bynes try on clothes and props in the movie studio may make you laugh, but it proves to be the film's most poignant and memorable scene. This too is a metaphor, for trying different things in life. In other words, next time you feel like breaking into a movie studio and aimlessly knocking props over and wearing movie costumes that actually do cost money, do it. And that is an important message to get from the movie. "},{"Title":"It's a dog-eat-dog town","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My nine-year-old noticed the following canine references sprinkled throughout the movie  Frankie Muniz plays Jason Shepherd (like German Shepherd), and Paul Giamatti's chracter is Marty the wolfman Wolf. (Three lesser characters, Janie, Harry, and Carol, are also named Shepherd). "},{"Title":"Well, at least it wasn't Jimmy Neutron","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Is it my imagination, or is every movie that has come out lately been rated R?  Basically, what I'm saying is that being the minor that I am, it was either see this or Return to Neverland. Never-the-less I found this movie quite enjoyable, even if it is a little unrealistic.  But all kids movies are supposed to be that way.  This is a great movie to take little kids to, while the adults and some of the older teens can play count the insider j "},{"Title":"Funny, bright, goodhearted. Masterful casting! Excellent movie!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of those rare finds we usually only see two or three times a year. Big Fat Liar is made for older kids, but it is superb. It is funny, fresh, and so enjoyable that I predict most adults will come to love it. I laughed out loud several times, and never once looked at my watch. While all comedy must be a bit surreal, this one was goofy but also goodhearted and uplifting. Wow! Take your kids, yourself, the old lady-- whomever. Just go and laugh.The casting was amazing, and totally spot on. Frank Muniz is growing up into a powerful and interesting actor. As he grows and gradually loses his kid-ness, I think we'll like the person he ultimately becomes. The girl who plays his buddy is also intelligent and cute-- all without being annoying. Paul Giamatti is amazing-- usually able to disappear into whatever role he is currently doing, he nonetheless is getting known for a knack, a distinct vibe he fills every character with. Funny or serious (and usually funny; and in this movie extremely funny)--- we automatically care about Giamatti's characters. We don't think about it. We don't notice a serious movie moment coming on. We just get swept up into whatever he's doing. We believe everything he's doing. We are engrossed and entertained by everything he's doing. That's pretty rare. Muniz has it-- that girl may have it as well, if she stays in the biz. Right now, though, the elder Giamatti is a continuing joy and a delight in Big Fat Liar. "},{"Title":"Funny but...","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, I just want to get one thing straight I liked this movie. Frankie Muniz was funny. Paul Giammatti was hilarious. Donald Faison was funny. But there are some problems with this movie. Whoever saw this movie should remember that in the scene where Jason(Frankie Muniz) and Kaylee or whatever her name is(Amanda Bynes) are planning the attack against Wolf(Paul Giammati), Kaylee starts acting like some sicko on drugs. That is because if you look on the writing credits, you can see that Dan Schneider's name is under that category. That part when Kaylee acts like a girl on drugs is because that part is Schneider's work. I've seen some of the shows on Nickelodeon that Dan Schneider was associated with. This guy is a loser. He makes some of the stupidest jokes ever. He makes talented actors and actresses act like they are retarded retards. If you've seen The Amanda Show and Drake & Josh(both Nickelodeon shows), you would know what I'm talking about.Bottom line This movie was very funny and fun for the whole family, but that one scene that I was talking about really gets to me because Dan Schneider is a FREAKING LOSER!!! HE SHOULD BURN, THAT ROTTEN, FREAKING SON OF A B--CH!!! IF YOU LAUGH AT THAT ONE SCENE IM TALKING ABOUT, GO GET YOUR HEAD EXAMINED!! That's all I have to say.7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I've seen this year, why does Hollywood keep spitting out this kind of garbage into public eyes. Couldn't they just hide it in some archive somewhere in Mexico and let it be forgotten. Even though this movie is meant for an younger audience, i expected better, with actors like Paul Giamatti its hard to believe that it can get this bad. The only thing that actually is as bad as the plot is the acting of Amanda Bynes. Gosh! I hate this movie, and will recommend every single person i meet to not watch this, and i will definitely not let my kids (if i get any in the future) watch this movie, or anything else Shawn Levy, Dan Schneider and/or Brian Robbins have made. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Big Fat Junk","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Probably one of the worst movies ever turned...I thing none of the actors (kids or adults) have ever played before...or will ever play again!Th jokes are rubbish, everything is unrealistic, and you just have a succession of not-funny-kiddish-pranks, that lead to no special situation.And it starts in the very beginning! Take a look at the class  have you ever seen a classroom like that? A real one, where kids sit all day? NO!The only thing that kept me awake during the movie is trying to spot scenery from other movies  Return From The Futre, E.T., Gladiator (I think)... But it's not worth it! "},{"Title":"The worst film of 2002","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is really crap.The story-I don't know does this movie have any story?Especially the idea of young boy to go to Hollywood to persuade H. producer to tell his father that he is not a liar.Are you kidding me?This movie is 87 minutes wasting of your time.The only thing that I liked about this movie was music.That's one point more.But still2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie....","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To quote Roger Ebert, I hate this movie. Hated hated hated hated hated this movie. Hated it. Hated every simpering stupid vacant audience-insulting moment of it. Hated the sensibility that thought anyone would like it. Hated the implied insult to the audience by its belief that anyone would be entertained by it.I think that that sums it up.However, many would argue that one must explain why one dislikes a movie. Well, to be fully honest, I don't believe that this movie even deserves that luxury. However, in the interest of hopefully sparing at least one soul from two or so hours of torture, I will endeavor to perform this unearned action.The movie was full of really odd, poorly-done segments that didn't fit well together. For instance, Frankie Muniz rides his bicycle into a limo. He then tells the people inside that they hit him, and that they have to give him a ride to school or he'll, well, I guess tattle on them. The reason he's going to school is because he completely blew off an assignment that was a huge part of his grade, or something, so the teacher gave him an extension, which he's trying to make. If I'm not mistaken, his project was a story about a liar. However, Muniz leaves the project in the limo, and the man in it happens to be a Hollywood producer who steals this (extremely horrible, almost as bad as this movie) script.When Muniz tells his family what happened, they don't believe him. So, in an effort to prove that he was telling the truth, he travels to L.A. with his friend (Amanda Bynes she can be lovable, but movies like this and She's the Man... well, I guess I hate hate hate them); well, wouldn't any kid who wanted to prove he wasn't lying to his parents go to such extreme measures, even risking their lives at various points, just to say, I told you so? In any event, he's not exactly a well-to-do kid anyway; him doing his work was apparently quite uncommon for him. So why shouldn't he be blamed and get a taste of the real world?Perhaps I'm taking this a bit seriously, but even relaxed, non-serious movies can still be good without having to resort to, well, I don't know what exactly... I suppose, whatever qualities that made me hate hate hate this movie. Things like kids traveling 1000 miles and risking their lives to prove to their parents that they weren't lying about something relatively trivial.I like Giamatti, but I have to request that this great actor pick much better films in the future (though it seems he has with Sideways and Cinderella Man; good for him), because the very notion that a producer would steal, let alone like, the extensively stupid script developed by Muniz's character is so very insulting.I urge people to not say, This wasn't meant to be serious... it was just supposed to be a little fun. Well, had the producers, writers, actors, etc, been more serious in working on making it not serious but still good, it might have been a little more fun. But they weren't. And it isn't. It's just a big waste of film and 2 hours of your life.My use of superlatives is not in any way unnecessary. Humanity as we know it will become dumber (see, this movie already has me getting stupider) after viewing this movie, and if enough people view it, brains will become mush, the stock-market will crash, politicians will unknowingly launch nukes at each other, aliens will exploit this and invade earth, and we will be reduced to the very lowest levels of quality in film-making.If I can save one person from viewing this film, my life will have been worthwhile. My existence will not have been pointless, and I will die a consoled man knowing that the earth is better for my having been here. "}]