[{"Title":"The Best in a long time","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"50 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to to see this film almost by chance and I was rewarded by a gem. A truly sublime mix of musical, social comment and romantic movie-making at its best. Unlike many others I was not familiar with Mira Nair's work at all, but after having seen how she delicately handles child-abuse, pre-arranged-marital-infidelity, growing old and trying to be different as an upper middle class Indian boy, being a flirtatious, bored but basically settled non-resident Indian housewife, or being a too well-doing for your own class wedding-parties producer desperately seeking for love - I have surrendered!This is a Great Film by a Great Director and you might not want to miss it... "},{"Title":"One of the most brilliant movies I've ever seen","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding was perhaps one of the most brilliant films I have ever seen. It took me somewhere I'd never been, and by the time two hours were up, I felt at home.A lot of the film's success was in the acting. Talented portrayals of deep complex characters who can make you laugh and cry in just minutes. I was amazed how easy it was to keep tabs on no less than 5 separate subplots without getting the characters mixed up or losing interest. Another key to Monsoon Wedding's success was how the camera told as much story as the actors and dialogue. Lingering shots on a character who doesn't seem part of the action revealed so much more than dialogue could.And the most amazing thing - this film was made in 30 days!! Couldn't believe it. Fantastic production values, mind, not like many other Indian movies I've seen. And down-to-earth realistic, not like Bollywood. Yes, there is singing and dancing, but in context, not every five minutes! I don't have anything against Bollywood, but I'm glad to see that there is a higher standard of Indian film-making out there. "},{"Title":"Happy India","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is full of joy. Happy, cheerful, with so many characters, and most of them good, interesting ones. It is the story of a wedding in upper class Delhi. A large family spread all over the world reunites for the big event and all the ties and feelings between siblings, cousins, parents, friends are shown and expressed in a light but touching way. Love, friendship, envy, pain, sorrow, loneliness, passion and hope in a nearly perfect mix. This movie is full of colours and music,  and it is an accurate portrait of modern India (the wealthier part of it at least). All actors are good, and some of them are gorgeous too. Very refreshing as there are no super stars, no blood, no perfect special effects, no sex. Mira Nair you are great ! Hope you'll give us many other movies this good. "},{"Title":"Exactly and approximately superb!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Delhi, the wealthy father of the bride (Lalit, played by N. Shah) prepares an elaborate wedding. We meet his extended family, arriving from as far as America for the wedding, beginning with a formal engagement party 4 days before. Several subplots are followed Additi, the bride, has chosen an arranged marriage instead of waiting for her married lover to leave his wife. Ria, her cousin, has never married and is being pestered by all concerned. We learn that Ria's father, Lalit's big brother, has passed away and so Lalit is her father-figure as well. Dubey, the wedding organizer, becomes smitten with Alice, Lalit's maid. As the days pass, family joys and family secrets are revealed.I cannot praise this movie enough. First of all, kudos to N. Shah for a sensitive, complex portrayal that never, for a moment, feels like acting. Without hand-held camera pretensions, Monsoon Wedding nonetheless feels more like meeting a family at a big affair than watching a movie. It is real and intimate, yet magical. All the performances are good; Rajat Kapoor as an uncle with a secret is particularly powerful, and bears a striking resemblance to a younger Donald Sutherland.We see Indian society as India sees it. My coworker, Sreeman, tells me that everyone attends neighborhood weddings; that an average wedding has 800&#150;900 guests, and his had 1200. Traditionalism matters, but modernity matters as well. At one point, Lalit and Dubey argue over the wedding tent; should it be white, the modern (Western) way, or should it be colorful? Lalit demands color and Dubey orders the old kind. The struggle between modern and traditional ways is one of the primary undercurrents of the film, embodied by Additi's choice, in fact, we meet her married lover as the host of a TV talk show discussing traditional versus modern ways.Another undercurrent is finding love, impediments to love, and choices about love. Additi, Dubey, Ria, and another cousin, Rahul, all have barriers to overcome before they have a chance at happiness.But the main theme is family, and this huge, chaotic family is a wonder to behold. You can't always tell who's related to whom, but you get the sense that they can't either, and coming from a large, extended family myself, I know that's how it is. Family is everything to Lalit, yet he communicates harshly with a son he doesn't understand, and calls nephew Rahul idiot. Yet his love and devotion are clear, and he is the real hero of this film, coming through for everyone and stretching himself to the limit. "},{"Title":"emotional","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're expecting an exotic India kind of movie, you'd be better off not seeing it. This is a contemporary film, and it's made with love. Acting is terrific, and it becomes obvious that actors had so much synergy while working on the movie. Only a very cynical person wouldn't be emotionally touched by the story and the characters. A great film to see with your significant other on a weekend. Warm fuzzy feelings all the way! "},{"Title":"Irresistible Combination of Realism and Good Spirits","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's only March, but I already nominate Monsoon Wedding as one of the best movies of the year. Yeah, we've seen ethnic weddings/family gatherings before (Lovers and Other Strangers, Wedding Banquet, The Godfather, Avalon, What's Cooking, Tortilla Soup, among others), but this is still an original.Not just because it takes place in India, not just because the characters come in from the Indian diaspora of IT jobs in the U.S., Australia, and the Middle East to the old homestead, and switch between Hindi and English mid-sentence, and switch comfortably between tradition and modernity. But because these are completely wholly-formed, original characters and a sophisticated story. Yeah I was confused sometimes about who's related to whom, but from the rebellious teen-age boy dreaming of being a chef, to the bride with a secret lover, to the Houston engineer come home for an arranged marriage, to the complicated intra-family obligations and past positive and negative interactions, to cousins, aunts and uncles who genuinely love each other -- all are fully realized and completely believable, being both very individual and very universal. Only a smidgen of a coincidence in the last moments of a too neat happy ending for a very sympathetic character mars the story, but understandably the audience cheers at the end. A bonus is the wonderful use of Indian music -- I have zero idea if it's folk or Bollywood music they're singing but the soundtrack is exotic and exuberant as the characters use it to liberate thoughts and feelings within the structure of wedding rituals, with dancing as well. Stay through the credits as the ritual continues. I'm ready to go see it again any time I'm feeling down. (originally written 3/11/2002) "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the Year","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie. It was the first DVD I bought when I got a player. The story is rich and full of meaning, the actors are wonderful and the music is awesome. As another reviewer mentioned, I am trying to pass the word about this movie to everyone I can. PLEASE just don't compare it to My Big Fat Greek Wedding! That movie was cute and maybe more people could relate to it, but that is because it lacked any real substance. I didn't hate it, but it doesn't begin to touch Monsoon Wedding's issues family, trust, abuse, love, grief, joy, tradition and oh so much more. When you are done seeing this movie, you want to see it again. And my first time I did just that. I watched it one evening and got up and watched it again the next day. Now, I consider this a really substantial movie, but I have to be petty for just one moment and say... hot Indian guys! I mean HOT! All right,I digress. This is the best movie I have seen in a LONG time.  "},{"Title":"Delightful visual and emotional experience","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film.  As the movie progressed I quickly formed a bond with the characters and felt they were all my close friends and I was somehow involved in the story.  I truly got caught up in the emotion and the evolution of the story and frequently laughed and cried.  Although the wedding was the climax of the film, it was not what the film is about. The colors were exquisite, the music and dancing delightful and the people gorgeous.  The acting was superb.  If there was anything negative to say, I did have some trouble understanding some of the dialogue because of the accents and fast talking.  But I intend to see it several times more. Thanks for a great film. "},{"Title":"a lovely piece","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This weekend I rented 'Monsoon Wedding' from director Mira Nair.  I had heard good things about it, so I picked it up.I had no idea what to expect, but between this and 'Bend It like Beckham', I think my new addiction might just be Indian cinema.  'Monsoon' is the story of a family celebrating the arranged marriage of their only daughter to a well-off (and hot) young man who has been working for the past few years in the States and came home so his parents could pick him a bride.  The bride is trying to get over a recent indiscretion with a married-and famous-man by throwing herself into the marriage, though it seems pretty clear she would rather be anywhere else.  The film gives a fascinating overall view of the amazing intricacies of a traditional Punjabi wedding-four days of festivities!!-while deftly presenting several dramatic and touching stories, from the obnoxious wedding planner falling for the maid, to the cousin who is trying to deal with having been abused as a child, only to end up facing her abuser at the wedding.  The cinematography is gorgeous; a lot of handheld shots give a strong sense of realism, and what a color palette! Over the weekend I rented this I watched it three times, and I'm going to have to buy my own.  Definitely an A picture.  "},{"Title":"Not Bollywood nor Hollywood ... but better","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this beautiful film for the third time. The first time I saw it, I really liked it. The second time I got more out of it and I liked it even more. I just finished watching it with the director's commentary and I can honestly say I had no idea how good this film actually was! It was shot entirely on location, in just 30 days on a very low budget with a cast of 68 and only a handful of them were real actors! (A great deal of actors who were originally cast in this movie pulled out at the last minute or didn't even bother to show up) I guess that is the beauty of this movie though. Nair wanted to capture the essence of the Punjabi people in a true setting. She didn't want to go for the big elaborate sets where people spontaneously break out into a big song and dance number like you see in a lot of Bollywood movies. Nair wanted her characters to start singing because that is what they do. One of her comments compared Indians to the Irish as two cultures who love to use song. Throughout the whole movie, you get such a feeling of reality as if you are a voyeur who is really looking into these people's lives. They are lying naked and vulnerable before us. The character of Alice really stood out for me. Tilotama Shome's talent radiated from her and I found myself wondering what other films she had done. In Nair's commentary, the answer was revealed ZERO. Shome was an English Literature student in Delhi University. The scene wear Alice is pretending to be a bride (like a child playing dress up) is so simple yet so powerful and beautiful. I have a few reviews stating that Tilotama was miscast as the maid. That she was to elegant and self aware to play such a character, however, that is exactly what Nair wanted in the character of Alice. Nair wanted to make a statement about people. Our beauty and presence comes from within our soul, not from our lot in life. Tilotama Shome can have a brilliant career ahead of her if she wants it. It is also worthwile to mention two more exceptionally powerful performances by Vijay Raaz (who was a struggling actor before this movie) as Dubey (Alice's love interest) and Shefali Shetty, as Ria (who has a dark secret that can ruin the binds of family) These three performances were outstanding, but the entire cast was incredible. This movie is definitely worth seeing, but I really have to recommend you watch it like I did - more than once. It really is worth it. "}{"Title":"And they all lived happily ever after!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was skeptical at first about seeing this movie. I'm not into Bollywood movies at all. I saw this film with a high school senior class in Newark, New Jersey and they were captivated by the film as well as myself. Mira Nair is becoming one of the world's best known film directors as I write this review with Namesake on it's way to release. The characters were fully fleshed out rather than just caricatures. Who didn't love the wedding planner who curses like a sailor and the servant who succumbed to his charm and spell? Who didn't love the actual couple based on arrangement between families? The bride has a secret that could have destroyed or stopped the marriage. My sister's friend is probably going to be married in New Delhi herself. I wonder how similar and different the wedding and reception will be. From what I know about Indian weddings, I can invite you which means you, your family, friends, and neighbors. They appear to have a really good time at weddings in India. There was a serious topic that could have dampened or ruined the movie but it was well-orchestrated by the director. "},{"Title":"A dance in the rain..","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding is an ode to family, to fun, to the joy of celebrations.. Made on a meager budget of 1 million dollars and shot in thirty days, the film gives us an inside look into a Punjabi family. Lalit Verma (Naseeruddin Shah) and his wife Pimmi (Lillette Dubey) are in the throes of preparations for the wedding of their daughter Aditi (Vasundhara Das) with Hemant (Parvin Dabas). There is a foul mouthed wedding planner P. K. Dubey (Vijay Raaz), a demure maid Alice (Tilotama Shome), a cousin Ria (Shefali Shetty) with many secretes in her eyes, countless other cousins, aunts and uncles. all gathered in the house. Aditi thinks she is in love with her married boss but eventually realizes he is just stringing her along. The wedding plans go on apace, with an engagement, a Ladies Sangeet and finally the big day itself. But the oppressive heat prior to the monsoon also brings many troubles and past traumas out to the fore. Lalit has to make difficult choices but in the end like a cleansing monsoon down pour his decisions heal past hurts and make the wedding celebration in the rain more joyous.The movie is anchored by exceptionally strong performances from Naseer Shah, Lillette Dubey, Vijay Raaz, Tilotama and Shefali Shetty. Other more minor players also do a very good job. The movie is full of moments that one can identify with, laugh at, weep at and generally get maudlin over. My favorite scenes are Naseer constantly calling the Aussie cousin idiot, the dance number at the post engagement party when the whole crowd joins in (I wanted to dance in the aisles too), the dynamics between Mr. Dubey and Alice, the song Aaaja Saanwariya Tohe Garwa Laga loon as Mr. Dubey goes to his Old Delhi home...This is a fine film that celebrates family and is a great one for repeat watching. Mira's directing is deft and the movie is extremely accessible to audiences the world over. "},{"Title":"Down Memory Lane!","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching this movie was, for someone such as me, who had fallen in love with Delhi and NSD(National School of Drama, New Delhi), almost simultaneously (no, I was not a student there; I just went to watch their plays) more than a decade ago, a journey down memory lane. And not just me! Many of my friends, who spent a considerable time in Delhi at some or other point of their life, agreed with me on this point. In the words of one of my friends,Monsoon Wedding is a documentary about Delhi.. For me, it was thrilling to view the places near Jama Masjid, where once I spent many afternoons at my friend's home, (and surely, nor far from where Dubey's residence would be!) after so many years. But then what can I do? We are like that only.This movie has some of the best Indian actors, such as Naseeruddin Shah, Khulbhushan Kharbanda and Rajat Kapoor in it. But the guy who beats all of them and steals the show is our Dubeyji, Vijay Raaz. I had noticed him first in the movie Jungle, where his portrayal of an almost silent (had he taken Omerta, by any chance?) bandit-gang member was excellent; but in Monsoon Wedding, his portrayal of Dubeyji beat all these first-rate actors. I've been a great fan of Naseeruddin Shah for quarter of a century now; but in this movie, my vote goes to Raaz.The most striking feature of this movie is Mira Nair's ultimate attention to detail. (I think this is also a major factor that adds such authenticity to the character of Dubey!). From the Hindu ritualistic red-thread worn by Shah on his wrist (it must be put for the movie, Shah being a Muslim in real life, or was it that his real-life Hindu wife made him wear that!), to the pair of shorts worn by Raaz, Nair & Co. has painstakingly paid enough amount of attention to details. A Dubey would surely dress, talk and carry himself the way depicted in this movie. His choice of profanities are the most authentic that one would hear on the streets of Delhi. Alice and Ria also put very powerful performances!This movie took me back to Delhi, and to the corridors of the Univ. I (and Nair, much before I, for that matter!) once walked on. Anyone who loves, or plans to fall in love with, Delhi should watch this movie, because as Mauz once said, Who would go away, Mauz, leaving the labyrinths of Delhi behind? (Kaun jaye, Mauz, Dilli ki galiyan chhod kar?).Notes The following is in response to some of the comments by Western reviewers.1) Just because he addresses his nephew as idiot, the bride's father is not mean and abusive; this is just a term of endearment. I guess, this is just a matter of cultural difference; things that are accepted in the Orient may be completely offensive in the Occident, and vice versa. This reminds me of the autobiographical note by the Egyptian born Nobel laureate, Prof. Ahmed Zewail, whose (toally accepted and used in the Arab world) figure of speech I will kill you terrified a classmate at Caltech (or was it Berkeley?).2) Some people thought that the two guys sharing a bed (when the young girl offers a kind of striptease show to the Australian guy) was a hint at homosexuality; it was not! I don't mean that homosexuality does not exist in India; but it's quite common in India for people to share a bed when there's a shortage of beds (especially when a number of relatives and guests come down for, say, a wedding, to stay overnight, and then mostly younger members of the family are pushed to share beds.). Note Robert de Niro and Hervey Keital slept on the same bed in Mean Streets, but they were not gay either!3) Would the maid and the wedding planner be allowed to dance with the upper-class family? My Answer is I think, yes! Most of the Punjabi weddings include Whiskey/alcohol in the menu (at least, for the important guests), and once you have alcohol in your veins, Universal Brotherhood (Bhai-chara in Hindi) prevails. I, in spite of not being a Punjabi or a Native Delhiite, took part in such wedding dances myself at times, and had seen with my own eyes such situations. "},{"Title":"Singing in the Rain...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair has outdone herself in this film by giving us such a glorious look at India's upper classes during a pre-arranged wedding. She has such a sense of color and spectacle, yet she doesn't beat around the bush in presenting us the reality of the situation and treating it with dignity and realism.The hypocrisy of Bollywood is legendary by not attacking issues in their films, yet they are real and need to be addressed. The mere fact that this bride is not what she's supposed to be on the surface, is an eye-opener. Then there's a relative who is a pedophile and who has hidden behind a benevolent facade only to pry on the little ones of his own people. This is the first time I have seen such frank treatment of a troubled family, who is very happy, on the surface.The acting is first rate with outstanding performances by Mr. Shah, as the father of the bride and his daughter, Ms. Das. Not only that, but Ms. Das has one of the most beautiful faces in the Indian cinema and certainly deserves to be seen anywhere with those gorgeous eyes of hers.The weakest part, I thought, was that of the romance of the party planner and the maid. I mean, HELLO, Ms. Nair, do you think for one nanosecond this uppity family would have allowed the maid and her newly found love participate in the wedding party? I don't think so!The color of Delhi's streets, the magnificent wedding costumes and the glorious background music are used with knowledge and a sure hand by Ms. Nair. Having seen all her films, we await eagerly for more of her view of her home land. We can even go singing in the rain after seeing the film! "},{"Title":"one of the best films I have ever seen.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bar none.  This one is a reaffirmation of life and love and thecommitments that bind the two forever.  Forget that you don't reallyknow anything about Indian culture or language.  It speaks thelanguage of the human heart -- and that is always universal.  I can'twait to watch this one again, and strongly encourage everyone tosee it.  "},{"Title":"This is India!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had no difficulty with the language and the subtitles. After all, this is how I speak ;-).As a non-resident Indian living in the US for three decades, the film reflects the reactions of my family and friends back in India every time I return for a visit.The story revolves authentically around the way rich, cosmopolitan Indians live. (I was not one of them, but I have been to the houses of richer classmates during my college days.)Mira Nair has shown how to have the cake and eat it too. The movie has many elements of typical Hindi movies (music, dance, and convolutions)without the inanities.As a traier, I had a group of participants in a cultural diversity workshop watch the movie. We then debriefed the audience to locate universal cross-cultural simiarlities. "},{"Title":"The Rain is coming... and so is the Family.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ''Monsoon Wedding''is a cute film about an Indian family and their problems based in their culture and beliefs it's the daughter Lalit who is going to merry, is the son and Lalit's brother who doesn't look very male, is the cousin Ria who is getting old to get married and stuff like that. Of course that we always have a reason or a problem about the causes Ria is not married because she does not trust in men, since she was molested as a kid, Lalit is going to merry, but she does not know if she really want that, since she likes another man who has nothing to do with the guy her parents wish for her. I cannot say that ''Monsoon wedding'' is so great as ''Lagaan'' or ''Mission Kasmir'', but it is also a great way of knowing or watching more about the Indian culture for sure! "},{"Title":"7.1? But why?","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's surprising how often the ratings belie the movie or vice versa. This movie is an entertaining collection of love stories which deftly cuts across so many barriers,whether they be cultural, social, class or religion. It is funny in a very real and potent way and the character development has been executed to great details in an effortless fashion. That probably is one of the hallmarks of a really gifted director.The story revolves around the preparations of an Indian arranged marriage. The main characters are the bride,her father and a marriage arrangement contractor. All dealing with their own constraints and still trying to give their hopes wings. What is remarkable is that this movie has characters who show courage when they have a lot to lose and win higher rewards like love,trust and self-respect in the process. Kudos to the Monsoon wedding team! "},{"Title":"Mulangtany Soup.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A good recipe of Indian food is neither bland nor too spicy, like Mulangtany Soup, a perfect blend. If any Indian Film Maker (more like Non Resident Indian Film Maker) who can make best of the masala, that would be Mira Nair. The story is superbly woven, with characters that are indelible. The cell phone wielding Dube, played by Vijay Raaz (a new find from Nair) and his love interest, stand out and shine. With all the melodies and enchanting choreography in the Hindi films, her choice of a mediocre Chuiniri-Chuniri number is not only sad, but shows immaturity in her knowledge of Hindi films. This is a movie that shows the vibrant colors, the intricacy of the intimate relations with gay abandon. It is not surprising that this is the only Indian movie that has been seen by more people outside India, than in India-to the tune of thirty million-that is testament to the talent of Film maker, in the caliber of Mira Nair. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's a movie which is not made for arty cinema lovers per se. It captures the craziness surrounding a typical North Indian wedding. I liked the lead characters since they were credible and interesting. They were so normal people unlike mainstream Indian cinema from Bollywood. It made me chuckle at times. -gg "}{"Title":"Wet bride, cheerful film","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was screened at the Venice Film Festival and I saw it there. When I came out of the theater I was happy, this film filled me with music, colors, a positive attitude towards life. It shows that it is possible to make a good film without special effects or sex scenes or blood dripping everywhere. If you have a story to tell, then you may have a good film, and Mira Nair has made it. The film is crowded with characters, the members of a family gathering together for the marriage of a young woman in New Delhi we trace their stories, retrieve facts and feelings about their lives, get to know them, even when drama is behind the corner and the past seems to mix with the present. The family is not without flaws, yet the marriage is eventually celebrated as monsoon rain pours down to wash away their faults. Wet bride lucky bride, we say in Italy. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, wonderful!!","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! The first reviewer did such a good job, I won't bother going on and on (well, okay, just a bit.) It was a very human movie. BUT I gave it an eight rather than a ten because I thought it pandered to 'Hollywood' a tad too much. The pedophile ... too much over the top. Too 'Hollywood writer cr*p'. The girl making out in the car with her married lover... same thing. Maybe it's a bollywood thing.... bollywood Hollywood, perhaps they are more alike than not.However, the scene where the 'good' uncle makes the 'bad' uncle (and his wife) leave... so very human, and such a very human handling of the 'bad uncle's' behavior. If this film had been made by Hollywood rather than Bollywood, the 'bad uncle' would have been arrested, but first he would have been beaten to a pulp by the young girl's 'kinfolk'. Probably better that it is a bollywood film -- not quite so predictable.The Dubay guy... you start out disliking him and then he sees Alice... badaBING go the STRINGS of his heart, and then suddenly he has a different face.... he's someone you can imagine loving. Amazing transformation.This movie is a woman's movie, for sure. I must run now, and tell all my women friends about it. "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *This may contain spoilers*For me it was more like watching a home video than a movie. Indian Punjabi weddings are like that, loud and colorful, people coming in from practically everywhere, weird uncles and aunties who just don't know how to mind their own business, cousins coming in from abroad who have no clue whatsoever, IITian settled abroad. This movie never fails to entertain me, i must have seen it 20 times but every time i find something new in it. The most disturbing part was the issue of incest brought up. A lot of people feel it's uncommon in India but the sad reality is, it's not. It's very common, the thing is people hardly come out, it's under the covers and we have to accept this reality. The wonderful part was, a lot of people got to know about the issue and took notice. My father cries every time he watches the movie, esp. the scenes related to Shefali. I loved Naseer's character, he was like just another father cribbing over money spent on he marriage at the same time, being the happiest man on earth and going to every extent to ensure a great wedding. Every character in the movie was well sketched in terms of having their own unique characters, Dubeyji being this harassed wedding planner in love with the house maid, that aunty from Australia who has her own story to tell, the brother being a little anti social and a bit feminine according to the father (which was really cute, the relationship), the mother who smokes in the loo, the young cousin trying to impress the boy, loud uncle. Shefali's character was beautiful, her past and her present just gets twisted when the uncle enters the household and how she tries to protect her cousin. I have always liked movies which show strong human tendencies & human relationships and this was one of them. This movie was a huge hit abroad as well just because, people could relate to the movie. It is everyone's story, me, ur's, anyone's ! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Hollywood-Bollywood mix!","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie caught my attention accidentally this afternoon on TV and it held me till the end.I've always appreciated highly the rarity of unexpected film pleasure.This kind of surprise is surely unique.I've read about this movie before so it didn't take long (actually 20 minutes) to find out what I was watching!Anyway , it's a really delightful film. Colourful both in image and emotions.Modern in its own strange way.By all means worth seeing.I'd say it's a great Hollywood(40%)-Bollywood(60%) mix.The one with exceptional direction , cinematography and on screen performances.This first impression compels me to award it with a rating as high as 8,5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A Sublime Mix of Emotions, Traditions and Celebration!","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It cannot be called a true Bollywood movie, but it's a true Indian movie, rich with human elements which can be felt by any person. Tradition vs Modern ways - it's the underlying element knitting the sub-plots together.Mira Nair's romantic dramedy 'Monsoon Wedding' has genuine likability value, filled with colour and energy. All the comedy, love, commentary on social issues, and drama are blended well with the music, dance and celebration. Mrs. Nair knows well how to delicately but gracefully deal with the human elements depicted in the movie. Declan Quinn's cinematography and Mychael Danna's score help us to be a part of the festivities.The characters are brutally real, relateable and charming. The unsure bride-to-be who still hasn't gotten over her past relationship, the completely occupied father-of-the-bride dealing with debts and responsibilities, the bored but committed mother trying to find meaning, the usually bad-tongued wedding planner trying to find love, the unmarried cousin still in pain from her childhood molestation trauma - all these and many such characters just fill the story with brimming honesty. The actors have done a brilliant job. "},{"Title":"Monsoon Wedding-- A sincere attempt to capture many colours of life.","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding is one of the very very few Indian films for the educated global audience. I had been keeping myself away from watching this film for more than a decade. Thanks to the regular diabetically sweet and intellectually starved Bollywood films. Nevertheless, I am more than glad I finally watched this one.Mira Nair's film presents a voyeuristic view of an ordinary next door type North Indian wedding. The story revolves around not one but many well developed characters brought in together for a wedding on a rainy day invigorating hues of different emotions in the viewer.The film honestly tries to bring out the true dimensions of human relationships in a society where the imperfect things in life are swept under the carpet as if they cease to exist. Along with joy, fun and frolic of a colourful nuptial, the film offers glimpses of issues such as child sexual abuse, homosexuality,incest and infidelity with plausible sensitivity and intelligence.Probably, that is what sets this film apart from any other Indian film. Although India is a minefield of sub-cultures,customs and traditions, I recommend this film to anyone who would really like to have a much fairer comprehension of India and its people. "},{"Title":"my big fat Hindustani wedding","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit that I don't really know much about East Indian weddings, so what I saw in Monsoon Wedding was totally new. Focusing on the various events and revelations surrounding a wedding in India (no, this isn't a South Asian version of My Big Fat Greek Wedding), the movie is really something. I will say that as for director Mira Nair, I liked her Mississippi Masala better, but this one is still interesting. We may think of Indian movies as over-the-top musicals, but this shows that there are other kinds of cinema coming from the subcontinent. The only cast member whom I recognized was Roshan Seth (you may remember him from Gandhi and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom).All in all, a pretty neat movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful window on contemporary global India.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an excellent film and it's a terrific place to start for anyone who has never seen India's traditional Bollywood cinema. All of the traditional devices are there dance sequences, singing (although the two lovers do not sing to each other), parallel loves between two rich persons and two poor persons. What made the film outstanding was (1) the mixture of India and India abroad and (2) scenes showing the clash between the poverty on the streets and the lower class homes and the jangling of traditional ceremonies and modern values -- from fancy night clubs to racy behavior among the younger generation. It's a real treat -- and it's reality to boot.But 8, not 10. The sound mix made it hard to pick up some the English with the India accents, especially at the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"Nice and different","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A drama-comedy giving an idea of the life of a nearly wealthy Indian family in New Delhi, which contains various elements of the current life of wealthy and economically medium Indians. Poor people as well as parts of New Delhi are only seen in some scenes. The music and photography are fine, and the plot is highly ethic going around a marriage of a young Indian lady with another young Indian who is living in USA. The film also criticizes in a subtle way prevailing conventionalism in love relationship and other behaviors. India as any other country is under the influence of globalization, and although its population is higher than one billion, part of it living in poor conditions, there is also a large proportion of wealthy people living outside India, who in one way or another influence the changes of the society. In general I was glad to see this material, which gave me some entertainment and new vision of an unknown world. "},{"Title":"You all are invited to my daughters wedding","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  thats exactly the feel what i got when i saw the movie.It was  so young , lively, fresh energetic.......But so homely.Its been more than three years since i attended any marriage but when i saw this movie in my Hostel room away from my home it all came back to me.The good thing about the movie is that it makes you feel as if you are no different and you are a part of the family. Mira Nair captivated on the essence of Indian wedding , which is soooo beautiful,this lady has got the mettle and already she has proved it many times.another thing what i liked in the movie is it simplicity none of the scenes were exaggerated and they bring out the best human emotions on screen ,what a delight to watch.The movie represents the contemporary India,just like any other family in the movie too they have their internal problemsIt was not a yash chopra genre movie where everything is perfecthuge sets n all and thats where Monsoon wedding sets itself apart.In the past few years after HAHK bollywood witnessed many marriage oriented movies but Monsoon Wedding is of a diff league A class cinema. 8.5/10PS- Its very nice to see that so many non indians are also taking interest in the movie. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly beautiful, thoughtful, humorous and wonderful film about the human spirit, the importance of family and the healing power of unconditonal love.  The acting was strong, the script was great, and the men were FOYNE!  I loved especially Parvin Dabas who played Hemit (the romantic interest/fiancee of Aditi). This is Mira Nair's strongest work to date.  I am glad to see other people enjoyed it, too. "},{"Title":"Weddings are the same in any ethnic group!","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally charmed by this movie.  Many people in the Western world think that Eastern people are different.  This movie shows that every family no matter what their ethnic background go through the same angst and have the same wedding jitters as anyone around the world.  These were totally likable characters.  The slipping in and out of English and Indian languages didn't bother me at all.  It was good that there were subtitles.  This was a totally feel good movie with the right amount of adversity and drama, mixed with comedy and romance.  I think it's a great family film. "},{"Title":"This is why I love foreign films!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious! Daring! Brave! Naseeruddin Shah (Lalit Verma) & Lillete Dubey (Pimmi Verma) are brilliant has parents of a bride-to-be. Couldn't take my eyes off the screen! Rarely do you see films so illuminated with color. You've never heard music like this before! It's in good company with powerful & beautiful films by women from IndiaDirector Mira Nair (Hysterical Blindness) has given us another simply charming & irresistible film! Brilliant!  Sizzling and Sexy! Truly Romantic! Gorgeous! You will fall in love with it! Tickles your funny bone while igniting passion in the heart! I didn't want it to end You have to see it - to believe it! Monsoon Wedding is enchanting! A film that has it all! "},{"Title":"Joyous and sprawling","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Monsoon Wedding director Mira Nair expertly knits together a joyous, sprawling story about a wedding, an affair, and a love-sick wedding planner. Nair is aiming her camera at life in modern day India, but still holds onto many of the traditions of Bollywood filmmaking. Monsoon Wedding is full of life &#150; interesting characters, bright swirling colours, fabulous Indian music &#150; and like one of Nair's previous efforts, the Oscar nominated Salaam Bombay, seems poised to break through the cultural marketplace and become a mainstream North American hit. Also check out the marvellous score by Winnipeg-born Mychael Danna. "},{"Title":"Such a fun movie!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well... i was at first very skeptical about this Indian movies. they are usually not my cup of tea. I wasn't suppose to watch this movie but i was asked by my dad. I have to tell u I have never enjoyed an Indian movie like that. This movie is so lovable, the people are so real by maintaining their Indian identity and really trying to connect you to them and make u understand where the mentality of the Bollywood industry comes from.  "},{"Title":"Analysis of self-determination themes","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding is everything that modern American romantic comedies try to be.  By combining intelligence, humor and emotional depth, Monsoon leaves the viewer with an impact deeper than usually experienced.Monsoon Wedding is basically a film about finding one's place in life. There are about five main characters the plot follows, and each of them is struggling with who they are and who they want to be.  The older daughter is engaged to a man selected by her family though she's in love with a married man.  The father has long relied on a family friend for financial support and is laboring to plan the wedding.  The wedding planner has fallen for one of the family's servants as he deals with his mother's insistence that he find a bride. All of the above examples are establishment issues.  The human mind doesn't like chaos or uncertainty.  However, we live in an imperfect world and there is always a struggle to at least fine-tune an aspect of our lives that causes us grief.  The fact that every character in Monsoon Wedding is facing this challenge speaks to the fact that it is a unilateral experience.  We want to know where we've been, where we are and where we are headed.The older daughter seems to be having trouble with all three of these concepts.  She is struggling with where she's been (her heritage) via her arranged marriage.  She is in love with someone else and really doesn't want to marry this strange man.  She is forced to go through all the traditions preceding a marriage while unhappily hiding her true feelings, not wanting to upset custom.  But eventually she realizes that her lover isn't the man she thought he was and decides that her selected fiancé is the right one with whom to continue the rest of her life. The father of the featured family has a lot going on in his life over the course of the movie.  He of course has to plan for his daughter's wedding with his limited funds.  He has to deal with a young son who wants to be a dancer.  Finally, he is forced to confront the family benefactor who the father finds out is a child molester. This is difficult for the father because he owes so much to the molester. The father doesn't know if he can confront him without sacrificing a part of himself.  It is an illustration of the phrase `you are known by the friends that you keep.'  This molester has supported the father's family for so long and to such an extent that the father doesn't know how to deal with it. Also struggling with the issue of one's place in life is the woman who was molested by this man as a girl.  The audience is to understand that her parent's have died and so she has lived with the father's family.  This feeling of displacement was no doubt exacerbated when she was molested, and you can tell that throughout the movie she feels removed from the family.One needs to know where they stand in their life, and this film exhibits people having trouble with this.  I'm sure it is especially troubling living in India, where there is such a collision of old and new traditions. "},{"Title":"The bride","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hallmark should take notesThe Hollywood-Hallmark corporation that has been piping in our ideas of love and romance for the past as long as I can remember has nothing on Monsoon Wedding.  Mira Nair does an excellent job of taking an overly used theme, weddings, and giving it a personal touch that reflects the ideology of Indians both young and old. As a typical American viewer, whatever that is, I was able to get a sense of the way a wedding takes place in Indian culture.  This is conveyed through many ways, most notably to me was her use of native traditions such as the singing and dancing that takes place through out the movie.  These things show us the way that a family and each of its members know the specific role that they play.  Weather it is the middle age women singing to the other women on the day before the wedding or the young woman who does her sexy or entertaining or traditional dance at the night before party.  The father lets us know the importance of the man's role throughout the movie by working to get the money together for the wedding and by trying to make sure that his son is an educated professional something. More than just the particular wedding of discussion this movie also shows how the institution of marriage is regarded in India.  Dubey is for all his apparent wanting to be Americanized, is actually longing for marriage both for himself as well as his mother, showing that in this society a man is at least in the eyes of women judged not only by his profession but more importantly by his family.  The mother of the bride to be explains during a brief moment that her and her husband had only met two days before their marriage implying to her daughter that every thing is going to be alright. How this differs from Hollywood movies of the same basic premise is that instead of getting a lopsided dose of the two main characters in a vain attempt to show both romance and love, the viewer is introduced to a variety of characters and as I stated earlier their roles in the family environment, which translates into their roles in the movie.  By depicting a wedding that has been arranged the director does not need to focus on building a romance story but instead is allowed to capture the little moments, which anybody who knows knows that they are the ones that count anyway.  However as a side bar we are also shown that romance and romantic meetings and acts do take place in the courtship process of young Indians, expressed through Alice and Dubey.  In what seems to be more of an American Hollywood style the relationship of these two characters is, as cheesy as I can, ripe with romance.  This makes for an interesting contrast to the main marriage were the idea of a lack of romance is not only implied but also discussed (in the taxi by the soon to be bride and her cousin).  By having many things going on during the lives of the many different characters we are able to get an interesting perspective on India and how marriages effect and are played out in such a family oriented society. "},{"Title":"May Contain Spoilers","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding is a film filled with bright and vibrant colors and sounds.  One of the most interesting things about the sound is the language used in the film.  The characters speak in English, Hindi, and Punjabi.  Not only does the movie use three different languages, but sometimes they switch between all three in a single sentence.  All the different languages emphasize the variety of characters in the movie. However, even though the languages switch so often, it switches with great ease, and it is easy to understand every word said in the movie.Another element of the sound that stands out is the singing and the music. While it's easy for us to see that they are living in the 21st century, because of the cars they drive and the electronics they use, the music they sing in their wedding ceremonies really emphasizes that they still use ancient customs and, in a sense, are traditionalists.  We can also see this with the mix of languages.  It seems like the older grandparents were the ones that never switched languages, always using their ancient Hindi language.  The more modern characters could freely switch languages, showing a new diversity. An element of the film that did seem to stick to India's traditional roots was the beautiful bursting colors.  Throughout the entire film bright yellows, oranges, reds, and greens are used, but this idea of color really confronts us when the wedding planner, Dubey, is setting up the tent for the wedding.  The tent he is using is white, which seems normal to any American that knows the tradition of the white wedding.  But the second the father of the bride in the film gets a sight of the boring tents he demands it be taken away.  Dubey informs the father that it is the newest trend, I believe he says something to the effect of, `it's very 21st century'.  However, the father will still not stand for it, and demands a more traditional and colorful tent.  The wedding is also filled with huge stands of bright orange marigolds that also seem to serve as a snack.  All of the dresses and tunics of the participants in the wedding are also brightly colored.Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding is bright, vibrant, colorful, and filled with tradition while moving into a new century.  The color adds to the beautiful images of the film, and the traditional and more modern sound keeps us all aware of exactly what's going on in the story, because the language is so easy to understand despite its rapid switches.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair, thank you.  Thank you so very much.  The mess of life,the joy of living, the confusion of being alive!  I saw SalaamBombay so many years ago. I've seen Pather Panchali.  Aparajito.  The Life of Apu.You know, I am reminded of Do The Right Thing, your coloursexplode in a joyfull expression of life.I do not wait to be asked.  I tell them that Monsoon Wedding isextraordinary, I will rent it twice, I will buy it.  It is exactly what Ibelieve in when I talk about cinema.  Mira Nair, I cannot thank you enough. "},{"Title":"Film review","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler Universal's Monsoon Wedding is a vivid film portraying of the life and culture of an Indian family centered on the only daughter, Aditi and her wedding.  Mira Nair, a female director of India decent, directed the film. This film carries her unique style of filmmaking along with a theme of romance and love which is usually a constant in most of her films.  Her style of filmmaking in Monsoon Wedding can be described as very contemporary film, yet with it she brings a documentary aspect to the film.  Her incorporation of cinema verirte systematically appears through out the film, but in form does not relate at all to the plot or story line itself. Which is one of the reasons that this film can be criticized for falling short of an international film, for the basic reason that Hollywood cinema style can easily be seen, taking away from the different aspects to the Indian life and culture. Throughout there are many scenes in which the film incorporates this contemporary theme of how America is starting to influence India and its people.  A portrayal of contemporary cinema is seen in the added dramas' needed to be in place of this wedding for affect.  The absolute stand out in the film is the unnecessary aspect of a relative who comes from America and has a pedophile relationship with a young girl for it only to be discovering that this has happened before with Ria, a relative, when she was younger. This underlying theme takes away from the film itself and the plot of this scenario can easily be discovered between the reaction of Ria and the American relative when they first interact in the film.  Lastly, of course it the typical happy ending mostly applied to contemporary film where everyone is happy and every one finds new love in his or her life.Nair's influence of cinema verirte feebly attempt to show the real life of India and their culture most definitely falls short of what I would assume a realistic look into the present day lives of India.  The first problem with this is the fact that the family although seems to have money problems, one would feel that they are higher class than the norm.  Then her attempts to incorporate average lives of the people of India are mostly subtle evolving around the wedding and the family, but a few shots are brought to attention in the film.  Such as the scenes that take place in the market along with when Aditi is riding in the car and a few shots are taken in a first person point of view with a cinema vererte aspect displaying venders and workers in the city.  The only cinema verirte that my actually fit into the story line is when the wedding planner, Dubey, who states how he is very well off is seen at his home which is not what a typical western view of well off is. Monsoon Wedding does succeed in giving insight to many aspects to India and their traditions about weddings.  Through this the many themes that usually accompany India film can be seen, for instance, the soap opera aspect to the wedding and wondering of Aditi's commitment to her arranged marriage, as well as, the many lives which find love between complete strangers. Another is the simple traditions of singing and chanting which one would assume to be common in wedding preparation.  In the end, the film accomplishes its main purpose fulfilling the story of an Indian wedding and the melodrama included in it.  Though as for cinema verirte, the film lacks the strength to realistically describe a typical wedding in India with its contemporary style and overall feeling of the wealth of the family. "}{"Title":"The definition of a feel good picture","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Just because a romantic comedy is Indian doesn't make it any better', I thought to myself.  And as I came in to the movie, I was very stubborn about liking it, but eventually it won me over.  But for the last minutes of the movie I couldn't help but smiling.  Monsoon Wedding did so many things right I don't know where to begin.  First, the characters; there are so many characters in this movie that it seems impossible to make them work without being contrived stereotypes.  Maybe some people saw them like this, but I really felt like they were fleshed out well.  We don't need an hour of screen time to develop a character when you can learn so much from a glance or a single line.  For example when the pedophile uncle first makes an appearance, the look on both his and Ria's faces let you know exactly what is going on.  This could go either way of course, it could be that we know what's going on because we have seen the same thing countless times on Lifetime, but I give the benefit of the doubt to MW and say that it is just superbly done acting and editing.  We get the same feeling with the initial meetings of Dubey and Alice.  The painful awkwardness and obvious tension between them feels excruciatingly authentic.  Throughout the film we see very small scenes and pieces of dialogue that tell so much.  We spend very little time with many of the characters but we feel like we know their whole lives.  The relationship between the bride and her ex lover when they meet in the car, the friendship between the mother and her sister as they remember their honeymoons,  the background of the Australian, the obnoxious uncle, etc.  There are so many people in this film, but they all come together and we get a feel for all of the characters which is very hard to pull together when there are so many people.  The same technique that we familiarize ourselves with the characters is used to tell other details. The direct conflict between old/new and east/west in India is very prominent, but it is entirely understated.  The scene on the golf course, the argument over the wedding tent, the music, the mobile phones, the drinks, the clothes, it all blends together to make one interesting cocktail.  I think one reason the film endeared itself to me was its shear beauty.  The colors are so vibrant and lively, and the shots are composed so artfully.  Some of my favorites were when Dubey is working in the yard lovesick.  Also of special note were a few shots that were completely out of the narrative.  Especially while traveling.  There was a shot from the back of a bus (I think) that just caught the rain and the distortion so nicely, the distortion and the camera movement worked together so well to convey a mood of confusion and sadness.  It almost looked like a bit out of an art film.  Another thing I liked about the film was the way song worked into it. In most American films I see the musical numbers are entirely forced and out of place in the film.  In contrast, the song and dance numbers in Monsoon Wedding flow completely with the story.  You don't even notice it's a musical sequence, it just seems like part of the natural flow of the movie, and it doesn't hurt having such catchy tunes.  The last thing I will rave about is the camera work.  The many instances of the handheld camera and the in your face style brought a real nice verite style to everything, adding to the realism of everything.  Also nice was the breaking of the frame, as you mentioned in class.  The camera in many instances seemed less like an omnipotent eye, and more like a POV shot of an unmentioned character, you. There are probably problems in Monsoon Wedding, but I didn't notice any in my one viewing.  I came out of the theater in a daze of happiness, a true feel good movie, not dwelling on any mistakes that may have been made, but remembering all the subtle touches, the rare spices added in such small amounts to be hardly noticeable, but without them this stew wouldn't be as unforgettable as it is.  "},{"Title":"first Bollywood movie I've ever seen","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A peek into another culture much different from that of the United States, that's what I thought Monsoon Wedding, was going to be.  Monsoon Wedding was nothing what I expected.  The movie surprisingly had many parts that reminded me of an American wedding, and American culture in India.  I would also like to comment on parts of the movie that were distinctly different from American culture.  One of the most visible scenes in which American culture is depicted is when the father of the bride is on the golf course and every one is talking English calling everyone buddy.  I think this might have been said continuously to poke fun of the U.S. a little bit.  Next is the close up of the magazine that the bride fell asleep, with the U.S. magazine Cosmopolitan.  The Tattoo of a scorpion on the woman's shoulder also seemed to shock the brother of the bride telling me that it is not normal for Indian woman to have, but is all to common in  America.  The huge wedding is also resembles most American weddings.  The parents of both the bride and groom spending huge amounts of money on the wedding.  In this case such a large amount of money that it puts the bride's family into dept. There were some behaviors shown that are not typical in American culture. Like the mother of the bride smoking in the bathroom so that the groom's family would not find out and think less of her.  The way that they greeted one another was different from the standard hand shake in the U.S. another unusual behavior was that the father and mother of the bride slept in separate beds.  The painting of the hands of the bride, the dress, use of color, and only one flower to be used for the whole wedding is different then most American weddings.  Along with these cultural similarities, and differences the movie played out like a soap opera.  There were many on going story lines that all intermingled with the preparations of the wedding.  The largest was that the bride to be was sleeping with a married man which until half way through the movie she was in love with.  Then the groom finding out about the other man, and deciding not to stop the wedding. The two of them falling in love even though their marriage was arranged. Next was the bride's brother falling for one of the women that came for the wedding which he has to win over by proving he's still Indian by dancing with her in a traditional dance. Another storyline was between the manager of the wedding and the servant girl.  Their love advances though the movie until their marriage on the same day as the marriage he has been working on. The father of the bride having the hardest time of all during his daughters wedding. He has to deal with the preparations, the money, the fact that he's losing a daughter, and his sons with he makes out to be big disappointments. The older one being called idiot through out the movie, and the other younger bother who likes the arts.  The father of the bride thinks this is totally unacceptable telling him that cooking and dancing are no good, and to for get about them.  Last and not least is the uncle whom you find out is a child molester.  This causes major conflict in the family because up until the end the uncle has been the savior of the whole family.  He took every one under his wing in their time of need and now you find out he molested your bothers daughter that you have been raising as your own.  After much thought at the end the uncle is asked to leave the home right away.  I find it interesting that when the uncle is told to leave by the father of the bride he dose so repeatedly in English when a lot of the time he speaks Indian.  Especially when he is mad our yelling at is older son saying what an idiot he is. "},{"Title":"Monsson Wedding directed by Mira Nair was a great film.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding directed by Mira Nair is a film about an India family marriage.  This film is one of the most effective examples of an India family ever put on screen.  It displays events ranging form delightful to serious and appalling situations.  The two families are about to collide when Aditi is promised to marry Hemant.  The young couple meets for the first time properly at their own engagement party and they are left with only a few days to get to know each other before there big wedding.  This movie, taking place where the Indians speak both English and Hindi captures much excitement and energy as we get to know the whole extended family. Family members form both sides have traveled from both America and Australia to join in wit he celebration.  Aditi's mother and father have a lot to do and their family and friends make it to be more complicated then it actually is.  Aditi's father is excited about the wedding and you see him throughout the movie very frustrated and nervous trying to get everything ordered and perfectly arrange for his daughters wedding. The biggest problem is Aditi is currently having an affair with a married co-worker that sends a twist right before the wedding.  The four-day arrangements and celebrations help show some of the Indian wedding traditions.  You see family parties, drama, lot's of music and dancing and a new romance for Dubey the wedding planner and the household maid, Alice.The great filmmaking and the use of hand held captures camera scenes is an important setting in the movie.  The hand- held camera movements give the movie a sense of a more documentary style film.  With frequent arm limbs in the shootings you are able to capture a better sense of this.  The use of combining the traditional American family style marriage with the traditional Indian style marriage gives this movie style by playing around with these differences and letting the audience see the differences.  In the movie Dubey starts putting up a white tent to display a more American traditional wedding but to the Indian dad white is meant for a funeral and he demands a color tent consisting of reds and oranges.With combinations of warmth and laughter, music and dance, romance and serious problems, Director Mira Nair has made this movie a family entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Let's dance in the rain!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***Spoilers throughout!!!***Family from all over starts arriving at the house in Delhi, the planning and preparation goes on at a fevered pace, the wedding takes on a momentum of its own as the groom arrives from Houston to meet his  bride for the first time. But she's getting out of a relationship with a married man, her father has overspent on the preparations and there are tensions here and there amongst the relatives. If you think this is a typical, sappy wedding movie just moved to a different setting, it isn't!Outstanding performances by Naseeruddin Shah as Lalit Verma, the father of the bride, and Shefali Shetty, as Ria Verma, his niece, make this a film worth seeing if just to appreciate the talent of these two actors. Mr. Shah in particular offers such a strong, nuanced performance that it makes me want to see everything else he might have done.Of course, there is much more to appreciate here as well, and most of it has been mentioned before The  glimpse into upper-middle-class Punjabi culture, the simple yet effective hand-held camerawork, the use of color and music and dancing, the wonderful overall casting (a plethora of beautiful men and women who come off like real people) and the effective interweaving of two major subplots. As a side note, unlike some others here, I found the use of English/Hindi code switching to be fascinating and felt it lent authenticity to the film. Heck, I even learned a couple of words!In the first important subplot, we really begin to care about wedding planner P. K. Dubey, convincingly played by Vijay Raaz. Though he is a comical and somewhat annoying character from the start, we want his courtship of Alice to succeed. When they marry, we feel even happier for them than we do for the other bride and groom. (As for those other two, it may or may not work out, but at least they'll give it a try.)The second major subplot is much darker, involving a relative who is a child molester, yet it is handled very carefully and delicately and actually ends up making the final scene more explosively cathartic. Ria's courage in speaking out to protect a young cousin (sister?) is vindicated. The right action is taken by Lalit, regardless of his indebtedness to the molester for a lifetime of help. When Lalit effectively banishes him from the family, Ria feels the liberating protection and love of her uncle.The weakest element of this film is its editing, especially in the first half, where we are shown scenes we don't need and which don't feel part of the whole, such as the talk show segment. As for the intercutting of the Delhi street scenes, I like the idea very much, but perhaps this is the one place where more formal camerawork was required.Also, although it has been mentioned before and it may have even been intentional as a way of emphasizing the complexity of extended families, the viewer never feels quite confident enough about the family structure. We don't need it spelled out exactly who every single person is, but just a couple of additional lines here and there would have clarified this enough to allow us to spend less time wondering `who is he?' and more time enjoying what was going on. That said, this is an intoxicating film that just keeps getting stronger as it draws you towards its cathartic, exuberant, rain-soaked ending.Though not flawless, Monsoon Wedding is a delight from Mira Nair. 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Simple And Sweet","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair's simple love letter to large families is terrific, filled with wonderful characters and funny situations, the antithesis of Robert Altman, whose `A Wedding' and `Dr. T & The Women' mined similar territory but in a dysfunctional, exploitive way. Like Altman's films, there are several storylines running concurrently. Here, they surround the arranged marriage in Delhi of an upper middle-class girl and the fiancé who has come in from Houston for the nuptials. Even though each story has some dramatic conflict to it, they're so airy and romantic you never doubt their happy outcomes. (Only one, featuring a secret held about the one less-than-sympathetic character, has a resolution that isn't rhapsodic--but even there, it's triumphant.) There's something sweetly naïve about Nair's firm belief in the transcendent power of love she finds it just about everywhere and if it isn't there, she puts it there. Lest it all get a little too cloying, Nair keeps everything immediate with a hand-held camera that has no problem zooming in for some revealing close-ups; she revels in her characters imperfections and doesn't remain passive--she's like a mother, not above taking sides or chiding those she feels need to be gently reprimanded. Her huge cast (there are dozens and dozens of speaking parts) is warm, confident and--though it takes place in an exotic locale--familiar; but it's Vijay Raaz as the snitty wedding planner humbled by the discovery of true love who steals the show, a heartbreakingly real performance that grows increasingly more powerful as the film progresses. The enthralling musical score is by Mychael Danna and the colorful production design is by Stephanie Carroll. Stay for the closing credits into which the actual wedding is interspersed--it tells you everything you need to know.  "},{"Title":"A true delight","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very few movies include you. Most movies keep you away, you are distantly watching, wondering if you will be included. This movie invites you into the lives of this family. You experience the highs and lows with them. The intimate moments with a husband and wife in bed together, his vulnerability completly exposed, it's beautiful. I loved the music so much I ran out and bought the soundtrack. The music is perfectly placed and created an exciting wedding feel. Weddings aren't always happy and perfect, how can they be when the whole family is together. Drama and caos always follow. But it's nice to know that happiness prevails. I loved this movie and can't wait to own it. "},{"Title":"Possibly the sexiest movie you'll ever see.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Monsoon Wedding' is indeed about a wedding, an arranged marriage for Aditi, the daughter of the middle-class Vedha family of New Delhi, and what happens to them and all the many other people involved in the festivities. You are immediately thrown into their world noisy, chaotic and an fascinating mixture of Indian traditions and Western affluence. Cellphones and fast cars mix with saris and rickshaws, people effortlessly switch between Hindi and English, the groom is a computer programmer from Houston, the barman is from Melbourne. It's a refreshing look at cosmopolitan modern India, which I tended to either associate with ancient monuments or crowded slums.The planning is an frantic, organised mess, as I imagine preparing for most weddings it. Still, things seem to be going well there is so much laughter, music and colour it is almost impossible not to get dragged into the joy of the occasion. But there are unpleasant secrets beneath the surface. The father is struggling to finance the wedding. The bride is having an affair with a married man. And darker things. The film is full of such contrasts women delightfully singing a love-song while a lonely servant cleans up, young people flirting while a woman remembers the old terrors, filth lying in city alleys while above the sun sets on the skyline of rose and gold. It is a heady, exuberant mixture of comedy and romance that sometimes threatens to become a tragedy.There is nothing clever about the plot, indeed it could easily have become corny if it was not for the excellence of the acting and the quality of the production. Nothing is overplayed. We feel like we are looking into a real world with real people. 'Monsoon Wedding' is rich in emotion and spectacle, a vibrant and touching film. And, without being explicit, it is also very, very sensuous. You will not regret taking someone you care about to see it.8/10  "},{"Title":"i think it was done very well, enough so that id like to see more.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ok first id like to say im not to familiar with the customs from that region, but i saw the  movie anyway and i liked it. the different story lines, the colorful characters, the music. i was really pleased with the ending.i might go so far as to i was moved, by the entire movie. i think it was done very well, enough so that id like to see more.  "},{"Title":"Joyous account of the trials of putting on a big wedding in modern day Delhi. Subtitled. 4 and a half Flys Out Of Five","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The woman in the audience with me who giggled repeatedly  through Monsoon Wedding, along with the five or six Aussie/Indian little kids who chatted away delightedly during the film, added to the charm of a very good time at the cinema.Monsoon Wedding, directed by Mira Nair (Salaam Bombay!, Mississippi Masala) along with writer Sabrina Dhawan have concocted a delicious wedding punch of colour, vivacity, romance and drama. Monsoon Wedding is an uplifting celebration of the best and worst of humanity set in modern day Delhi.Very well to do Aditi Verma is to be married to Hermant. It's an arranged marriage. Hermant lives in the U.S.. Still they're not children, they're in their thirties and they're modern young adults. Aditi has been having an affair with a TV talk show host. Needless to say Hermant has his doubts too.Aditi's Dad Lalit is also juggling problems of enormous proportions. The wedding is to be a huge and very expensive show. His wedding is being organised by what looks to be a shifty con man named P.K. Dube who, as played by Vijay Raaz, appears both shifty and comical. Getting the money together increasingly becomes more of a task.Monsoon Wedding follows the time honoured traditions of Bollywood, the thousands of films that have been produced inexpensively for the huge mass market Indian domestic film industry. Monsoon Wedding also has a sophisticated multi-layered complexity that lends itself to the best of Hollywood films, particularly to perhaps the movies of Robert Altman.A lack of production gloss doesn't detract in the slightest from just how clever Monsoon Wedding is though. A thousand times in this film the camera whizzes about, tantalizing us with just glimpses of the richness of humanity. The editing of this film is superb.Of course we're treated to some exuberant singing and dancing numbers, coloured by those peaking Indian melodies and with flashes of eyes and midriffs.There's a ridiculously romantic scene concocted with marigolds and candles and a wonderful dance routine in what looks like some sort of empty swimming pool.There must be twenty major characters, a moment of extreme pathos, and at least twenty moments that will encourage you to smile. At one point you might feel like cheering.The young children having a chat just livened things up even more.4 And A Half Flys In Pokora Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Non-Bollywood Indian Entertainment","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film in Mumbai, where though I missed the sub-titles that made my appreciation of its humour clearer, I was surrounded by the atmosphere of a large Indian crowd, the plaintive cinema advertising (Please do not spit or urinate in the street!)and the positive expectation created by friends who had already seen it back home and enjoyed it.The characters are wonderful and the film is well scripted to make maximum money by appealing to an international audience, making it easy for Americans, Australians, Dubai residents and more to identify with people in the movie.The focus is on the family coping with each other and each member of the family facing him/herself as the wedding draws near.  Though they are well off superficially, they are feeling the pressure of impending change. There is a great deal of interest in each person's circumstances.  The film-maker withholds moral judgment of the main characters, but occasionally puts their problems into proportion by incorporating powerfully atmospheric street scenes where the masses of the city population, handkerchiefs over mouths as an optimistic prophylactic as fight for survival in the city of 20 million.The wedding broker's sub-plot is both comic and touching.  What he achieves on a personal level gives us more satisfaction that the outcome of the real couple.I disagree with another reviewer who describes this film as cheerful throughout.  I have already indicated two aspects which make viewers less than comfortable (the predicament of the general population, the pathos of the parallel story); there is also the sinister amorality of two of the main characters which are dark elements until they are exposed and partially resolved as the film proceeds.In an understated manner, the film depicts the traditions of the various Hindu marriage ceremonies.  There are some beautifully detailed touches (eg the elaborate rangoli of orange and maroon marigolds down each side of the main drive of the family home). Other tiny decisions would touch at the heart of an Indian away from home or caught between two cultures (eg a volume of Rabindranath Tagore poetry contrasting as bedtime reading for one of the girls compared with Cleo for the other).The Music and Dance make for a great souvenir CD if you can get hold of it. Though they are woven into the story-telling instead of being patched-in as you might expect of a Bollywood production, there is still a loving nod to the Indian seductive movements of body and melody.  That funny little nod of the head we associate with India is there too.Not a lot has been missed to take us to the wedding in our imaginations. We are passive observers, as the characters on screen deal with what life throws them.  But as we leave the theatre, we find ourselves thinking about our own challenges, flirtations, foolishness.See the film.  See if you agree with me there's MUCH more than cheerfulness in it. "}{"Title":"Warm and rainy","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After the lacerating Salaam Bombay, one could be excused for thinking that Mira Nair had lost her passport to creating a nice little family film. Yet for the first couple of reels, she seems to have made just that, as our struggling-to-be-upwardly-mobile family makes preparations for a wedding that is supposed to be perfect but is obviously anything but. I must admit I had difficulty with this part of the film, as the subtitling was patchy and when the actors spoke in English it was sometimes difficult to tell who was speaking and what was being said. This could be a film that improves on repeated viewing.Perseverance pays off however. This is a family film with a finely-honed edge. Who could imagine that this seemingly shallow and chaotic family could have a genuine hero as its head in Lalit (Naseeruddin Shah), or that this film could reach across cultures to touch universal themes so effortlessly? Or that the dodgy tradesman P.K. (Vijay Raaz, in a wonderful performance) could combine the earthy humour of Shakespeare's rude mechanicals with the soaring romanticism of an urban Romeo? Tremendous stuff. "},{"Title":"East meets west, traditional old ways meet new","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's my problem, but I can never understand the professional knockers, the ones who can't enjoy a fun movie because in some ways it fails to live up to their superior artistic sensitivities.I thoroughly enjoyed Monsoon Wedding, and as it wound towards its conclusion felt it had managed to give some profound insights into the dilemmas created when east meets west and the old traditions become suddenly challenged by new social norms. The lovely sweet romance between PK and Alice was so delicately portrayed, and the crisis confronting the father on the wedding day was superbly handled. He showed himself to be a better man than our current Governor General!  "},{"Title":"Real feel good, quality authentic comedy that'll keep you laughing","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent film, along the plot line of East is East that came out a few years ago. Monsoon wedding however is more authentic to the Indian culture and contains more lifelike characters. This is a movie that you should save for a rainy day and one that will entice you back to see it a second time. "},{"Title":"An invitation you can't refuse","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We've seen it all before, of course big wedding, family crises, old scores being settled, secrets being revealed, people falling in love, etc.  But when it's done with the freshness, vitality and spirit on show here, somehow it all seems new and exciting again.  This is a seductive, beautifully controlled film.  Watch the scenes involving P.K. and Alice, where the film slows down, the camera swirls around, the colours become almost hyper-real and the music intensifies.  This is superb film-making.  The script is complex and packed with characters and incidents.  All of which could become confusing very quickly if it weren't for the superb performances and quiet confidence at the heart of this film.   It's hard to imagine how this film could be improved.  It strikes me as having just the right balance of comedy, drama, romance and intrigue. Each character is entirely believable, every scene is involving and crucial to the film as a whole. Nothing is wasted.  From the splendid opening credits sequence to the uplifting rain-soaked dance at the end, this is cinema of the highest order.  In fact, the only thing wrong with this film, is it ends. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film.  It is a very beautiful story with numerous love stories intertwined into its fulfilling plot.  Being a pardesi, the whole essence of this film brought back nostalgic memories of India.  I believe that Mira Nair has struck gold with this great movie. "},{"Title":"Wet and happy","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies about weddings certainly have recurring themes; tensions among and between the bride and groom's families, the odd family skeleton popping out, trouble with the caterers, and various romantic sub-plots, but of course the main dramatic tension is always will they/ won't they make it to the altar (or its local equivalent). Weddings as depicted on screen are usually bright, noisy chaotic affairs  - `My Best Friend's Wedding,' `Four Weddings and a Funeral,' `Muriel's Wedding' for example - and this movie is no exception. Two young Punjabis from affluent family backgrounds (though her dad is hurting a bit) are proceeeding to an arranged marriage despite the fact that he is resident in the US and apparently thoroughly westernised. They have at least met, and like each other, but she is carrying on an affair with a local (Delhi) TV host. The family have gathered from all over the world to celebrate, and determined to celebrate they are, despite the monsoon weather. Actually, no-one minds getting wet, for it seems a wet bride is a happy one.Watching the movie with a partly Indian audience gave a different perspective to it all &#150; there was great hilarity when one character says `now speak English; it shows you are a refined person', and when the event organiser Dubey ( a gem of a performance from Vijay Raaz), his suggestion of white for the marquee rebuffed by the bride's father, tells his men, `OK, put up the old colours' (which turn out to be brilliant orange and red). As an outsider, one can only guess at some of the nuances, but there is enough in common here for at least affluent westerners to relate to (the poor are not able to worry about the colour of the marquee). Strangely enough the most affecting relationship was that struck up between the bride's family's servant, the beautiful Alice, and the surprisingly shy Dubey, who despite organising 150 weddings, has yet to get married himself. Here love blooms despite all the social constraints.The noise, number of characters and  Mira Nair's Altman-style direction make this is a somewhat confusing movie to watch, and even at the end I hadn't worked out exactly who was related to who. However you do get the general idea. A family able to benefit from globalisation is maintaining its individual culture as best it can. And an arranged marriage is not necessarily an anachronism &#150; why should a dating agency be able to do any better than the traditional family procedures? The so-called `love match' is often a result of friends conspiring to bring a couple together, and the sort of arrangement depicted here is clearly one between volunteers.The music, singing and dancing is well integrated into the story and although there's a lot of noise, it's generally easy to listen and watch for the 115 minutes it takes Mira Nair to paint her cross-cultural picture of  a universal happy event.  "},{"Title":"its different ...","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  for me the movie came with a lot of hype, a venice golden lion award, golden globe nomination ... mira nair's film, an accomplished cast and so on. the one thing i constantly heard was that the movie was full of fun and frolic and a joyful watch. contrary to that i thought that monsoon wedding despite its pomp and gaeity, colour and charm, music and sound, was one of the most melancholic movies ive ever seen. the entire movie is laced with the flavor of pathos. it shows how despite the obvious and the superfluous the agony, the indecision, the difficulties, the trauma that lies behind arranged indian marriages.the movie though suffers from an overdose of sexual tension. every character seems to have some problems in this regard. i also felt that some very serious issues were lightly touched upon and easily brushed away. and there really isnt much of a plot in a conventional sense. the ending is also quite cliched in a bollywood way.despite these flaws, the movie scores thanks to some brilliant acting especially by shefali shetty and vijay raaz. a good watch, just not a simple or easy movie. i found it pretty disturbing in many ways.in all, a compact 8! "},{"Title":"Good movie, indeed","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie about the wedding habits of the upper-class Indian couples. And about love of course. A movie full of passion, music, dance, joy and sadness, as well. The huge cousinhood is present at the bride's house, making the preparations for the big event, the wedding. Everyone has his/her own little secret. The bride, the cousin, the sister and even the head of the family, having financial problems. Love is everywhere, especially during the monsoon-time. Even the low-class Indians have their touching love story (between the maidservant and the guy supervising the preparation for the wedding). All these events happen is a very Indian atmosphere, you can see the swirl of New Delhi, the atmosphere of an Indian market or wedding. The monsoon rain cannot ruin the mirth of the wedding party, it just gives an Indian flavor to it. "},{"Title":"Very Rich and Rewarding","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I rented this, I'd only seen Mira Nair's debut film SALAAM BOMBAY, which is a real stunner, and was impressed by her flair for detail. With MONSOON WEDDING I didn't know what to expect - it looked like the usual romantic comedy; a genre I usually avoid. I was very pleasantly surprised to get a film that very nicely reinvents the genre.This noted it should be said that MONSOON WEDDING tries awfully hard - as the Bollywood mainstream (from what I've seen) is more geared towards escapism and spectacle, this film (in response) packs a lot of issues into it's elaborate plot, and it almost seems a bit overloaded. However Nair - with great skill - keeps it from veering completely out of control, and the results are rich and occasionally touching.*MINOR SPOILERS*I loved the overall story, which is presented as a rather rambling mix of frazzled drama and comedy (the tight orchestration of a sprawling cast does evoke Altman), but certain other threads were very interesting the child-abuse subplot (which - though seeming tacked-on, does evoke the sense of unflinching realism seen throughout SALAAM BOMBAY), the delicate romance between Alice and the wedding planner (the oft-mentioned 'marigold heart' scene is utterly sentimental, but it's also a completely beautiful moment), and Nair's casual reflection of diaspora reality - family members all over the globe reuniting in India for a traditional ceremony pulled together in the face of debt, shifting values and unbelievable stress is yet another glimpse of her knack for detail. This diaspora aspect of the film does deserve a film of it's own, as there were a number of fleeting moments of intrigue (a family member visiting from Australia is quite ambivalent about his own roots, and is once referred to as foreigner) on this front, but MONSOON WEDDING could only accommodate so many issues, and Nair does forge something of a path for other independent Indian or Indian-expatriate filmmakers to delve into.Very rich and rewarding, especially upon a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Beautiful presentation","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Monsoon Wedding' directed by Mira Nair, is the story of Aditi, a young woman who is in love with a married man, yet has acquiesced to an arranged marriage in India. Her husband-to-be is fairly Americanized, having studied abroad, and is planning on taking his new bride to America after they marry.The story takes place during the important four days before the wedding, featuring the various parties and engagement ceremony until the eventual wedding itself. During this time, there are several subplots revealed, involving fledgling love, the institution of family in India, and buried family scandal.Nair provides a very beautiful setting for the film, the most prominent feature within this setting being the incredible bright colors of the wedding decorations and wardrobe. Using what are presumably true aspects of Indian tradition, she presents us with gorgeous ceremonies and a fantastic soundtrack. 'Monsoon Wedding' isn't merely eye candy however; there is a rich story and good performances to back up the presentation. Characters who, on the onset seem to be shallow or even repugnant in the early portion of the film develop into full and likable characters. There are several primary roles in the film, so no one actor has a breakout role, though P.K (Vijay Raaz), the wedding planner and Ria (Shefali Shetty), a cousin of the bride to be are both especially engaging.'Monsoon Wedding' is an enjoyable film that wasn't particularly fantastic, but it did have some beautiful aspects to it, and the story was very well told, something that isn't always a given when most obvious attention has been given to the aesthetic of the film. 6/10.--Shelly  "}{"Title":"Awesome movie...!!!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi guys its an extremely awesome movie with binding scripts good cinematography, great performances, realistic touches to Indian marriage. Its an extremely good movie yet so simple to understand. The performances by Naseeruddin Shah, Lilit Dubey and everybody is so real and excellent that i would rather watch this movie ten times in a row than watching another crossover flick for one time. Well its evident that the movie is filled with some hard abusive language and some sexual talks and references but its a part of this movie you wont feel odd while watching this movie with your parents and family. Folks its a great movie with great performance good camera work, mind grabbing background music. Its worth your money nearly perfect. a 9/10 flick  "},{"Title":"Funny, sad and romantic!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very well made film from India gives us a contemporary look at a culture that isn't seen very often. The wardrobe is very detailed and interesting as we see how they dress in todays world. Some wear the old style sari's while others have on modern suits and other clothing. Lots of different story angles going on all at the same time and the one I enjoyed most is the wedding planner PK who finds a girl while on the job. Some of the stories are very serious while others are a little humorous and some work better than others but by the time the film ends I had a little smile on my face. Just to remind myself that I did enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"VERY WELL DONE AND ENJOYABLE.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one foreign film I can recommend to all movie fans.  Although I was not familiar with any of the cast they did an outstanding job.  The only difficulty I has was the switching between titles and English speaking parts.  It was an unusual story and very enjoyable.  I would recommend this to all audiences, as it is in limited release and may not make it to your local movie house.  But don't let this one get away! "},{"Title":"All of life is here","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Delhi family prepares to celebrate its daughter's wedding to an expatriate Indian living in Canada, the secret tensions, desires and histories of its members are gradually revealed as either endearing or dysfunctional - but always credible.It would be foolish to pigeonhole Nair as an 'ethnic' director - her films are about families, relationships and culture, and they are universal.'Monsoon Wedding' brings all these themes together, across sexes, generations, classes and continents. Complex characters become accessible, moments of joy, humour and sadness weave together a picture of life which is rooted in the colour and customs of India, but speaks to the experience of all of us. And the audience's journey between the parents, lovers and children of this superlative ensemble cast encompasses a range of life less extreme than 'Salaam Bombay, perhaps, but one which reflects the greater opportunities of today's globalised culture while preserving the structural constraints of poverty and patriarchy.Touches of Bollywood - part of the fantastic soundtrack - highlight the power of myth, music and makeup to act out intense personal and communal truths. Anyone who can leave this film unmoved needs to look hard at their own emotional health. "},{"Title":"My favourite Mira Nair movie!","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Mira Nair's work. I have seen almost every movie directed by her, and it's quite difficult to decide which one is the best since she has directed some of my all-time favourite movies (Salaam Bombay, Monsoon Wedding, and The Namesake). This movie, hands down, is a masterpiece. From the leading characters to the smaller ones, everyone gave his/her best! It's one of those movies which you can take you to another world - a happy world. One can clearly see that Mira has put a lot of heart into this movie. I'd recommend this movie to everyone, since each one of us can relate to the characters quite easily. "},{"Title":"A Wedding Worth Attending.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding (2001) Dir Mira Nair / Cast Naseeruddin Shah, Vasundhara Das, Lillete Dubey, Shefali Shetty, Vijay Raaz Study of culture and tradition within the boundaries of one family as they prepare for a wedding. Naseeruddin Shah plays a father stressed and frustrated over wedding preparations. The yard is beautifully decorated with orange flowers and overwhelming trimmings, before being the subject of many guests in attendance. Shah's daughter is placed in an arranged marriage but she has a fling with an ex-boyfriend during a stormy night. The resolution of this is not only surprising but reasonable. Other characters include a sister who dances for an audience but cannot convince her boyfriend to involve himself. One man is a suspected paedophile. Every character is written in fine detail with fine acting performances by Shah, Vasundhara Das, Lillete Dubey, and Shefali Shetty. Vijay Razz plays a wedding planner who discovers romance when smitten during the rousing festivities. Stylish directing by Mira Nair who also made the steamy Kama Sutra A Tale of Love. Both films regard love and tradition but with this film Nair has a more solid story foundation that isn't based around sex. The film addresses culture and tradition clashed with emotion and deception resulting in a beautifully crafted film well worth attending. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Combination of warmth, laughter and love","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding- 2001 Director Mira NairMonsoon Wedding directed by Mira Nair is a film about an India family marriage. This film is one of the most effective examples of an India family ever put on screen. It displays events ranging form delightful to serious and appalling situations. You see family parties, drama, lots of music and dancing and that one creepy person in the family whom women of the family are afraid of! The great film-making and the use of hand held captures camera scenes is an important setting in the movie.With combinations of warmth and laughter, music and dance, romance and serious problems, Director Mira Nair has made this movie a family entertainment "},{"Title":"Ordinary 3 Star Romcom Plus Bonus Vivid Travelogue","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw it 140503, it was vaguely familiar to me, but my wife recalled it quite well. That's because although I had seen it before, it had no significance, it was just an intimate and authentic look at a loving family with quirky characters having an arranged wedding in India with side dramas. Many of the actors were lovely to look at. There were mildly amusing parts and mildly moving parts. There was plenty of surprisingly enjoyable singing and dancing but in an intimate, plausible way, not an over-produced Bollywood way.Oh, it offered that Punjabi have a reputation for ostentation, costumes and such, and Bengali have a reputation for pretension (seriousness). This family was Punjabi. That's racism, but a helpful handle to begin learning, assuming I heard the names correctly. "},{"Title":"A must see.","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love everything about this movie. The love stories that come together by the end of the movie and the music. Wedding scene during credits is so relaxed and nice. Its one of my top favorites and would always cherish it. Dubey's love story was the most heartwarming and of course the dark history of child abuse was handled so well. The movie does not have one dull moment. Love watching it over and over again. Monsoon wedding will always be close to my heart. I recommend it to everyone who wants to watch a light, heartwarming and almost-real wedding in India. All the characters were picked so carefully and everyone did a great job. No pretension or over the top acting. Very well made and no gimmicks. "},{"Title":"Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding was a nice cultural experience for me and my mom","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just watched this with my mom on a Netflix disc. It's from director/writer Mira Nair as she chronicles the arranged marriage in India between a young man and woman as well as her affair with a talk show host before hand. There's also a subplot about a young female cousin who reveals a shocking secret and of a wedding planner who longs for his own wedding. There's also some entertaining musical numbers that seem natural in the context of the story and not some Bollywood show-stoppers. I did admit to being somewhat confused by who was who in relation to the families but it didn't stop me from being mostly entertained during the whole thing. So on that note, I highly recommend Monsoon Wedding. "}{"Title":"This is an excellent movie","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My father, I leave the palace of your love to become a stranger to you forever. This is a quote from a Punjabi song, which is sung in the movie Monsoon Wedding. It expresses a daughter's feelings, before she marries into a new family. The feeling of not knowing what the future might show and uncertainty, are common feelings of a girl, who soon will be the bride in an arranged marriage. At the same time, she might feel, that she will become a stranger to her own family, because she will belong to her husband and in-laws after the wedding. These are some of Aditi Verma's feelings.Monsoon Wedding is a touching, romantic comedy film starring Nassaruddin Shah as Lalit Verma, Vasundhara Das as Aditi Verma, Shefali Shetty as Ria Verma, Parvin Dabas as Hermant Rai and Vijay Raaz as P.K. Dubey. The movie is from 2001 and it's directed by Mira Nair, a successful Indian film director, and the first female recipient of the Golden Lion Award at Venice Film Festival. Monsoon Wedding is a movie, which tells the story about Lalit Verma, a family man, that try his best, to organize the perfect wedding for his daughter. His daughter, Aditi Verma, can't let go of an old flame, her already married ex-boss, whom she still has an affair with. Still, she accepts her father's offer to make an arranged marriage with Hermant Rai, an Indian man, who lives in Texas. Aditi does not tell her soon-to-be husband anything about her relationship. Soon she is placed in a risky situation, where the family's reputation is at stake. But this is not the only story. The film is also portrays some other stories, that take place in the busy time of the wedding preparations. Underneath the cheerful atmosphere of the big event something disturbing and unacceptable has happened between Ria Verma, the bride's cousin, and Lalit's brother in law. Ria fears to ruin the families' good relation. She is then forced to keep a big secret from the family. Love is the dominant theme in this movie, as the story is mainly based on the wedding, and the relationships Aditi has. Family matters is also an important theme, as we are introduced to all the family members in this enormous family gathering. We hear about the various conflicts, that occur in the family, and what consequences they might bring. The family roles in the Indian society are quite clear in this movie. The younger family members show a lot of respect to the elderly, which is considered as an important courtesy in India. Aditi is forced to live her life, the way her father wishes it like, as it will be shameful for her father and the family, if she chooses not to. Monsoon Wedding is set in the modern India, which creates a clash between the still existing traditional way of thinking and the modern westernized culture. Aditi's father is very fond of the old traditional way of doing things. He is so hostile when it comes to modern things, that he even refuses to get a computer. Instead he chose to do all the accounting from the wedding on paper. This is an example, of how some people at that time, were still skeptical about the modern culture. At last, the film is also portraying the class differences in India. The Verma family is extremely wealthy, meanwhile the people in the town are awfully poor. A relationship develops between the Verma family's maid and the wedding planner P.K. Dubey. The viewer is then introduced to a potential relationship between two different economic and social statuses, which might create trouble for both parties.The film is filled with heart-warming, cheerful and humorous moments, but at the same time it portraits serious conflicts and problems, occurring in an Indian society. The music and the colorful scenery from the Indian Punjabi culture, makes the movie eye-catching, artistic and interesting to watch. The good acting by all the actors, makes the viewer empathize with the characters, and their emotions in the movie. The hand-held camera was the element giving the movie the final touch. As a viewer, you actually feel like you're present at all the events in busy wedding preparation.This is an excellent movie, that makes its audience feel the atmosphere of the Indian culture close up. It's a film worth 9 stars. "},{"Title":"A good in between movie.","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The way I see it; this is a pretty good, fun and charming movie to pass some time with but it definitely isn't something too impressive or brilliant.The good news is that this movie is very watchable for just about everybody. You don't have to be into Bollywood movies to like or appreciate this movie. Yes, the movie is very Indian but yet not really typical Bollywood like.It basically is a very simple movie, with its setup. It's set during and around an arranged wedding and the movie follows multiple different members of the family and others involved. But it does in in such a way that the movie still feels focused enough and keeps a pleasant flow to its storytelling.But what the movie is lacking with its storytelling is some edge. I feel that the movie too often decides to play things on the safe side and it doesn't goes quite far enough with some of its themes and story lines. It makes the movie quite tame but at the same time of course also more enjoyable to watch, so it's not like it ruins the movie or makes it a completely unwatchable one.The characters all have something going for them and most are likable ones, which make them and this movie pleasant to follow. There are definitely a bunch of different characters in this movie but the movie does a good job balancing things out between each and everyone of them. It never looses its focus, though it so easily could had done that, at certain points.The movie is also a colorful one, which of course adds to its overall atmosphere and enjoyment level, though the movie still definitely is being a serious drama as well. But luckily it's no melodrama and actually picks some realistic themes and has all of its characters responding and coping with it in a very realistic manner.A good movie to watch, that you might even end up loving. After all, it's a quite popular movie!7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Monsoon Wedding","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The title of the movie is a refection of the continent of it. The Indian family is getting ready for a big event the wedding. The marriage is arranged, which is one of the oldest Indian traditions. Still let's not forget that it's going on in modern India and the director is Mira Nair. For me the name of this director is a guarantee that there will be not much simplicity in the movie. After watching only five minutes of this movie I realized that it did not belong in the category of predictable movies. There are quite a few lines which are continuously intertwining together and held my attention till the very end. If I try to go into details I can say that the movie is about a bride who is about to get married but is still in love with a married man, or it's about a father who wants to make a beautiful wedding for his daughter but eventually will find himself torn between the feeling of great debt to one of the members of his family and the fact of revealed child abuse. Another direction of the movie could be about the wedding planer who finally finds someone special for himself. Looking at all these different scenarios made me unable to pinpoint the main one. Also there are many elements of tragedy and comedy going together which makes the movie especially interesting. In addition the movie is beautifully filmed; I liked the action and many colorful elements and details in it. Without any doubt I can say that Monsoon Wedding is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Definitely R.S.V.P. for this wedding.","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By the end of the of screening of this movie, one feels like they were in a different world. A world full of flawed people, a world full of stressful situations and a world with tons of Black humor. If one expects Monsoon Wedding to be a loud slapstick comedy, please change your expectations. Expect nearly 2 hours of subtle comedy and expect to experience a wedding like no other.Lalit Verma is a higher class Delhi man arranging his daughter's wedding. Cash flow is a little tight, but that's just one of the many problems he's going to have to face. Aditti has a married ex who she is still seeing just when her father is arranging her marriage to Hemmat. Dubey is an event planner and he's in love.If I have to give a vague analysis, I'd say Monsoon Wedding is not about a wedding at all. It's a about unresolved situations coming up in a wedding. Whether it is a stressed father, a confused daughter forcing herself into a marriage, a woman having to see her disturbing childhood again but thru the eyes of another or even a crazy event planner's realization to settle down.Now if you have not seen the movie, you probably think, What does this have to do anything with a festive Indian wedding? Well, nothing. All these subplots unfold during this festive wedding.That is the genius of Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding. There is a lot of depth in the characters. Every character has flaws to overcome by the end of the movie. Best of all, we as the viewers are glued to the screen to know how things will end.There are some notable scenes in the film. The initial reels are exciting because several subplots are being introduced. Of Course the scene with Aditti's realization that she is doing wrong is significant. Not to forget her confession to her fiancé is gripping.The scenes with Vijay Raaz put a smile on your face. Naseer's scene when he's looking at his children and talking to his wife is excellent. Of course, the most dramatic scene would be the one near the climax when Riya confesses her childhood.I do feel the film slows down in the middle and even a bit in the second half. That is the major flaw I have. I do want to add, the film could have been trimmed down a bit. Slightly.The music is good with a good choice of handpicked songs to play in the background. None of these songs are original though. Good songs nonetheless.The writing is crisp and the characters are strongly written. Editing is a small issue here. Screenplay is engaging. Lines in the movie are fantastic. Kudos! Mira Nair's direction is good. It's different and definitely in a good way. The whole colorization and art goes well with the tone of the movie.Just like in the movie, Lalit Verma keeps the family in check and is holds it together. It is Naseerudhin Shah's performance that holds this movie together. He is an incredible actor and there is no doubt. If you're a fan like myself, do NOT miss this act. He's just flawless. Note the scenes when he goes tense and yells, note his dramatic scenes. Note in the climax when he has to make a decision. Note his Punjabi. Just astounding.Another performance that stands out is Vijay Raaz. He's got a strange intensity in him. His comedy is great and there is no doubt. However, he shows his dramatic side here. A great act.Shehfali Shah is a talent no given enough credit. She's first rate. We need to see her more. Lillete Dubey supports well. Vasundhra Das does a good job. Pravin Dabas is effective. Kulbhushan Karbanda is lovable. Rajat Kapoor does well. Others support well.Overall - A black comedy with a good share of drama. If you want something different and good, go for it. "},{"Title":"Great Indian film!","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding was perhaps one of the most brilliant films I have ever seen. It took me somewhere I'd never been, and by the time two hours were up, I felt at home.A lot of the film's success was in the acting. Talented portrayals of deep complex characters who can make you laugh and cry in just minutes. I was amazed how easy it was to keep tabs on no less than 5 separate subplots without getting the characters mixed up or losing interest.Another key to Monsoon Wedding's success was how the camera told as much story as the actors and dialogue. Lingering shots on a character who doesn't seem part of the action revealed so much more than dialogue could.And the most amazing thing - this film was made in 30 days!! Couldn't believe it. Fantastic production values, mind, not like many other Indian movies I've seen. And down-to-earth realistic, not like Bollywood. Yes, there is singing and dancing, but in context, not every five minutes! I don't have anything against Bollywood, but I'm glad to see that there is a higher standard of Indian film-making out there. "},{"Title":"Moonsoon is great!","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hands down this is my favorite movie. (With My Name is Kahn in second place). My mom got this movie for me. I saw it the first time and realized that i had friends like that. The movie is definitely one every teenage kid should see. But the movie overall is great because its just about a four friends who have no experience with the real world before the wedding They realize that the wedding host could of been them and they respect that. In my opinion the point of the movie was not to have you think of when you were about to wed and your good friends but to think of what you have now, and what you do with it. In the end the film tells us what happens to each and how each kind of go their separate ways. (Such as the last scene of the movie). This is definitely a movie to not only rent but buy. I tip my hat to the Indian filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow. I knew this was a great movie, but after finally seeing it I'm glad it didn't under-deliver. Only meaning to watch a few minutes to get a general feel for the film, it drew me in from start to finish. The characters are well written and just as beautifully played. The plot starts nice and subtle, but does not leave any unanswered questions. Most of all, the general feel is very authentic and true. Being Arab, I can easily relate to the 'family' theme and this is portrayed very well yet without overdoing it. I would like to close by saying this tears, having become foreign to me, rarely remind me of their existence during certain touching films leading to my development of the phrase 'tear-worthy'. This film is without a doubt tear-worthy.. Sniff.. "},{"Title":"fun, light-hearted feel-good wedding movie","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What fun! A delightful and frothy feel-good film directed by a Bollywood outsider which actually succeeds at something so many Hindi films fail at. The acting is uniformly good, and the film feels like an authentic portrayal of upper middle class Delhi. My favorite segment was the blossoming romance between the maid and the wedding planner. The music is loud and boisterous and adds to the film's energy. The only blemish is the nasty subplot involving (MINOR SPOILERS) child abuse. It may be a relevant issue but has no place in what is essentially a light-hearted concoction.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding Punjabi nuptials comic-opera","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ossia It Never Rains Put It Pours. This multi-thread wedding romance is a rich feast of culture and drama, fun and tragedy. Even if the thought of a big Indian party as the basis for a film leaves you cold, you can't help but sucked into the stresses and revelations that such an event inevitably churns up.Mira Nair handles the whole melange expertly. The acting is very good - the one performance I was nonplussed by at the beginning, Vijay Raaz's PK Dubey, turns out to be an affecting comic and romantic heart of the film. Beside him is the decorous housemaid of Tillotama Shome, the bride Aditi (glowing Vasundhara Das) and her parents, two actors who I would not be surprised to discover are Indian acting aristocracy, Naseeruddin Shah and Lillete Dubey. Not sure about eating marigolds though. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I simply adored this movie!","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is too Indian. Anyone who has had an Indian upbringing will really adore this movie. Overall, it depicts a typical ostentatious Indian wedding with all its nuts and bolts and the fun of the entire family coming together in the occasion. There are other little little things that are so common in an Indian context, like for example, the tense father of the bride Lalit Verma (Naseeruddin Shah) and the way he rebukes Dubey (the event manager), the bonding between the cousins, the eve-teasing of Ria when she tries an ice cream, Lalit's affection for Ria even though she is only the daughter of his elder brother is too adorable! I think this is Mira Nair's best work thus far.The movie revolves around the wedding of the only daughter Aditi of an Indian family living in New Delhi. An Indian born US based IIT graduate engineer is chosen as the groom through the traditional Indian custom of arranged marriages. Behind this main theme, there are several subplots, such as Aditi's continuing relationship with her (married) ex-boss, the event manager (more like a wedding planner) Dubey falling in love with the house maid Alice (Tilottoma Shome), Aditi's elder sister's unpleasant experiences with her uncle during her childhood etc. The amazing about this movie though is that all these subplots somehow come to a clean conclusion at the end of the movie. I would highly recommend this movie to all my Indian buddies. "}{"Title":"Feast for the Senses","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was riveted to my seat throughout the film. The acting is so subtle you don't see any acting at all; you almost feel as though you are watching a documentary unfolding. The family is large and though the players are a bit difficult to sort out, don't feel bad, even the family members don't know who is who when the wedding festivities get underway. In one memorable exchange, a rather ebullient man is serving as a wild Master of Ceremonies, speaking quickly and incomprehensibly, and just when you might think you're the only one who doesn't know what's going on, one of the characters says to the groom, Who is that ##@&*^% anyways? and the handsome, charming groom answers politely, Well, actually, that's my father. Ahhhh, weddings.But don't go thinking this is some Bollywood chick flick. The story is profound, and the wedding is NOT the main event - merely a forum for more important events to unfold in the lives of people who surround the bride and groom.And if you love Indian music, see this. If you have never been exposed to Indian music, you may fall in love with it by the time the closing credits roll.I highly recommend this sublime work of movie art. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like all of Mira Nair's films set in India, much of what goes on will be baffling to non-Indian viewers; you just have to go with it and be rewarded. I **STRONGLY** recommend to anyone with access to the DVD to watch it again with her director's commentary audio-track turned on! She explains her purpose, who the actors are, how the costumes and sets were designed, what she was trying to accomplish in various scenes; it opens up the film and makes it much more accessible. This is true of all of her films, particularly the shimmering and complex Kama Sutra.Casting note the stunningly handsome young man who appears out of the rain at the very end of the film is Jas Arora, a popular male-model. "},{"Title":"The bride","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hallmark should take notesThe Hollywood-Hallmark corporation that has been piping in our ideas of love and romance for the past as long as I can remember has nothing on Monsoon Wedding.  Mira Nair does an excellent job of taking an overly used theme, weddings, and giving it a personal touch that reflects the ideology of Indians both young and old. As a typical American viewer, whatever that is, I was able to get a sense of the way a wedding takes place in Indian culture.  This is conveyed through many ways, most notably to me was her use of native traditions such as the singing and dancing that takes place through out the movie.  These things show us the way that a family and each of its members know the specific role that they play.  Weather it is the middle age women singing to the other women on the day before the wedding or the young woman who does her sexy or entertaining or traditional dance at the night before party.  The father lets us know the importance of the man's role throughout the movie by working to get the money together for the wedding and by trying to make sure that his son is an educated professional something. More than just the particular wedding of discussion this movie also shows how the institution of marriage is regarded in India.  Dubey is for all his apparent wanting to be Americanized, is actually longing for marriage both for himself as well as his mother, showing that in this society a man is at least in the eyes of women judged not only by his profession but more importantly by his family.  The mother of the bride to be explains during a brief moment that her and her husband had only met two days before their marriage implying to her daughter that every thing is going to be alright. How this differs from Hollywood movies of the same basic premise is that instead of getting a lopsided dose of the two main characters in a vain attempt to show both romance and love, the viewer is introduced to a variety of characters and as I stated earlier their roles in the family environment, which translates into their roles in the movie.  By depicting a wedding that has been arranged the director does not need to focus on building a romance story but instead is allowed to capture the little moments, which anybody who knows knows that they are the ones that count anyway.  However as a side bar we are also shown that romance and romantic meetings and acts do take place in the courtship process of young Indians, expressed through Alice and Dubey.  In what seems to be more of an American Hollywood style the relationship of these two characters is, as cheesy as I can, ripe with romance.  This makes for an interesting contrast to the main marriage were the idea of a lack of romance is not only implied but also discussed (in the taxi by the soon to be bride and her cousin).  By having many things going on during the lives of the many different characters we are able to get an interesting perspective on India and how marriages effect and are played out in such a family oriented society. "},{"Title":"alive and exciting","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding, Mira Nairs film, details the days leading up to an Indian woman's wedding.  Nair explores the the various clashes of past and present, father and child, and class.  This charming film includes a cast of mostly likable characters and pleases the viewer on many levels.  That said there are a few elements that seem forced and amateurish. The family and various organizers of the wedding are all introduced smoothly  and without alot of unnecessary dialogue explaining who this or that person is.  The story is light and funny and moves effortlessly. However, early in the film a character is introduced and an unnecessary subplot evolves that mars the film throughout.  The situation involving the character comes to a head at the end of the film when the film should really be reaping the harvest of the wonderful comedic and romantic elements that are its strengths. Technically Nair uses a lot of hand held camera, and while this can be an effective tool for a filmmaker Nair doesn't know when to say when. Unfettered use of hand held camera can become nauseating, especially when a character is supposed to be performing an exotic dance and the camera is moving like it is on the end of a rope.  While this is a strong criticism of the film the fact is I thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it for anyone.  Nair definitely has talent and the soundtrack is a knockout. "},{"Title":"The film addressed family issues in a great, fresh, new way.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  India is a heavy populated and modern nation that constantly blends history, culture, social concerns and morals with continually advancing technology as it defines itself as a world power. India's film industry implements these ideals as it becomes more world renound and well know. With a combination of old Hollywood techniques and new editing inspirations, a great soundtracks, and a bilingual script has pushed this film into the forefront of the international film industry. As the movie begins the technique of playing an instrumental overture and showing credits is used. Bright colors such as green, red, blue, and yellow as well as a string image connect the names and starts capture the audience's attention. As the film continued to unfold color continues as a main feature; it is almost another main character as it is incorporated in all the main action, scenery and costuming. This character then addresses social and cultural differences while showing incredibly beautiful images. The image of the string shows the tying binds that family and marriages have upon an individual. In this culture, the patriarch or father was the tying factor that held families together and one that made all the major decisions about money, love, education to allow for prosperity. Though out the film the audience is shown the dual sides of the Indian society by seeing the relationship of Dombey and Alice develop while the preparations for the arranged marriage take place. While the audience sees a financially stable family that has all the luxuries that one could have ( mtv, cell phones, new cars, large home) ; they also see the simpler side of the society where they live from paycheck to paycheck, where they do not have cars and where they must find love on their own since there is no aid to be given to the child. The editing shows a parallel of these two different worlds by a dream like passage of time, where the common man Dombey is thinking about the love he has lost. Social issues are brought to light as the family unit must address them as a whole. What affects one in this culture affects all. As the unmarried older cousin finally confronts the mistreatment and molestation she endured as a child, she saves her young cousin from the same man. This realization brings more good than strain on the family for it forces the father not only to reconnect with his wife but to also put family loyalty above money. The family also had to address the idea of infidelity as the oldest daughter is soon to be married but had a married boyfriend on the side. The idea of the monsoon washed away these troubles and allowed the family to begin anew. For each time there was a rain shower a realization had occurred. The first shower brought an end to the affair and the second shower at the wedding brought the family together, brought a man that could fall for the older cousin, and brought a clean start feeling to the arranged marriage.Through beautiful imagery, family values and ties, and a modern editing style the audience is lead on a narrative that brings international stereo-types and misconceptions to light. It also shows a hope or a determination to bring a resolution to these ideas, where all persons can unite with a common understanding.  "},{"Title":"Soap Opera","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains spoiler! Monsoon Wedding is a typical soap opera film in the fact that there is family conflict throughout the film, but in the end everything is happy and fine.  The film is based on an India family preparing for their only daughters wedding.  This is an arranged marriage although the fiancé is currently still sleeping with her ex-boyfriend and is lost in what to about the whole situation.  Throughout the whole film, the wife-to-be seems as if she doesn't even care for her fiancé, but all of a sudden falls in love with him after he forgives her for sleeping around.  This establishes the soap opera in the film.  A couple believing they are in love or in this case one individual, have a lovers quarrel where they feel like the relationship is over but later end up with each other madly in love.  This also happens to other individuals in the film.  With Dubey, the wedding conductor, and the hired help, but also with the idiot and one of the cousins.  The only difference with these four individuals is that they are not actual couples, but the audience can tell that there are feelings between them.The film also establishes the many differences between American and India societies.  In the film, one of the uncles is made out to be a child molester.  The audience doesn't find this out for fact until the end but the director makes insinuations about it throughout the film in which you can pick up on.  For instance, there is serious tension between the uncle and one of the daughters and the film constantly shows the uncle talking to the youngest girl and the daughter getting upset about it.  The film shows the difference between American and India ways at the end when the father finds out what happened to his niece that he was taking care of.  In the film, the father doesn't really do anything except tell the uncle to leave and that he doesn't want to talk about it.  If this situation arose with an American, the uncle would have most likely got the crap kicked out of him.  I think this shows how different cultures act completely different in situations and this film establishes this well.  "},{"Title":"Analysis of modernization/globalization","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding reflects the marriage of Indian tradition with modernization and globalization, which is represented in the film through the language, scenery, clothing, and music. These themes show that tradition and modernity are not mutually exclusive, and that indeed you cannot separate one from the other. Monsoon Wedding reflects the increasing westernization of Indian culture while at the same time stressing the vital importance of Indian tradition. Throughout the film, the characters use a mix of Hindi and English, often code switching within sentences. A good example of this is the scene where the women are trying on outfits for the wedding and the teenage girl says, The blushing virgin look in Hindi really suits me in English. The Australian relative is another good example of the infusion of cultures. For example, when he is asked what he is doing by his uncle, he responds Just Chillin, to the disgust of his uncle. In the movie, the family lives in a relatively modern looking home, and they drive modern cars, but the fact that they are living in a third world metropolis is rendered by scenes depicting the bustling city of New Delhi. In addition, the reality of their geographical location is manifested through the black out scene in which the father quips That's the problem with Delhi! and they have to use a backup generator with a manual crank in order to get the lights back on. There is a wide array of clothing styles throughout the film that reflect the fusing of cultures and the retaining of tradition. Traditional Indian outfits were donned for the wedding ceremonies while more casual and westernized clothes were worn for everyday activities. Overall, the younger family members tended to wear more westernized clothing, while the parents and grandparents wore more traditional outfits. The exception to this, however, is Alice the maid who wore traditional Indian clothing. This is representative of the link between upward mobility and higher social status and the consumption of westernized goods.Alice is an interesting character because she is portrayed as a shy, meek, and simple girl who is rather old-fashioned. This is evidenced in the scene where she is talking to the wedding coordinator, and he exclaims that she has a white name. When he tells her his name, which is Indian and quite long, he says that he shortened it to just two initials. Alice responds that his Indian name is a lovely one. Throughout the film, the music presents us with the modern and traditional aspects of Indian culture. During wedding ceremonies, traditional songs were played and sung, while pop music was often played by the younger family members at other times. The music was one of the most involving parts of the wedding ceremonies, and this was evidenced by the women's singing at the henna painting ritual. At the end of the film, the teenage girl does a dance to Indian pop music, and symbolically (and arguably physically) pulls her Australian love interest into her culture. Monsoon Wedding shows us that traditional Indian culture is not relegated to the past but alive and thriving in a new interpretation. The language, scenery, clothing and music all serve to render the message of the colorful infusion taking place in Indian society. "},{"Title":"A Female Director Hitting her Stride","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having actually attended an extravagantly huge and eye-opening Hindu/Christian wedding here in the states, I got a big kick out of Mira Nair's beautifully layered and colorful Altmanesque Monsoon Wedding. The fact that she followed this up with the excellent HBO Women on the verge of a nervous breakdown in 1980's New Jersey film Hysterical Blindness is proof positive that she is in the prime of her directing career and is an international artist to watch for in the near future.Upper-middle class modern day Indian culture is brought to a vibrant and beautiful life here in the hands of Nair. This film has everything you want in a multi-generational comedy/drama dark family secrets, culture clash, generation gap, unabashed romances, infidelity, and enough family drama to fuel an entire season of a day-time soap opera. It's a bit confusing at first as the film alternates between subtitles and heavily accented spoken English, but once you get acclimated to the culture and lost in the lush scenery, you'll get sucked into this delicious family affair that culminates in a rain-soaked wedding of epic celebratory proportions. "},{"Title":"Great movie, shows what life in India is like","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, and so did my wife.  I would give it a rating of at least 8.0, and I probably will watch it again tomorrow.I love movies that give views of real life in places unfamiliar to me. Sure, some of the movie is staged and filmed for the plot.  But there were many parts that gave me a lesson in what life in India really is like.  I love the differences in culture in India compared to the US.  Seeing the wedding traditions such as the henna-dyed hands was so interesting!  The respect for elders and for dead relatives was beautiful too.*SPOILERS*The film made me cry for some reason at the end, but they were good tears, happy ones.  I felt very glad that the father acted in support of his abused niece and asked his brother(?) to leave after learning of his abuse. Having this subplot did not lessen the movie for me at all. A father protecting his family is a beautiful thing, especially at personal or financial sacrifice.The love evident in the family dynamics made me think of my own family. Sadly, we are fighting and squabbling over minor things.  Maybe that is why this film made me cry.  It reinforces how important one's family is.See this movie!  "},{"Title":"Dubey's story is good but everything else is weird...","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked the story of Dubey but everything else in movie was not all that good. But I'm not a fan of romantic movies anyway. It would be nice if they did a more exhaustive part on that. Otherwise, good music and beautiful cinematography. "}{"Title":"The OTHER wedding movie for 2002","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a shame really, that not more people have heard of this film.  I've been doing my best to spread the word of mouth.  This is a sweet little movie with beautiful scenery and lots of characters to try and remember.  This is one you need to see more than once! I left the theater feeling as if I knew this family and wanted to be part of them.  Loved the side love story between the wedding coordinator and the housemaid.  I loved My Big Fat Greek Wedding, but of the two wedding movies I saw in 2002, I give this one the edge.  Both were wonderful films, but this one had a little more substance to it.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  amazing amazing amazingif you're at all familiar with indian culture, then you will, without a doubt, love this movie.  the film is very authentic and depicts typical indian culture very accurately (right down to the family politics). some verrrry fine ladkis in this movie D  "},{"Title":"Somewhat entertaining, but confusing","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about an Indian wedding, involving many generation of people from different background, all tossed together.It starts off by trying to create the feverish atmosphere of a upcoming wedding, with display of different characters doing different things, relatives coming over from left and right, different events going on relating to the planning of the wedding.  In the midst of the whole thing, a mass of confusion is created, with neither the characters nor plot properly introduced.  This left subsequent scenes in which those characters had important roles confusing.Many of the more controversial topics were glossed over, or just made to work out, especially about arranged marriage, woman's passive role or their independence are treated in society.  This being a movie that takes place in India, some of them would be taken for granted, but it is still, after all, a story of modern day India with a modern woman at the center.  The molestation subplot seemed to be the only issue that had any seriousness in the film.  Everything else seems to be happy and giddy.The music and score were done very well, with the introduction of dancing not in the usually spontaneity that usually occur in bollywood movies.  At the same time, adding to the feel of the movie.All in all, it was still a fun movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"The ordinary stresses of tying the knot are compounded in Monsoon Wedding (M), the highest grossing Indian movie of all time, currently showing at the Regent Theatre in Te Awamutu.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film, directed by Mira Nair and written by Sabrina Dhawan, examines Indian traditions as Aditi Verma (Vasundhara Das) prepares for her arranged marriage to an Indian businessman living in Texas. There's not much of a main plot, but neither is there meant to be. As the film's title suggests the focus is a wedding during the Indian monsoon season &#150; simple as that. But there are plenty of subplots involving one of the couple in an affair with a prominent television personality, the mayhem of extended Indian family arriving from all over the world and the horror of discovering that one of the guests has an unhealthy attraction to children. There is even a semi-comic sub-plot centred around the semi-tragic wedding planner, PK Dubey (Vijay Raaz), and his affections for the housemaid Alice (Tilotama Shome). Monsoon Wedding is a highly colourful film with plenty of cultural content and is most enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Enchantment!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film enchanted me.  The Indian culture, the flowers, the people, the music and the dancing.  I felt like I was there, participating in the wedding plans.The relationships in the film, however, were hard to figure out.  I was able to derive some of them, but others were a puzzle. Was the Australian a cousin or a son?  Did the young daughter of the abusive father live with the uncle?  Did her older sister live with the uncle? where did the groom's father disappear to by the end of the film?  Who was the woman who was dancing with the youngest son?  Was she an Aunt? A friend? Who was the man in the framed photo that they all paid homage to? A grandfather perhaps?Despite all of this confusion, it was still a joy to watch. I taped it from the pay per view and have watched it three time, finding something new each time. "},{"Title":"Nice change of pace from the typical Bollywood film....","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed Monsoon Wedding. Having had a lot of experience with Indian culture, I found it humorous and entertaining. I enjoyed the organic style of camera work that was used, and the acting was very good. I loved witnessing what goes on at an Indian wedding, and much of the family portrayals ring true. (PLOT SPOILER AHEAD) However, the situation that arises when it comes out that Ria has been molested by her uncle is very atypical from most Indian families' real-life reaction. I'm not sure exactly why that element was present in the film and why it appeared so late; perhaps to add a bit of seriousness and gravity to the plot. But all in all it was a very good movie. "},{"Title":"you could probably have a good time watching it....but not a great movie","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all most of the hand held camera was fun to watch as it gives a very personal effect to it....working on the colours and shades also gives the movie a personal touch...Naseerudin Shah and Shefali Chaya gives great performances....and an average performance from Vasudhara Das...The movie scores bcos of the regular Bollywood music used ...over all a fun movie to watch...but won't be remembered like Mira Nair's Salaam Bombay  "},{"Title":"Colors of Love and Family","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the viewpoint of an older woman, I found this a wonderful warm look at another extended family from around the world.  I was delighted with the women and their shopping, and trying to get the wedding preparations done without going nuts.  Just makes you realize the same things happen in the same circumstances anywhere.  I especially loved the maids story.  Her yearnings were so palpable, it just took your heart.  The beautiful colors and look of the film also was a joy.  The music and dancing, and the cadence of the dialog, in various languages were lovely to listen to.  I was not confused at all.  No more than going to a big wedding in my own large family and trying to sort out all the people you haven't seen in years.   It was a lovely film all around.  I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Confusing but inexplicably charming","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie definitely ranks among my all time favorites! Although my boyfriend and I were really confused about the relationships in the film and some of the plot twists, we left the movie feeling like we had just witnessed a piece of someone else's life-- and not some dry movie depiction of it. The movie sucks you in and never lets you go- you might get confused but at the end you feel so attached to the family that you almost wish they were your own. This film has also sparked my interest in Indian culture and ( without a doubt) the music of the bollywood industry. AND- we enjoyed the film so much that we have rented it on many different  occasions ( that is unusual for us). That said, if you haven't seen this film, go rent it immediately and prepare to be stunned. "},{"Title":"Sensual","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding was a sensual movie experience.  I enjoyed the examination of another culture but I'm sure many cultural references and nuances were missed by me.  So much went on and so many people were involved that I wasn't sure who was who.  Nonetheless the movie was engaging and filled with color, music, dancing and beautiful women.  Even the closing credits were engaging.  I even watched the credits until the very end.  Actually I watched the interplay of colors beneath the credits.  This movie has been compared to My Big Fat Greek Wedding and is similar in that it concerned a wedding but while Greek Wedding was an affectionate jab at an ethnic culture Monsoon Wedding was a celebration of a culture.  It was not as funny as Greek Wedding but had some more serious scenes.  What it did share was a deep love for the culture portrayed.  It is well worth a watch.  "}{"Title":"Warms the bottom of your heart!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great little gem from Mira Nair, who directed the somber but thought prevoking Salaam Bombay.  Monsoon Wedding is leaps and bounds ahead of the grossly overated My Big Fat Greek Wedding.  There are no Indian stereotypes in the film as opoosed to the Obese Greek wedding.  The movie has characters that you would actually find in urban India today.The only reason My Big Fat Greekng is doing so much business and Monsoon was only an art house hit is because mainstream North America is afraid to see something that is different.  People embraced my big fat greek wedding because it is just white people with a stereotyped greek culture sprkinkled throughout.  Nothing to be afraid of!In addition the sub plot of the wedding planner and the maid almost manages to steal the entire movie, but the performance of Nuseeradhin Shah brings the movie back to the main plotline.This is a really good movie with an excellent soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Fly on the wall feeling","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the DVD commentary, director Nair explained that the movie was completed in 30 days. The net effect of this is to create a high energy movie with a large but tight cast that give you the feeling that you are a fly on the wall of the Verma household as they go through the run up to their daughter's wedding. There are many subplots and always chaos as you might expect for a Punjab wedding but there is also some lovely humour, especially from Dubey the poor, abused wedding organiser. This is not a classic movie and though good, the acting is also not outstanding. even the camera wobbles as Nair tries to cover her multi layer scenes in 30 days. But none of this matters because you come away with a warm feeling that you were there. "},{"Title":"Another Great Wedding Movie","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  As My Big Fat Greek Wedding continues to sweep the country and rake in some big bucks as a low budget gem, the slightly overlooked Monsoon Wedding is beginning to get some notice on video.  From the director of Mississippi Masala, this movie plays like a real life home movie from India.  This is not written in the style of most Hollywood pictures.  The characters and the culture carry you through 2 hours.  Wonderful music and a rainbow of color fill the film, as do many fascinating characters.  My favorite is Dubey, the curious looking and acting wedding planner who discovers himself and love during the process of putting together this event.  Many laughs, but many intimate moments dealing with such topics as child abuse, infidelity, homosexuality, lust, work ethic, marital discontent, capitalism and ego.  This all plays out in a most touching way amidst the culture of India.  Of course, it could have been anyplace - except for the arranged marriage part!  Very entertaining and a bit educational.  Overall a touching, feel good event. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully festive kaleidoscope","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding splatters the screen with ebullience as a very westernized East Indian couple and throngs of family members in New Delhi convene for that universally most happy of occasions. A fun and festive flick with all manner of family issues expressed in and among the wedding preparations, this plotless film is a delightful hodgepodge of busy goings-on full of handsome folks in anxious anticipation the festivities. A delightful happening, Monsoon Wedding will score best with viewers into foreign films or with a specific interest in East Indian culture. (B-)  "},{"Title":"Indian Delight","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair, the director of the movie knows well the international market. I saw her US minorities relationship film 'Mississippi Masala' a decade ago, and liked it. I was even more curious to see this Indian-made movie, and was rewarded with a real delight. The director knows so well to combine the Indian and American melodrama ands musical films traditions. 'Monsoon Wedding' is about an arranged wedding, in the Indian tradition, between a couple who never met before. She has a relationship with a married TV host. He lives in the US and intents to take his bride with him. has this relation any chance? This is only one of the many small parallel threads between a multitude of colorful, different and very well acted characters brough together by the pretext of the wedding.I was both entertained and educated by this film. I confess to hold a prejudice against Indian films, and it will take a few more like 'Monsoon Wedding' to erase it. However, this film was well done, entertaining, and I learned more than I ever knew about life in contemporary India. I gave the movie 9/10. It's one of the best I saw this year. "},{"Title":"The way the characters handled their problems was uplifting.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just want to add one remark to all of the other good things that have been said about this film (though perhaps it's been said already, since I did not read all 100 of the reviews).The main reason I found this film so uplifting is that is that all of the right decisions were made.  In real life, some things that really ought to be forgiven too often aren't; and some things that should never be forgiven too often are.  In this film, we see difficult forgiveness given where it is deserved, and a bold and necessary decision not to forgive, forget, or bury one's head in the sand, handled with tremendously admirable grace and courage.Of course, there's a great deal more in the film to appreciate than only that.  The whole thing is a wonderous slice-of-life montage.People, just by being human, have lots of problems.  This film's many themes and subplots never transcend the ordinary; but the total effect of the film evoked more than a few transcendent feelings within me.  Excellent movie (not outstanding, but excellent).  "},{"Title":"Rich and rewarding","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  British films East Is East and Bend It Like Beckham have examined the inter-generational culture problems of families originally from the Indian sub-continent bringing up a family in urban England. But Monsoon Wedding makes it clear that one does not have to leave India to find clashes of values within the Indian family. Punjabi director Mira Nair uses the device of a large-scale arranged wedding - an event lasting some days and involving much expense, ritual and tradition - to explore a range of inter-personal relationships, skillfully woven together in a screenplay by Sabrina Dhawan.This is a vibrant and colourful movie full of contrast between the relative peace and affluence of the Verma family home and the endlessly noisy and teeming streets of Delhi, between the normally dry and dusty weather and the regular monsoon downpours, between the candles, flowers and saris of a joyous wedding and the discovery of awful inter-family abuse. Even the dialogue is a contrast, constantly shifting between English, Hindi and Punjabi. Finally there is something of the music and dancing that one expects of a traditional Bollywood product. In short, this is a rich and rewarding work that deserves a world audience.   "},{"Title":"fabulous potpourri !","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As an Indian,I've watched many movies which are based on our culture (like this one)directed by Indians based in the West. I must say only a few movies like Monsoon Wedding are truly excellent. From start to finish the movie delivers a platter of culture in the form of dance,drama,comedy and music captivating the viewer with ease. This film deserves all the acclaim and awards it has won. Kudos to Mira Nair and the cast for  a fantastic job. Put this one in ure must-see movies category.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Real Treat","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie follows the preparations of a wedding in India. The family is spread out all over the world and so the wedding is a homecoming for many of them. It is an arranged marriage and the bride and groom, who have barely met, must work a few things out together. In the background is the slippery P.K Dubey who is the wedding planner, and who himself falls for a servant girl. The dialogue and the handling of the various sub plots is superb. In fact the dialogue is so real it feels almost like you are there. The music, by Michael Danna is stitched seamlessly into the film, but this is not in any way a Bollywood film. A real treat 8/10  "},{"Title":"Another Nair Gem","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Salaam Bombay and Mississippi Masala. Even more so I enjoyed Monsoon Wedding, truly a gem.  Set in New Delhi it provides the armchair traveller with a realistic impression of the steamy atmosphere of the city, the build up of stress and strain as the monsoons approach, and a glimpse of a middle/upper class Hindu wedding as the characters struggle to overcome the vicissitudes common to arranged Indian marriages.  Having personally enjoyed an extended stay in India and being invited to such a wedding in New Delhi I can vouch for the accuracy of detail and visual representation of the wedding. The film dialog and it's emphasis on sex and vulgar expletives (criticized by an earlier reviewer) hopefully is not representative of the 'norm' ,, only those fluent in the language can gauge it's accuracy. Having said this, the dialog and sub titles did not detract from the sheer pleasure of this movie.   I will indulge the movie again when released as VHS.  "}{"Title":"Sumptuous Feast","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost all the senses were evoked in this film, even if it were only sometimes vicariously through the eyes. The emotions and relationships were touchingly real. The actor playing the father of the family was fantastic, though really all the acting was amazing. I really identified with the wedding planner, though he was so odd.  He was a real dreamer. I left the theater happy, and we all need movies like that. "},{"Title":"sensory overload","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...which isn't necessarily a bad thing, cinematically speaking. As she did in the masterpiece Salaam Bombay, Nair immerses the viewer in a milieu at once exotic and familiar, inhabited by characters who are achingly real in their situations and their natural development.  The handheld camera-work which seems so artificially stylistic in the Dogme-hands is nothing but an extension of the viewer in Nair's seemingly effortless control.  Even setting aside the wonderful character development-- the color, the music and dancing, the teeming cities and lush suburbs display India in all her richness and contrast.  I felt a real sense of elation at the end of this film (don't forget to watch all the end credits!), even as I joked to my companion If I never see another orange flower, it won't be too soon!  "},{"Title":"A family celebration like any other","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Mira Nair's first big film since Mississipi Masala, in the early 90s. Nair moves away from our stereotypical perceptions of India as an impoverished, largely rural nation to focus on the preoccupations of an upper-middle class family preparing to wed their daughter in the arranged tradition.Essentially a comedy, though not played for laughs, Monsoon Wedding is an ensemble piece that lays out the spectacle of family tradition and honour that a wedding provides, while gently probing the tensions that affluence, globalisation and liberalisation are bringing to the country.The bride, for example is conducting an affair right up to the eve of the wedding with the married host of a television talkshow. A close family friend is implicated in child abuse in full view of the guests later in the film. The effects of progress are illustrated when even the domestic servant from the country has her own email address. The sight of mobile phones, german cars and executive golf courses paint a picture of a nation bearing both the fruits and inequities of any other Western country. The intermingling of Hindi and English by most of the characters exhibits the xcultural peculiarities of this fascinating country.The film has an expansiveness afforded by various sub-plots and vignettes including the question of the education of the teenage son, the love story between the entrepreneur and the servant, and the guests flying in from America, being teased about their lack of cultural knowledge.However, it has a detachment as well, which keeps it from being entirely engaging. While the lead actress is strikingly beautiful, you don't really feel for the predicament of her or the prospective husband.Nasureedin Shah, by contrast, does an excellent portrayal of the Father of the bride; facing all the emotional, cultural and financial conflicts that come with being in that position. "},{"Title":"a cornucopia of treats","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair's `Monsoon Wedding' may not be as broadly comic as that other well-attended wedding in town  (that Big Fat Greek one), but it is every bit as universal in its observations and appeal.  Nair makes sure that the India we see in this film is no technological or cultural backwater.  It is, instead, a modern, vibrant land filled with cell phones and golf carts, disco music and high minded TV talk shows.  In much the same way, the people we meet in this large extended family struggle with the vicissitudes of life common to us all.  There are good, well-meaning parents wanting to do what's right for their children, but not always knowing how to cope with the uncertainties of a modern world.  Lalit Verma, for instance, is a father greatly concerned that his two sons are fast becoming directionless nudniks, even though both seem to us to be just average boys trying to grasp onto and express their own individuality.  Aditi, his daughter, has decided to acquiesce to a marriage arranged by her parents when she realizes that she has no future with a married boyfriend who apparently has no intention of ever divorcing his current wife.  It is in this area that `Greek Wedding' and `Monsoon Wedding' part company.  In the former film, an arranged marriage is something to be frowned upon and avoided at any and all costs.  In the latter film, the arranged marriage actually serves as an anchor holding the family in place in a time of rough seas and uncertainty.   Aditi, after some intense soul-searching, comes to realize that marriage to a stranger she can learn to care for over time is preferable to life as perpetual mistress to a man who seems little concerned for her future and happiness.  The difference in attitude between the two films arises, I imagine, from the fact that one is American in origin and the other Indian.  `Monsoon Wedding' is replete with beautifully observed moments that go right to the core of the audience's emotions.   The scene in which Aditi's fiancé forgives her for the affair she has willingly revealed to him is one of the most genuinely moving and romantic moments I have seen in a film in a very long time.  Equally impressive are the sequences later in the film when Aditi's cousin, Ria, finds the courage to expose a close friend of the family who, unbeknownst to anyone else, happens to be a pedophile.  This revelation uncovers an unexpected strength not only in Ria herself, but in Lalit as well, as he is forced to cope with the ramifications of a family in major crisis and to take a personally painful but undeniably necessary course of action to preserve the sanctity of that family.Hopefully, none of this will make the viewer think that `Monsoon Wedding' is heavy-handed or gloomy in either tone or outlook.  Far from it.  It is, in fact, a beautifully acted movie filled with humor, warmth, compassion and life. Nair punctuates this vibrancy by showing us characters dancing from one end of the film to the other.  Be they eastern traditional or westernized disco in character, the dances capture the feel of uninhibited happiness that takes over this close-knit family in a time of celebration.  And their celebration is ours.    "},{"Title":"Marriage party where old evils, like a pedophile relative comes back to haunt the present generation.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A well made movie with a great performance from Shah. Basically a marriage party where the bride to be meets the bridegroom (a NRI from USA). Showing ambivalent emotions when he knows the truth about his wife to be, from herself. Pain and anguish of the bridegroom, who soon realizes his folly and reconciles with his bride to be. Funnily enough the director has handled the social issue of pedophile who could also be a near and dear relative. The indelible impression the pedophiles have on their victims is underlined. Refreshing performance from the youngsters, making the marriage party look colorful. Seasoned Naseruddin Shah shows the pain a person endures when he is torn by the decisions one has to make in a family. Another brilliant performance from him, metting out acceptable justice in the end to set things right. Not to forget the cameo performance by Vijay Raaz, showing a blooming romance. Overall a satisfying experience, watching this movie. Definitly has a repeat value. "},{"Title":"Was I the only one confused?","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To begin with, I'm an anthropologist with over 20 years of working overseas-- but nearly all my dealings with Indians have been the NRI variety. Add to that, a traumatic year of studying Sanskrit at UC Berkeley and it sums up my Indian experience.  Now, having said that, I LOVED THIS FILM!  I was thoroughly confused by the kin connections but managed in spite of it.Reading through the reviews here, I note nearly everyone but a scant few monolingual English speakers enjoyed the code-switching.  Well, sports fans, this is what happens in many multi-language settings.  I note the NRIs confirm this is the way they carry on conversations.  I found it perfectly delightful.The multilayered storyline with the Christian maid and the Marriage planner was likewise delightful.  Too, I was interested in the comments of reviewers who report the accuracy of the depiction of Delhi.In sum, I loved the slice of life portrayal of upper class Indians but found the genealogical aspects of the film confusing but never boring. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and gripping film courtesy of Bollywood","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mira Nair's excellent and very original Monsoon Wedding was an absolute triumph for this viewer. I was extremely impressed by the multiple sub-plots which were written as simple stories yet packed a wallop when meshed into the rewarding finale. This served as a somewhat naive introduction to modern Indian culture via cinema but followed the dual language dialog with subtitles (of note were a little shabby) and enjoyed this zesty celebration of life and love. Very funny moments coupled cleverly with extremely serious matters in other quite delicate/risqué scenes - really captured the duality method of storytelling this most welcome to see in realistic comedy/dramas. My only reservation, albeit a slight one, was with some of the actors performances which weak and almost amateurish. Not in the case to of the key/lead roles but some of the supporting/minor characters. Otherwise a sweet and tremendous film experience! "},{"Title":"a joyous celebration with a twist or two","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a celebration of life sort of movie, humorous, delightful, theatrical, emotional. The subplots were somewhat raw, but everything gets resolved, much as in real life, incompletely yet complete enough. The wedding plannerand his girl stole my heart. Its a busy movie, lots of jittery camera work. If I didn't know better, I'd say Robert Altman had a hand in it. There are many layers of interaction and a wealth of characters to entrance. I thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Good, but one puzzling sub-plot","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm glad to see someone else here has shown dislike of the family bombshell sub-plot. While I understood the reason for the sub-plot, surely there must have been a less controversial way of achieving the same end.Except for that one sticking point, I found the movie to be quite enjoyable, light-hearted and fun.  "},{"Title":"a wonderful feel-good movie","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a movie to be enjoyed and not really analyzed. it's a feast of colors and music and chatter and laughter, along with a few serious moments, that brilliantly depicts the life of upper-middle class indians today. the language, going between english and hindi and punjabi, was absolutely true to how indians speak today, and one of the most enjoyable aspects of the film. i had difficulty with it too, but i can't believe that people would lower their rating for a film because they couldn't understand what the actors were saying. i've seen many films -- mostly british, often irish -- where i can barely understand what the actors are saying, but i realize that the movie is great. the ones that come to mind right away are billy elliot and waking ned devine. i had the most difficult time understanding what was going on in these movies! anyway -- don't skip this movie because of that -- you're really doing yourself a disservice if you do that. monsoon wedding is a success. "}{"Title":"MIRA'S BEST, SO FAR","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair flattered to deceive after her first film, Salaam Bombay. The contrived tale in Kama Sutra lacked maturity, its only saving grace being the two young actresses. I cannot comment on My Own Country, but I have heard that it was a good film. After Salaam Bombay, the only meaningful film Mira Nair made was Mississipi Masaala. Now, this new film of hers, Monsoon Wedding gives us new  hopes of Mira maturing as a film maker.The storyline is not complex, although the relationship between various characters is still not clear to me, even after watching the film a number of times! What is interesting is the treatment of the simple theme; a wedding in a joint Punjabi family residing in New Delhi, India's capital. The family itself is well-to-do with most of the uncles and aunts of the bride-to-be being N.R.Is (Non Resident Indians).The bride-to-be has an affair with a TV presenter. She confesses to her American born Indian fiance about her affair, and the real, conservative Hindu Indian in the young groom rears his head and almost cancels the wedding. Finally, his love for the girl makes him relent and he agrees to marry her. There are other side shows in this seemingly pedestrian plot. The child molester Tej Uncle (Rajat Kapoor), who had robbed Ria, Lalit Verma's (Naseeruddin Shah) niece, of her childhood many years ago and turned the young woman into a misogamist. When she sees Tej trying to do the same with another little girl in the household, she finally confronts him. Another sub-plot (it is a little overworked, I felt) is the sudden impact the maid (a converted low caste Hindu) in Verma's household beginhs to have on the event manager, Mr P.K. Dubey, and finally how they get married; the same time when Verma's daughter gets married.Brilliant camera work which encapsulates India's diversity and stark realities adds to the beauty of this film. The colours are magnificent. Acting is superb with Naseeruddin Shah, as Lelit Verma, the father of the bride giving probably his best performance after Nishaant in the 1970's. Rajat Kapoor, the actor who played Mahatma Gandhi in The Making of a Mahatma gives an unforgettable performance as the squeaky clean uncle from abroad who goes around the joint family looking afterf  everyone's welfare and quietly and cold bloodedly continues molesting little nieces and grand nieces. Roya's ourtburst at him and her running away with the Bengali friends and Verma going to plead with her to return home, all adds to the (melo) drama.Monsoon Wedding is a charming film. Although largely light hearted, it also highlights some of the stark realities and contrasts in an India that is fast changing, where the granny is more well versed in stock market, where the Christian (converted) maid says she knows email and so on. If you have not watched it, please do. This is Mira Nair's best attempt, so far.  "},{"Title":"A feel good movie","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a masterpiece of cinema, just an excellent feel good movie.  This movie combines just the right amount of comedy and drama along with some excellent characters.It all takes place in the four chaotic and joyous days leading up to an upper-middle class wedding in Northern India.  I know very little about Indian culture and really enjoyed seeing the preparations and traditions that these characters were involved in.  The mix of languages and the switch between English, Hindi and Punjabi was not difficult to follow and it added a great deal to the flavour and authentic feel of the movie.Some of the plot lines are a little thin but are so entertaining that it doesn't matter at all.  I particularly liked the character of Dubey, the wedding planner, who had some great comic moments.The movie touches on many different issues, some very serious and others very funny.  It's not just a comedy - but a comedy-drama with a touch of Bollywood.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess the first thing I would like to say is not all Americans had trouble with the language thing.  The first few times it happened it caught me by surprise, but within 10 minutes (or less, even) I had no problems whatsoever. This was a great film . . . I will admit I am totally ignorant as to Indian traditions or way of life, so I enjoyed the film on the level of just watching a family try to prepare for one of life's biggest moments.  The size of the cast did not bother me, though I did have a bit of trouble keeping track of who was whose cousin, and who was whose niece and who was whose child, but even that didn't detract from my enjoyment of this film. I thought the acting was great and though not much time was spent on character development, I got a pretty fair feel for what and who everyone was inside.  I liked the 'hand-held' feel of the cinematography -- I felt like I was actually there with them, going through it all.Someone mentioned that it was disappointing that the only thing that happened to the molester was that he was kicked out of the wedding.   I didn't see it that way . . . I felt like he was actually being kicked out of the family -- that he would no longer be welcome in their lives.  And from the admittedly little I know of Eastern culture (and from the reactions portrayed by the actors and actresses in that scene), I believe this to be an even more severe punishment than turning him over to the law. Over all, I was thoroughly satisfied with the film and was very glad to walk away from a happy, love-filled ending. "},{"Title":"Outstanding slice of life movie; a gem","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just read all the comments made to date about this movie and was relieved to see that about 90% of those who either are native of India or familiar with it, were very pleased by the way the movie depicted Delhi and the family. To me, it had seemed to have the flavor of authenticity -- as much as one can expect to get from a movie -- so it's nice to have that confirmed by the majority.Aside from the interesting differences between cultures, what struck me were the similarities among families, their relationships, their problems, etc.  And, like people in real life, the central characters were presented as more than one-dimensional -- they had flaws, some minor and some major, with which they cope and force others to cope, and somehow -- in this case -- were able to achieve kind of a triumph.  The relation between the roles of men and women remind me in some ways of that which existed in the U.S.A. in the 30s, 40s, and 50s.  The film had so many characters that I wish I'd had a genogram (a family map) or at least a program (you can't tell the players without a program) to keep all the relatives straight.  No matter; for those of us who liked it a lot, this is a movie well worth seeing several times to catch all the parts that we missed the first time.  In that way, it reminds me of a piece of complex serious music -- one does not expect (and should not demand) to get everything at a first hearing from something with any weight. I think that some of those comments that this is a cookie cutter movie, a Robert Altman version of Father of the Bride but in India, are both fair and unfair.  A wedding is a traditional major liturgical event in almost all cultures.  Two people from different families come together and form a new family.  Call it cookie cutter and Altman-esque if you wish, but isn't it at the time of these most significant of human events -- birth, death, marriage -- that families come together and those same things transpire in every culture?  A babe is born?  The dead are put to rest?  A new family is formed?  And how many weddings have _you_ ever attended that were NOT Altman-esque in their cast of characters?   If a scholar of different cultures were to compare cultures, certainly we'd want to know the role of family, of the autonomy and power of men vs. women, fidelity, class, and how marriage, death, birth, and the raising of the young are handled -- wouldn't we?  This movie covers almost all that ground.If your favorite movies have lots of special effects, chases, fights, etc., don't see it, you won't like it.  If you don't like slice of life movies, don't see it, you won't like it.  But if you enjoyed Smoke Signals, Gosford Park, The Long Road (the Chinese movie, or was it the Long Road Home?), chances are you'll _really_ like this one. I gave it a 9 and it could as well have been 10.    "},{"Title":"A very straight- forward comment for Monsoon Wedding","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Straight to the points  - I didn't see any reason for frequent close- ups on every single scene...!  My stomach almost couldn't hold it... I am assuming that the home video feeling was intentional, but it just didn't work at all when the close- ups were not even stable (yes, very shaky indeed)!  - Some of the subplots were unnecessary...  the story overall was a bit soapy, though I felt the warmth and on your face family and friendship love...   - Overall, Monsoon Wedding really felt like a documentary of upper class India.  It would have been a great documentary of upper- class Indian wedding with such beautiful art direction, set design, costumes, and brilliant Indian music...  And these were the reasons why I stayed for the entire movie.    "},{"Title":"what a party!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it was a blast watching this movie. very entertaining. too bad this was not shown at a better equipped theatre here in toronto. however, the audience was great, and some people were tapping along with the music, including myself and my boyfriend! we watched it right after having dinner at a fabulous indian restaurant downtown.i used to watch a lot of indian movies a long time ago, and what a bliss it was to return to it. i must comment that while i find it hard to listen to indian/hindu speech (it's too fast, and a little harsh for my untrained ears), i find their music beautiful and full of energy. looovee the male singing voices; though the female voices are often lovely in singing, they can sometimes be a little too high pitched. the only big deficit for the movie was the simplistic story line, add to that a very laughable romance between the wedding planner and the housemaid (though i found both characters thoroughly enjoyable on their own). the movie was far from perfect, but to make up for that, it was thoroughly enjoyable and delightful. highly recommended for anyone looking for a good time. "},{"Title":"Radiates with joy, depicting a wonderful side of India","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having just watched Monsoon Wedding, I want to give Ms Nair a big hug! Totally the opposite end of the spectrum from the in-yer-face depiction of the brutalities suffered by the poor in India in Salaam Bombay, Monsoon Wedding radiates with the a brand of joy that is particularly Indian. And it captures it cleverly without hitting you over the head with it, as seen in the often frenetic Bollywood movies. She made what seemed to be a Bollywood-like movie  (I swear I've seen many of those actors in trailers on Indian TV), and made it work. This is truly a wonderful 'chick-flick', and shows the strength and the beauty of the Indian women in a celebratory way. And it also depicts the stress that women in India face, often from other women to marry and produce children, and other seamier things, including Eve-teasing.Sure, the plot was simplistic, and you know what was going to happen. But the movie made you want it to happen, and you were happy that it did. My advise, check your analytical mind at the door, and simply bring in your heart to watch Monsoon wedding. Save your brain for Momento and Mulholland Drive.The noise, overabundance of chararacters, and the mixture of chaos and confusion that so many westerners commented negatively on was such a clever porthole into life in India, with its billion people squashed together. If you've ever been to India, you know what I mean. It is a small scale of what life is like in the large cities in India. And it does have a number of in-jokes and cultural norms (e.g. white is for widows, not weddings) that westerners may miss. And there's particular brand of English spoken in India, which I call Hinglish, that the movie naturally depicts.Another comment that was made was the difficulty in understanding the dialogue, which switched from Hindi and English in mid sentences. This takes some getting used to, to quickly switch the brain from listening mode to subtitle mode and back in a matter of seconds, but after a while it becomes easy. But the hidden message in that kind of dialogue, which does seem to occur a lot in India, is the depth of which multiple cultures have invaded and have been embraced by the Indian psyche, and that its growing middle class is truly an example of a combination of traditional and globalized cultures.Basically I'm happy to see this movie being well received by us westerners, giving us a peek into the the Indian psyche and world, which is some ways seem completely foreign and in others ways, no different than any other culture, with underlying dysfunctions in families, hidden secrets, financial pressures, role-pressures and class divisions. But the central communication of this film is joy, and it does this easefully, leaving you with a happier heart than when you started. I think that's worth the price of admission! "},{"Title":"See this movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie entertains and builds to a well-earned emotional pay-off. The film-makers let you see the humanity of all the characters, which comes out in their flaws as well as their virtues.  As in the best fiction, and in life, people display differing parts of their personalities, depending on who they are with and what they are doing.  The loving, conflicted father reminded me of Mississippi Masala and of Eat Drink Man Woman. "},{"Title":"Very authentic, lots of fun, and also very touching - loved it!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I grew up in New Delhi, where this film is set, so perhaps I had an easier time identifying with the situations and issues in this film than the average viewer - and I throughly enjoyed it.Mira Nair has really managed to capture the mix of confusion, chaos and sheer fun that is typical of all Indian weddings (which is often the only time most members of an extended family manage to actually meet up), along with the 'ostentation' and sheer joie-de-vivre that typifies the specifically Punjabi variant of the Indian wedding (cue the singing and dancing, which was grrreat), without shying away from tackling some serious issues that often lie under the surface in many families, and the complex dynamics of the interaction between members of an extended family. One great thing about this film for me was that it captured how  a lot of people feel about the extended family - not always pleasant or easy to deal with, with lots of internal tensions, often messy, but in the end something one would be loath to not have around in the background, and a source of strength.What differentiated this film from a lot of movies from India that focus on weddings was its sheer authenticity. Every character seemed real. The language was perfect - this is how people like us speak when we're in India (or with others from India or Pakistan) - a mixture of Hindi, English and any other language we happen to have in common, usually in the space of a single sentence. This is probably not easy for people who haven't grown up in multi-lingual societies to appreciate, but this is exactly what it is like and for us it's as natural as speaking in English all the time is for your average American. It does seem to be beyond the abilites of many people who've reviewed the film on this site to understand though, but I suspect this is sheer laziness. I watched it with Americans, Colombians and Mexicans, and everyone loved it. As for the accents well, that's how Punjabis speak English, so too bad if you find it tough to understand. I found the accents in Gone with the Wind incomprehensible, too. )I'm really glad Mira Nair didn't compromise with the complexities of spoken 'Hinglish' to make the film more comprehensible for an international audience, as that would have robbed the film of one of its principal charms. Contrast this with the atrocious dialogue in Fire', which rang false for every moment of its running time.On to specifics I thought Naseeruddin Shah, Shefali Shetty and Vijay Raaz were simply superb, and also liked Lilette Dubey's turn as a typical upper-middle-class Punjabi housewife a lot. Naseer is such a wonderful actor, and it was a pleasure to see him tackle a role that was good enough for him, after a long time. He handled comedy, frustration, tenderness, confusion, pride, ... all with typical ease. Ditto for Shefali, a well-known TV star in India, in her first big-screen role (as far as I know). Hope to see more of her! Tillottama Shome as Alice looked lovely and acted really convincingly too, and Vijay Raaz's paan-chewing (or should that be marigold-scoffing?) Bihari tent-man was both hilarious in his exasperating-ness, and touching in his eventual genuineness.Another high point was the soundtrack, with its mixture of Hindi filmi hits (old and new), Punjabi bhangra, and ghazals and for once a traditional Punjabi wedding song (unlike the syrupy versions Hindi films are replete with).Also, I liked the fact that no attempt was made in the outdoor shots to make Delhi, which I love but which is in many parts a chaotic mess )) look prettier or more sanitised than it is. The city looked totally real, which is hardly surprising given that everything was shot on location and as a resident of the city, I could actually work out where the Vermas lived, went shopping, and so on. This is the most accurate depiction of life as I know it that I have seen on-screen, ever. If you're an upper-middle-class Punjabi, this is how you live, eat , speak, marry ....So overall, very authentic, very real, very amusing, very satisfying. Only quibbles are perhaps that I couldn't work out why the hell Aditi was seeing that sleaze Vikram (unless he was just amazing in bed or something) and I did find Vikram's talk show a bit much and a slightly unsubtle way of introducing the 'culture-clash' motif. "},{"Title":"The language thing . . .","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A number of reviewers here have criticized the film for the difficulty of the language (although some recognize that this is what actually occurs in India).  I found the switching between Hindi and Indian English fascinating and a great addition to the movie.  And . . . by the way . . . the English is not, in the words of one reviewer, broken English it is just the Indian variety of English.  Indian English is just as legitimate a form of English as American English and British English.  On sheer numbers, theirs has at least a colorable claim as the standard (i.e. there are more speakers of it than there are of American English or British English).  The use of English was not some special plot device for Nair to show how western things have become in India, it was just an honest portrayal of the expanding Indian middle class.  Finding fault in the film for the language is misplaced.  It's like a Brit saying that they like movies from the USA, but find that the awful broken American English and accents getting in the way.  Call me crazy, but I'd rather De Niro didn't start speaking like Prince Charles (or vice versa for that matter).By the way, I had no problem with understanding the accents at all.  I admit that this could be because I grew up in England and have therefore probably been exposed to these accents more than most people in the USA.I would urge everyone to see the movie.  One of the best I have viewed for a while. "}{"Title":"A joyous experience","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Congratulations to Mira Nair on her fine direction in this film.  I was enchanted, moved, and surprised by Monsoon Wedding.  I did not know what to expect and was treated to almost 2 hours of brilliant screenwriting, incredible cinematography, and a wonderful score. The ensemble cast did a terrific job and Ms. Nair successfully manages to highlight the idiosyncrasies of each character. I highly recommend this film to anyone who wants to have a look inside a complex family's joys, struggles, and pain.  You will come out of the cinema feeling uplifted and enchanted.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Foreign Films Ever!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrific movie definitely worth seeing. The story is of life in the upper class in Northern India, although it doesn't souly focus on them. It begins 4 days before a wealthy man's daughter(Aditi) is wed, an arranged marriage. However, she is in love still with her ex-boyfriend, leading to trouble. As I mentioned, the movie doesn't souly focus on this subject matter. In fact, less than 1/8th of the movie focuses on that plot line. There is also the Bride's cousin, Ria, who learns her younger sister, Aliya, is being sexually abused by the same man who sexually abused her at the same age. There is Aditi's younger brother, who shocks the family by his interests in life, including dancing, singing, and cooking. This leads to trouble just a few days before the wedding. And much more! All this mess mounts up, but will it destroy the wedding?I particularly liked the acting a lot in this movie. It all seems so real, it takes you on the emotional ride of life. I rarely have emotional reactions at movies, but here, at points, I would be laughing and crying at the same time, because so much was going on. The only complaint I had about the movie was that when the characters spoke English, their Indian accents were heavy and hard to understand, and since they were speaking English, there wasn't any subtitles then. However, the plot wasn't too hard to catch on to, and therefore, I give it 9/10 stars! Go see it...NOW!!! "},{"Title":"3.5 stars","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The setting is a wedding in Delhi, between Aditi Verma, who is impatient with her married lover not committing to leaving his wife, and Hemant Rai, an Indian computer programmer who lives in Houston. The marriage has been arranged by Aditi's father, Lalit, and mother, Pimmi. Lalit worries about what everything is costing and about whether the wedding coordinator, P.K. Dube (who has a tendency to eat the marigolds, speak in both definite and vague language in the same sentence, and wonder whether he will even have the opportunity to coordinate his own wedding), will get everything done in time. And there are many more characters, most of whom you will be able to keep track of before the film is over. They mostly speak English, but also speak Hindi and Punjabi, switching back and forth with more ease and frequency than the people of Quebec switch between French and English. You get a definite sense of place, and yet feel mostly at home. While it doesn't have the same over-the-top feeling of a typical Bollywood (the nickname of the Bombay-based film industry in India) production, there is still plenty of music, singing, and dancing, but here mostly in the believable context of a wedding and preparation for it. The colors are brilliant and alive. And alive is probably the best description of the film. The emotions include an abundant measure of joy mixed with love, passion, anger, and more. The serious moments are fairly few in number and yet are done well. I really enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"Lively, Colourful Slice 'O Bollywood","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The critic who wrote that Monsoon Wedding is Altman Goes to Bollywood had it exactly right.This is a most enjoyable film about a culture that is familiar and very different all at the same time. The mix (sometimes in the same sentence) of the actors' native tongue and English is a delight and the various stories surrounding the wedding are well developed. Let's face it, the female characters are exotically stunning too, which helps. This will have a good run in the art house theatres and will be worth a purchase on DVD, as there's a lot of detail to savour, just like Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"Excellent because of Language (Profanity)","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish all Indian movies could use the language used in this movie freely. There is too much censorship on Indian Hindi Movies. Honorable Great Actor Nasseeruddin Shah has done excellent job.Honorable Great Actor Vijay Raaz has worked very hard and has done very good job.  "},{"Title":"Pure fun!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Extremely energetic movie! The story of the four days that culminate with an arranged wedding. Very funny and very entertaining. And also so very colourful! It's almost magical. At the end of this movie, you feel like dancing your way out of the cinema! Also very moving when we're told the story of Ria. One interesting fact you get a different view of India than we're traditionally shown.Out of 100, I gave this one 85. That's good for ***½ out of **** stars.Seen in Toronto, at the Alliance Atlantis Cumberland Cinemas, on March 22th, 2002. "},{"Title":"Such a melting pot of culture and life filled with promise is rarely so lovingly depicted.","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thanks to Declan Quinn's cinematography, the colors of the Indian culture in 'Monsoon Wedding' are as richly hued as anything I've seen since the visually-sumptuous 'Moulin Rouge.' Director Mira Nair (who visited problematic love also in 'Mississippi Masala') has layered the Indian and British worlds like vivid saris by creating a whirl of passions and disappointments as romantic as the Indians and as verbally expressive as the Brits.I'm not even going to complain as I did with Altman's 'Godsford Park' that I missed dialogue because of accents and stylishly colliding conversation. Here I missed some because Nair courageously mixes Hindi, Punjabi, and English-no doubt a common occurrence in the busy markets of India. Nair intercuts shots of the crowded streets with her story about a similarly busy upper-middle class wedding where people come and go in each other's lives like the chaotic streets and robust dialogue. About this exotic world Nair has said, Today, Delhi is a strange 'globalized' world where tradition butts heads with modernity at every turn.'To Nair's credit, she doesn't make it all romantically colorful-the abuse of one child by an uncle makes credible that such a complex arrangement of two families could not be without its sorrow and shame. A young servant girl rescued and subsequently courted by the wedding coordinator is just sweet but not sumptuous when juxtaposed with the bright colors and sensual dancing of the higher class. The bride-to-be's affair with a married TV talk show host almost derails the arranged marriage framing the movie. However, too many of these characters tend to types (the young buck, the effeminate son, the lusty niece), and the plot is often too conventional (we know how it will all end up).The combination of pop, folk, and jazz in the soundtrack is another reflection of Nair's wish to blend cultures. Her 'Bollywood' style (Indian musicals in which characters can break out in song and dance at anytime) has as much of Woody Allen's 'Everybody says I Love You' as it does the traditional Bombay spectaculars.In the end, the relentless rain washes away impurities to leave a colorful India where lovers and other strangers are finally at peace. Such a melting pot of culture and life filled with promise is rarely so lovingly depicted. 'Monsoon Wedding' deservedly won the Golden Lion as the best film at Venice. "},{"Title":"Salaam Mira!!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair presents a wonderful film that intoxicates viewers with more color, heart and spirit than any movie I'd seen in a quite some time.  This movie captures the vibrancy of 21st century India; a country crippled by poverty and corruption has now begun a flirtatious relationship with free market capitalism.  More importantly, it is a depiction of India having begun an affair with risk taking, individual expression and the truth. Monsoon Wedding brilliantly illustrates the youth of a modern day post-Gandhi India, a country where 20-somethings face the daunting and arduous &#150; albeit bittersweet - cultural balancing act that is unlike anything their forefathers ever had to endure.   It's a land where everyone adheres to century old customs and clothing while keeping a firm grip on their cell phones &#150; staying connecting and keenly aware of what's happening elsewhere, particularly in America.  It's a nation where women are emerging as less afraid to confront emotional and physical scars inflicted upon them by men, and where men are at a loss as to how to sew their own machismo insecurities. Nair is also bold in going where no Bollywood production dare go chartering the course of the unmarried girl approaching 30 and the subsequent subtle pity from elder relatives, breathing emotion into the dutiful servant (who, incidentally, has more head on her shoulders than anyone else in the otherwise `privileged' household), and connecting us with an infectious young boy who's intricate knowledge of dance routines, fashion and masala-esque cooking leaves his father with more than just a few gray hairs. Above all, Monsoon Wedding is a celebration of life in a new India &#150; an India that is finally coming of age.    "},{"Title":"Amazing and so much fun","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair, Sabrina Dhawan, Declan Quinn, the whole cast and crew have made an incredible picture that will definitely stand the test of time. I am Indian and I love movies, both English, some Hindi,and other international cinema. I love this movie. I saw it 3 times already and I soaked up everything in the mis-en-scene and watched the acting and camera work closely. It is a well crafted film. It flows naturally and all the main characters are defined well enough to tell the story effectively. The acting is superb. Man, is Uncle Tej creepy or what. Everyone, cast and crew does a good job.I saw the film before I read any reviews and I'm glad I got to be surprised by the events that unfolded before me. Also I was reluctant to watch the film because I thought it would be the Bollywood version of what an Indian/South Asian wedding would be like, but it was really true to life. And my goodness the groom, the Aussie, and Umang were really easy on the eyes...good casting.Mr. Shah, Miss Dubey, Mr. Raaz, Miss Shome, Miss Das, Miss Shetty, Mr. Dabas, and the girl who did the dance at the wedding and the Aussie actor acted well. All the performances and the dialogue were so organic. The movie strikes amazing emotional chords and has both poignant and funny moments. The cinematography and composition and duration of shots was wonderful. I have the poster for the movie, and when I look at it I am proud of being an Indian, of Indian filmmaking, of women in film, and the story that this movie tells. Bravo, Bravo.Mira Nair rocks. Whether you know it or not you, doing what you do inspires me to be both bold and creative in/with my life. Rock on..... "},{"Title":"Lush and complex love letter to India","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a masterful film. Each of the twenty or so members of the wedding party are fully drawn with almost perfect economy. The Bride's younger brother becomes a rich and unique character after just 3 short scenes. The juxtaposition of a touching romance between a pair of hired workers amidst the arranged and lavish upperclass wedding preparations is perfect as the loving heart of the film. A spectacular location, beautifully dressed for a traditional Indian wedding is just luminous in Declan Quinn's gorgeous and mostly hand-held camera work. Quinn's grainy, available light panoramas of Delhi are a breathtaking contrast and compliment to the lush scenes of the wedding preparation. Moving deftly between naturalistic, even sometimes tragic, emotions and light-hearted irony, the film's pace and counterpoints struck me as precisely on the mark. This is a really wonderful film full of a love of life, humanity and India. Simply irresistible. "}{"Title":"Entertaining foreign film","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this independant film from director Mira Nair over the weekend and it was more entertaining than i had expected. A tale of a disfunctional family throwing a big wedding in India, the film is at times disorienting due to odd editing and some weird camera touches and slow motion effects.. and i often had a hard time understanding the dialouge due to it being spoken with strong accents.. However, the film works because of excellent casting as almost all of the actors work well and are interesting people... the film was fun. GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Reservations.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has to be expected that any and every film, backed by small and big monsterous production companies, will be subjected to the wand of hype. Monsoon wedding has not escaped that wand. It's a shame. On the whole the movie gives you a slice of Indian life in the form of an impending marriage. It should not be mistaken with offering a slice of Indian culture, life representing Indian society. The characters in this little celluloid play are mostly cliches of Altman's movie characters of past and bad cliches at that. The saving grace of monsoon wedding comes in the form of Naseeruddin Shah and Vijay Raaz who make their art seem so effortless and enjoyable. I have to thank the writer and director for at least giving us two well sketched out characters and not making them boring and indie cinema stereotypes as is the case with Ria, Rahul, Pimmi, CL, Shashi, etc. Vijay Raaz as Dubey provides excellent comic relief which should be solely credited to vijay raaz and his unique physical appearence. Shah and Raaz together give us more comic relief but sadly we are taken away from them to deal with twists that are not actually twists. I suppose one should except such blundering clangers from an improvised screenplay.  "},{"Title":"Feelgood factors and insight into modern India","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Delightful insight into modern day well-to-do Indian society (mostly in English but some subtitles). Combines a warm description of the stages of a modern Hindu wedding but with all the western accessories that make it accessible, understandable and one with which we can identify. The emotional pace of the movie lets us continue as an observer until almost the end, when suddenly the audience is swept up by a well-timed rush of feelgood factors. Bollywood meets mobile phones and gets away with it. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful film. The acting and script are trememdous. The characters have much depth and are wonderfully portrayed. Background family relations and relationships are subtly revealed through the clever script and careful and skilled acting and directing. A delicate snapshot--at wedding time--of the life and culture of one Indian family . "},{"Title":"nice but ...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  for me the movie came with a lot of hype, a venice golden lion award, golden globe nomination ... mira nair's film, an accomplished cast and so on. the one thing i constantly heard was that the movie was full of fun and frolic and a joyful watch. contrary to that i thought that monsoon wedding despite its pomp and gaeity, colour and charm, music and sound, was one of the most melancholic movies ive ever seen. the entire movie is laced with the flavor of pathos. it shows how despite the obvious and the superfluous the agony, the indecision, the difficulties, the trauma that lies behind arranged indian marriages.the movie though suffers from an overdose of sexual tension. every character seems to have some problems in this regard. i also felt that some very serious issues were lightly touched upon and easily brushed away. and there really isnt much of a plot in a conventional sense. the ending is also quite cliched in a bollywood way.despite these flaws, the movie scores thanks to some brilliant acting especially by shefali shetty and vijay raaz. a good watch, just not a simple or easy movie. i found it pretty disturbing in many ways.in all, a compact 8! "},{"Title":"very realistic and beautiful picture","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must admit that this movie is a VERY REALISTIC VIEW ON India habits + lifestyle + mentality and even the Indian English, the houses and the streets - everything in all its details MAKE ME FEEL PRESENT in India!!!! (and I have been there quite some times, usually spending months, and having many friends there and thus witnessing from nearby Indian life and participating in it)I love the honesty of this picture, how film director Mira Nair is depicting the different cultural values. He don't try to give a better impression of Indian life than reality is, although himself being Indian!!! (many people would hang-up from their country a better picture than it is) The different characters are very well depicted and bring all this to a vivid painting.And even from cinematographic aspect this movie is great. The colors, decoration, house setting and actor's expressions are well portraying the reality.Only over-classed by the less known movie SAMSARA of Pan Nalin. But many Western and Bollywood movies score much less than Monsoon wedding!!! "},{"Title":"The best bollywood movie I have seen !!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Have you ever seen a film that seems like it was taken at your own sister or brother (or any other family member's) wedding? For those looking forward to a raw piece of cinema that doesn't deal with the world's hardships in connotations of the wrongs this world has done to us, but the reality in each of our lives, Mira Nair gives us Monsoon Wedding, all that and more. Watching Monsoon Wedding will identify an Indian person's NRI lives with at least, at least, one memory of their life. Perhaps one they cherish or one they loath to think of, but certainly Monsoon Wedding affirms the fact that a raw real film can be made without having to stoop to run of the mill Bollywood standards, and without leaving the norms of a normal film.Shah, Shefali and Rajat Kapoor give amazing performances and we see the character and not a single trait of the person in the whole movie. "},{"Title":"global uniformation","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although India is still one of the few countries by in large able to cultivate their cultural and social heritage, the ever-pressing influence of the so-called modern western civilization takes its toll - superficially, this is not at all that negative, even though it promotes a lifestyle that is by far unsustainable and should therefore be critically questioned and analyzed.  Unfortunately it is just a comedy, thus unable to convey this message to the viewing public.   "},{"Title":"must see wedding","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it is either you love it or laugh it.in it's simplicity line, there are many complexity stated in this movie. the beauty lies in its cultural background and the characters built upon one single event the wedding. but you got to see many love and faces of family life here. love of a father, daughter, mother, sister, aunt, even in laws.in it's simplicity, you simply fall in love with the family and ended up joins the wedding yourself.the simple flaw of this movie however is off course due to its many characters, we're left with the red line of it. though it should've been more beautiful to see and learn more with the individual characters, though it might need more than additional 200 mins to cover all that.but it was forgiven. we were invited to a wedding, and we see this lovable family interacts and intacts. and that's the universal meaning of a wedding. to celebrate love and love to celebrate.a perfect sunday-family movie.  "},{"Title":"any movie with an indian wedding is an A in my book","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the plot is a little predictable, but the actors do such a fine job with their parts that you'll hardly mind knowing what's coming. there are no less than five storylines being woven together around the central wedding, but it's dubey's love story that stands out and grabs the viewer's attention. his relationship with alice is so quiet, gentle, understated that you can't help getting involved and wishing them happiness.even if you manage to remain uninterested in the many plotlines, mira nair has created a visual and auditory masterpiece. the film's color scheme is bright--reds, purples, golds, and the profuse number of marigolds gives an almost tactile sensation. the soundtrack is amazing too, perfectly suited to the mood of every scene. "}{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really, really liked this film. I've seen a lot of good movies lately, and this one surely makes it to the top of the list. What I especially liked is the no-nonsense telling of the sub-plots. The movie just touches the plots here and there in a very well edited way, all cumulating to the end which is mostly focussed on the excellent actor who plays the father of the bride. I won't say anything about the stories, but one thing that struck me is that in my view this is more a drama, though brought light-hearted in parts, than it is a comedy. I'm still wondering what comedy aspects there are in this movie. Anyway Go see this movie!! "},{"Title":"Quite the wet blanket","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So far as my own point of view goes Mira was quite at an advantage since the last film of her's that I'd seen was 'Cumasutra A Tale of Lewd' after which any effort would have been an improvement. I do not intend to say here that I liked the film, but I certainly could not dislike it as much as that earlier piece. As for the question of the film bagging Venice's Golden Lion, I will say that it was entirely because of a western audience delighting in the exotic-ness of a third-world film interpretation of the Hollywood/British ensemble romantic comedy.The film shoots itself in the foot at an early stage with its pathetic attempts at thrill humor (women comparing breast sizes, smart-ass children spying adults naked, an incongruous sequence of a TV debate on censorship where a fat dubbing artiste is called in to recreate the dialogue of a copulation sequence). The plot revolves around a wedding in a rich n' loud Punjabi family whose sundry members include a worried Father-of-the-Bride, his wife, the daughter who's having an affair with a married man, assorted sexually desperate and pedophiliac relatives and the aforementioned smart-ass children. The story moves about in a very predictable way, often painfully so, and at its 120 odd min length asks for too much of your patience. Trimming it down by 45 min wouldn't have improved the quality of the film, but there would have been that less of it to endure. The slapstick element in the form of a romance between the housemaid and the wedding contractor could have been mildly amusing in a film of much better overall quality but like most other elements of this film, it begins to grate. Various models and NRI-recruits display their typical vacuousness and it is left to a handful of seasoned actors to salvage as much of this venture as they can.So is there any silver lining to this cloudNaseeruddin Shah as the bride's father makes for a picture of dignity in this unholy pastiche. Although one could not ever count it among his more striking performances, it goes without dispute the film benefits immeasurably from the experience and essential solidity of this thespian. He builds a rapport with the audience bit by bit and uses this intimacy to lend a touching credibility to his dramatic scenes towards the end of the film. Lilette Dubey as his wife lends very good support and it's nice to see a film that features sexual intimacy between middle-ageds without sensationalizing it. Shefali Chhaya as an ex-victim of the pedophiliac relative is sincere but hampered by utter cliché.One person who seems to have had fun with this film is composer Mychael Danna. The credit titles roll with an amusing blend of typical Punjabi Baaraat and Western March music. Shots of city traffic (while nice to view, wholly unrelated to the film's plot and adding nothing to it) are punctuated with well executed inspirations from Indian classical music and a wonderful thumri plays as the background to a rather tiresome car-sex scene. If Danna himself has composed these then he represents the Western equivalent of our Vanraj Bhatia, being able to easily fuse the music of disparate cultures. To reflect its Punjabi ambience though, some brain-chewing songs have been imported from other sources for sequences including a horrifying one where a younger relative dresses up as a veritable street-walker and prances to a ludicrous beat while her elders and assorted suitors beam on (the former proudly and the latter lustfully).Mira's love for color could have meant well for the look of a wedding film but this doesn't really reflect in the final product except for the irrelevant traffic shots.  "},{"Title":"HEART WARMING MOVIE","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is an absolute gem of a motion picture. Dragged to this film I went kicking and screaming. I didn't want to see some sappy love movie. However upon viewing this marvelous motion picture, I realized the importance of such culturally diverse films. I had a wonderful time, full of laughing and a slight tear or two. Anyone with a taste for quality in story and plot will love this movie. P.S. there is not that much subtitle to read so don't fret and enjoy the show! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really have any idea what I was going in to see, other than something about a wedding with the possibility of rain involved.  I'm pretty worn out on formula Hollywood pictures and was eager to drop some dough and elected to see another foreign film I knew little about.  Deep characters, believable failabilities, jarring music with a stirring beat, costumes, dance, and wultiple stories intertwine and intersect in an nice finale. Needless to say, I was a deer trapped in the headlights, before this grand spectacle, watching it continually unfold.  As pleased as I was with Amelie, I was more-so with Monsoon wedding.  Both will find immediate space in my collection, to be seen again and again. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've seen in a LONG time.  The acting was superb, the camera work was flawless, the music was enchanting, the story was touching, and the characters were easy to fall in love with. This was a great look into the Culture of a traditional Punjabi family living in modern times. Also, the way they switched back & forth from English to Punjabi was an interesting touch- it made the experience even better!  Mira Nair is truly an artist! "},{"Title":"Charming but not sentimental","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. Wonderful insight into the modern, global, Indian world - and families of every culture. Shot with innovation and intelligence. Great story that is both funny and poignant. By the same director as Mississippi Massala. "},{"Title":"Bollywood Splendour with Mira Nair's Touch. 8 of 10.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the director often emphasises, this film is a work of love. We feel her love for the Bollywood film, for her characters, for India, in every scene. True to tradition, this movie has all the components of the genre comedy, drama, family traditions and conflicts, song and dance, and, obviously, love. Events revolve around the title wedding, which will be celebrated dangerously close to the monsoon season, and feature the not so blushing bride, who still has a thing for a married man (this is MODERN India, you know), the arranged husband, both their very extensive families, as well as the touching story between the guy who does wedding decorations and catering for a living without ever getting married himself, and one of the servant girls of the house.   Things start to complicate themselves as the rains begin and the bride elopes to have a late night tryst with her lover, where they get into a spot of trouble with the police. Also, the family members living in India clash with those living in more relaxed environments (such as Australia and the States) over the mandates of tradition, while the father of the bride despairs of the slowness with which the work of the wedding-planner and his associates progresses. As difficult as things may seem, though, everything turns out well. Mira Nair handles her large cast with affection and insight, and is not afraid of touching a very delicate and taboo-fraught issue on the way with just the right measure of drama. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll realise that Bollywood shows you life as it should be a celebration, even when it's raining.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful, vibrant film","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I sat in the theater, I laughed, cried and tapped my foot to the music. I absolutely loved it!  The music is amazing, the cast top-notch, and the beauty of it was unbelievable.  I give the director a 10 for her unique way of showing life in India.  The colors were vibrant and wonderful.  After seeing this movie twice, I definitely recommend it to anyone.  All I can say now is bravo! "},{"Title":"Simply Excellent","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding is a perfectly entertaining and informative movie which is a must see for all the Indians and for all those people who are even slightly interested in the Indian culture.This movie depicts an almost perfect picture of settled marriages and life in general of higher middle class families in the Indian sub-continent. It entertains the viewers by demonstrating the different incidents-- both sweet and sad,which happen in the background during the ongoing ceremony.Also, this movie disproves the common fear that is prevalent in the Western culture regarding the concept of settled marriages. Although it is true that sometimes settled marriages are forced and can cause trouble for the couple, but this movie shows that settled marriages are not done forcibly all the time, but in fact, increasingly nowadays, this is a system where parents select the guy/girl at the same time giving them a leeway to make their own choice.Overall, this movie is a mix of romance, drama, little bit of tragedy and a lot of humor, and not to mention, glamour caused mainly by the famous modern-Indian dances, songs/events and by the presence of the beautiful Indian girls on their charming outfits and their interaction with the handsome Indian guys throughout.  "},{"Title":"Best movie this year!!!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put This is the best movie I've seen this year. Its full of life and color.   You leave the movie with a huge gaping smile. A tough project to take on but Nair does an absolutely wonderful job. "}{"Title":"not too familiar with foreign films but plan to change that.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i had the EXTREME pleasure to have free passes to see the movie, monsoon wedding. i probably could count the number of foreign films i have seen on one hand, but if this movie is any representation of what I've been missing, I'm gonna start working on my other hand and BOTH feet -). this movie out of India was unbelievably entertaining. it involves what goes on in the planning of a wedding. it is was so interesting to see what goes on in another country in this tradition. there are many sub plots involved in this wedding. the father of the bride having a difficult time monetarily putting this together yet trying his best to do what he has to do to see that his daughter's pre arranged marriage goes through to her American fiancee. there are more than monetary obstacles involved, the daughter just happens to be having an affair with a married man and is having trouble letting go. there is also a wonderful love story blooming (pun intended since marigolds play a major role in the movie) between the wedding planner and one of the house keepers. there are many characters we see in this movie and many are given good story lines. there is a young son with a very adult identity crisis he is dealing with, and a niece with a hidden family secret which could destroy the family unit. there are some wonderful scenes showing the planning of the wedding, such as shopping through the fabric stores for garments for the wedding party. then we are taken through some very traditional rites of passage for the bride to be. some filled with music, dancing and laughter, some very tender sentiments. this movie will make you laugh (some parts of dubbed, but pay attention to translations), cry, tug at your heart and will keep your attention throughout the entire movie. You WILL NOT be bored. this is one of the best movies I have ever seen. This will not be a major release so you may have to search around to find out where it is playing ..... IT IS WORTH THE SEARCH to see a family other than one's we are used to seeing in most movies. the background music is quite interesting, you will hear traditional east Indian music and singing, and all of a sudden a mix of east Indian and disco for some of the wedding scenes. Costumes are so beautiful and very colorful. out of 4 stars, I will give it the full 4 PLUS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"What a funny/sad/realistic story","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a Non Resident Indian living in England and one who visits India (Delhi)regularly this was so close to home it was spooky.....Characters such as the Uncle and Aunties were people I could relate to.Congratulations to Mira and Sabrina for making such a good earthly film for the people of England and America to watch and see exactly how the Indians (or the Punjabi's) behave back home, not so very different to the middle class people anywhere else in the world.It is these kind of films, which portray Bollywood as not just dancing and fighting scenario's but about real people and showcasing to the world the talents that lie within India.It is also these kind of films which will bring people from other cultures closer together, laughing together. "},{"Title":"not a spoiler.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding is the first truly North Indian movie as I call it and its remarkable also because Mira Nair herself is not a north Indian. She has captured Delhi's spirit, Delhi's jargon, Delhi's hindi, culture...almost everything. Another reason I liked it so much is that it's one of those movies where a lot of action happens in the background. On the face of it the movie is only a sequence of rituals and events leading to an arranged marriage in a typical north indian (punjabi) family. Yet there are so many contemporary issues that are interwoven into the thread of the main story without being too conspicuous. Samples The debate on censorship in the Indian movies. Or the Punjabi Vs Bengali arguments. Or Men Vs Women regarding foreplay. Or the Indian affluent families sending their kids over to Australia these days for schooling. And a lot others. And the best thing about these is, that these do not disrupt the normal story telling at any point of time. A lay viewer can very easily miss these and carry on with the normal story, which is a treat in itself. One problem that such a presentation has, is that it pre supposes the viewer's familiarity with all these issues. That's why I think that non-Indians probably wouldn't have the necessary background and hence would not appreciate the subtleness. To repeat what I've already said, Its a very contemporary movie and a must see for the Indians. "},{"Title":"The Wedding of the Year!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take a kaleidoscope of the brightest pure colours, add the most amazing over the top characters, sprinkle liberally with tears and laughter and you have the recipe for this film which is a delightful feast for all the senses. There is so much happening all the time that you become fearful that something might be missed, trying to see into every corner of every scene which is almost impossible! Well worth the price of a ticket and might even warrant a second viewing, this film deserves a much wider distribution than it will receive. Definitely 10/10.    "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair's Monsoon Wedding is about a big upper-middle-class punjabi family who unite for a wedding. The movie is beautifully packaged for a foreign audience... a fact which is well evident in its winning the Golden Lion at Venice earlier this year. On home ground though, the movie almost falls flat on its face.For those living in India, specially the north, the opulence, the ostentatiousness, the ironical paradoxes and most of all, the boisterous happiness of punjabi culture are nothing new. Its something we live amongst, something we've come to take for granted. This is nothing that'll enchant an Indian audience. So remove the captivating charm of the above, and whats left is a slide-show of tens of ultra familiar characters and their even more familiar relationships.Sabrina Dhawan's script makes no attempts to go deep into the minds of the characters....though it would make the movie an amazing social documentary for the indian viewer, the international audience would find it too complex a drama. It is full of dry humour and ironical moments. The dialogue is well written, with nobody  speaking even a single line out of character.The actors have performed well. My pick among the hordes of actors has to be Vijay Riyaz as PK Dubey. Though she appears to be on the verge of being typecast, Shefali Shetty comes a close second with a strong dramatic role. Khulbhushan Kharbanda, Rajat Kapoor, Lilette Dubey, Neha Dubey and co. give in satisfactory performances with Naseeruddin Shah displaying his mastery of the art in the last few minutes. Vasundhara Das goes through the film with the same i'm-confused-but-what-dyou-think-you-are expression on her face.The musical score, both original and non-original, is brilliant. Sukhwinder Singh's amazing bhangra composition translates to music the upbeat, high-voltage, jolly mood of the marriage. Songs from old Hindi movies are used very well to accentuate the emotion prevalent. The background music does a good anough job of making the atmosphere palpable.Declan Quinn's camera takes you from your viewer's seat into the life of the movie...a feat not many cinematographers can boast of. The hand-held camera floats from one character's life to another's, giving a realistic marriage-video feel.Despite quality work the cast and crew, not to forget Mira Nair's competent direction skills, what lets down the native viewer is a script exclusively packaged for a foreign audience.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie Worth Owning!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've purchased two copies of this movie. It will touch your heart and stir your soul. This movie will introduce a beautiful, complicated, and complex culture. The filming and directing is superb. Words cannot fully describe this beautiful movie as it touches on so many aspects of humanity without being offensive. The movie leads the viewer on a journey through India's character, class, and culture. This movie educates as well as it entertains. I would recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in customs and traditions of cultures other than one's own. This movie addresses marriage, family, falling in love and the hurts and joys which make it all worth while. "},{"Title":"starts off slow but builds to a wonderful conclusion","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you watch this film, do not be put off by the relative slow pace in the first portion of the movie. All this is necessary to help create the characters as they are slowly introduced. However, through the course of the movie, they are imbued with amazing depth and real-life problems and triumphs. It is amazing to see this unfold and by the film's conclusion, I was a great fan of this film. If I were to try to describe it, I would agree with my daughter who saw it as a movie much like My Big Fat Greek Wedding, but with some much more serious aspects. And it is true, because through the course of the film you come to really care about the people and it can't help but touch your heart.FYI--due to some language and adult themes, this movie would not be appropriate for young children, though should be fine for teens. My own 15 year-old daughter watched it with me and enjoyed it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Two Worlds not so far apart","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to watch Monsoon Wedding and relate it to a text for an English class at University. That assignment turned out to be one of the most fun I've ever had to complete. This is only because of the movie choice. Monsoon Wedding caused me to feel such a broad spectrum of emotions... happiness, sadness, anger, sympathy... the list goes on. Through this movie you get to observe a middle class Indian family. One (Westerner) would assume that the typical Indian family would be quite different from theirs because of all the talk of arranged marriages and other traditions that are seen throughout India. This is not the case. The family in Monsoon Wedding is very much like a typical Western (namely American) family. They laugh together, they argue, they cry together and as a viewer you get to be a part of it all. The bride-to-be has been having an affair with a married man that she works with, and is tormented on whether or not to break it off as well as whether or not to tell her arranged groom-to-be. However, as similar as the family is to a Western family, there are all the brightly coloured garments and the sparkling jewelry that is so common in India. Traditional Indian dancing & song are present as well. In conclusion, Monsoon Wedding is definitely worth your time. At first the family appears to be extremely different from your own, but then as the movie progresses you realize that they are in fact very similar. They are kinda crazy, but at the end of the day... you have to love them. "},{"Title":"The Real India ..","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in present day Delhi, this comedy-drama focuses on the Punjabi Verma family, who are about to celebrate their daughter's marriage. With days to go, admist the chaotic final preparations, and arrival of the extended family, secrets of the various members of the familt threaten to derail the proceedings.Like in Salaam Bombay and Missisipi Masala, Nair continues her directoral passion for tackling difficult issues.  I consider this her best work because in Monsoon Wedding she is able to tackle these issues within the framework of an overall feel-good movie.  Her characters tackle their problems openly and honestly resulting in a fresh believable social drama. The family serves as a micro vehicle for India - Like the country, the family is in a stage of transition -Great work of art and a very well executed depiction of chaotic diverse modern India. "},{"Title":"FAVORITE OF ALL","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the greatest movie I have ever seen. I hate to be typical, but I laughed and I cried. I felt such a connection with that family. It was so wonderful. I love the actors... especially some of the male young actors. It was so funny. I love the Idiot saying all through out the movie. I don't know what else to write. GO SEE THIS WORK OF ART!!! "}{"Title":"Beautiful but shallow","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding (2001) is a vibrant, colorful film that focuses on the wedding of two Americanized young Indians, and the conflicts created as the two cultures try to inhabit the same space.  The movie also shows some of the economic disparity between the Americanized Indians and the more traditional Indians.  Unfortunately this disparity is secondary to the wedding, as highlighting it would make a far more interesting film. However briefly, the movie reveals that although the more Western families may have more money and opportunity, that wealth and opportunity are not distributed to the more traditional Indians. This disparity is exposed through the interactions of main family of the film, the Verma family, and P.K. Dubey, an ambitious businessman. Dubey's job is to help arrange some of the matters for the wedding.  He and his workers are usually shown laboring in and around the Verma household, an immense estate complete with a large lawn, driveway, and outdoor vestibule/gathering area.  Dubey, though he claims to be an important, rich man in the community, taking the moniker `King Dubey,' even going so far as to play the stock market, lives in a dilapidated two or three room apartment that he shares with his mother.  The Vermas have a large, modern bathroom. When Dubey wants to bath at home, he goes into a fetid little water closet and dumps a bucket of water onto his head.  The Vermas have several very new cars.  When Dubey is going to his apartment, he takes a rickshaw.  True, a rickshaw is better than the people around him who have to walk, but not even the nicest rickshaw even approaches the status symbol that is a new, imported SUV. These others also give a brief glimpse into the relative poverty surrounding the Verma family.  As Dubey pensively endures his rickshaw ride, the rest of the city is shown.  The residents all wear more traditional Indian clothing, except for Dubey, who wears sweaty, worn out, drab Western clothes.    The Verma men are immaculately attired in fine suits and the women all have violently bright dresses.  The city is small, dingy, colorless and oppressive, packing the people in like sardines.  The backyard of the Verma residence resembles a small country by comparison.  Even the other people who own vehicles are not necessarily wealthy.  As the young engaged couple drink at a grimy little dinner of some sort, two men on motorcycles pull up.  That is to say, two older men on a single, small, old motorcycle pull up.  These two men must endure sharing a tiny motorbike simply to get to a dull, puny diner, while the Verma newlyweds drive off in their shiny import compact car. Monsoon Wedding is supposedly about the wedding of two young people.  It is also a showcase for ridiculously ostentatious wealth some Westernized Indians seem to benefit from.  It is a pity the wedding was emphasized, as weddings are something most people at least endure, if not enjoy.  But only the Verma family (and their friends/relatives) are portrayed as having any sort of money.  The movie would have been far more powerful if the director, Mira Nair, had stressed the `bourgeoisie pig' aspect of the Verma family.  "},{"Title":"Overrated, laborious.","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Families meet in Delhi for an arranged marriage between Aditi Verma (daughter of Lalit and Pimmi Verma) and Hemant Rai.PK Dubey is the lower class, foul-mouthed, wedding arranger who is interested in the maid, Alice. Lalit is having money trouble; this translates to slow payments to PK.Ria Verma is the unmarried cousin of Aditi, who was abused by Tej Puri when she was younger.Aditi decides to visit her old flame one last time. That does not work out well, and reminds one of the phrase, 'get a room.' The police were quite amused. Aditi tells Hemant about this. Oh, what a mistake. He tells her that they will just fit in Houston, Texas, where he currently works. He is not amused. He decides to go through with it, and I did not see any particular believable justification for that change of heart.At that point in the movie, I was ready to quit. Slow, boring, not engaging, no sympathetic characters, except perhaps Lalit and PK. Then it gets worse; the child molestation issue was not handled well.Happy ending, I guess. Things turned out well for PK.-----Scores------Cinematography 7/10 Variable.Sound 8/10 Good most of the time.Acting 6/10 Cheers to Naseerruddin Shah (Lalit), Tillotama Shome (Alice), Vijay Raaz (PK). Thumbs down otherwise, particularly for the actors who played the bride and groom.Screenplay 6/10 Neither engaging nor believable. The story is rather good, so I would blame the direction, plus poor choices for many of the acting roles. "},{"Title":"nothing new for a local","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Apart from a colorful marriage(which every marriage in Indo Pak subcontinent is..and may be more than that).The movie doesn't hold anything else.If you want to see good Indian movie then watch Lagaan or Swades.I guess no one in the West has seen wedding movie like Hum Apkay hein Kon who are howling for this movie.Very Good Soundtrack.The additional stories(good ones and thats why i think they should have been given more time) are added and scrapped out just to fill out the time.For example the maid wearing jewelery of the bride and mistaken for stealing it.Now in normal scenario those servants would have told the Bride's Father and the poor maid would have been kicked out.The feeling of Monsoon was the thing i liked a lot .For those who haven't seen Indian marriages,it will be something extraordinary(like My Big Fat Greek Wedding was for me) and not much for those who attend these marriages all the year. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Monsoon Wedding is a comedy-drama tackles the chaos that results when a large Indian family, whose members are scattered around the globe, assembles in contemporary New Delhi for an old-fashioned marriage ceremony. However, things get tense among the family members when hidden agendas, secrets, and fears threaten to disrupt the wedding. Director Mira Nair, best known for Mississippi Masala, a cross-cultural love story with Denzel Washington, as well as the Oscar-nominated Salaam Bombay!, aims for pure joy and achieves it.For much better review you must go to http//www.comingsoon.net/news/dvdreviewsnews.php?id=3448 "},{"Title":"Contemporary vs. Traditional Ways","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Monsoon Wedding Representative of a Changing Society Contemporary views have struggled in the battle with traditional ways in New Delhi, India.  This concept most aptly seen in one of India's largest markets, cinema, has dramatically impacted society.  Monsoon Wedding, a highly acclaimed film by Mira Nair is the epitome of a changing culture in India. The movie summarizes a Punjabi family whom is brought together for an arranged marriage.  The foremost problem with the family gathering is the difference in opinions between the parents and the generation that ensue them. This film is not only representative of India and its struggle between the dot-com era and more traditional views but of an entire genre of movies that have adapted to benefit in changing times.  Over the past few years if a festival were not handing out awards for a patriotic and propaganda filled war film then it was beseeched with praise from a distraught and broken down family struggling to make ends meet with a bizarre twist of an ending.Case-and-point 8 Mile, a film which faired very well at last weeks Academy Awards portrayed the epitome a broken family.  To think that just 30-40 years ago shows such as `The Brady Bunch' and `The Partridge Family' dominated the airwaves.  Divorce and domestic violence claiming a much greater abundance in today's society have become capitalized and marketed much like a late night infomercial, pounded over-and-over into the brain of society.  The lifestyle in these films are still not acceptable but rather tolerated with the conclusive idea that something bright might be attainable at the end of the tunnel.  Betrayal, abuse, & adultery have become fixations on representing what occurs in a typical family.  This saddens the hearts of few but merely is entertainment for the masses that gather around the television or voyage out for a Saturday matinee. Cinema that represent this negative aspect in society are not faulty nor the causation of what in actuality it does portray, but rather a strategic marketing tool for success in the film industry.  Reluctance does not falter at the idea that cinema is trying to display a reality found in society but rather the need for audiences to view this over-dramatic representation of their own lives.  Sickeningly, I'll be first in line with a bag of popcorn in my hand.  "},{"Title":"Mawkishly, Disgustingly Trivial","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Renting this video, I broke a hard and fast rule  never see a movie that's described as `heartwarming,' or which has `Marriage' or `Wedding' as part of the title.  I had recently seen My Big Fat Greek Wedding, which was such a big exception to the rule I thought I'd give this one a shot, especially since Ebert and Roeper had given it two big thumbs up.  But this flick reaffirmed the correctness of my rule.  There are many things about this film that make it contrived, mawkish, saccharine and silly, but one thing in particular stands out as particularly egregious  right in the middle of the frenzied wedding preparations, while everyone is bubbly with joy, love and forgiveness &#150; just bursting to sing and dance and eat marigolds at the drop of a hat &#150; the plot meanders, very awkwardly, into the issue of childhood sexual abuse.  The entire film is disjointed, with abrupt transitions that feel premature.  But this is totally out of place.   As best I can tell, the reason for these disgustingly shallow scenes is to change the viewer's attitude towards the father of the bride, who, until this point, has been rude, controlling, and obnoxious.  But then he steps in to protect the child victim, driving away his own relatives in the process.  So now, our sympathies are supposed to change, because now he's a hero  a man of honor and duty, we understand that the conflicting obligations to tradition and family have been tormenting him.  The film uses this as a theatrical tableau with which to highlight his loyal, moral character.  The victims of abuse are used as a foil to draw us into the father's conflicted world of obligations.  Meanwhile, the injured parties, who invariably grow up to be egregious abusers themselves if left untreated, are just props.  Their stories are discarded like wrapping paper.  So the film succeeds in defending the perpetrator mentality, downplaying the victim's pain and anguish for the sake of a giddy, fatuous, offensive emotional ejaculation, which occurs at the end of the movie &#150; joy joy joy, happy happy happy.  It's one of the most irresponsible things I've ever seen.  Don't be taken in by the hype  avoid this movie like the plague.  "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great deal of the movie had the feel of a family getting together for a wedding, with someone just filming the mundane goings on around the family house.  Of course, there was a lot going on!  But a great deal of wasn't particularly dramatic, but rather ordinary conflicts. The wedding is hectic, the guests are arriving... the plans have to be finalized... things cost more than expected... A few minor squables break out that are resolved quickly.I found the sideline story of the infatuation of the event planner, Dubey, with the kitchen helper, Alice, to be the most interesting part of the movie.  Dubey got to show several sides of his personality, and when you noticed the fast talking event planner showing an interest in Alice you see that while he wasn't at a loss for words in his business dealings, that the words were a struggle around the attractive Alice.All in all the story seemed pretty routine.  It was satisfying, but not particularly dramatic, as things went pretty much according to plan.  This movie was kind of an Indian version of Father of the Bride, with a little less comedy, and more drama. "},{"Title":"Modern- but still Indian","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In no way is this film a traditional Indian movie.  This is a good thing for me cause I'm not to big on those Bollywood rain-dancing, song-singing, running-through-the-forest, type flicks.This movie had none of that traditional, formulatic, Indian movie stuff. It's done in a western style with chracters that could actually exist in real life.WHAT I LIKEDIt touched issues that are rarely explored in Bollywood films, such as homosexuality, and child abuse.I actually found the one sub-plot with the servents falling in love to be quite more interesting than the main story of the bride and groom to be.There are also alot of fit females in this movie, including alot of t&a shaking. And the music was great...especially that drum and bass lic.WHAT SUCKEDNow, this movie isn't all good.  I thought there was a bit too much sub-plots and sub-chracters going on to keep track of, and I also found that the bride and groom fell in love wayyyy too fast (probably a result of their courting time being eaten up by the subs).OVERALLIt was a refreshing change from the typical-predictable-garbage that Bollywood spits out, and India chews up.  And the girls were great (especially Alice).I want to see more flicks like this- Modern, but still Indian.7/10 "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For all its hype, it was disappointing. Frequently, it seems that the camera is following a real wedding. It may sound like a good approach theoretically, but practically while watching the movie, it is difficult to follow the dialogue when there are multiple people speaking at the same time.All the romantic subplots were quite predictable, The subplot with the event planner's romance was actually more interesting than the main plot.The director puts in a few scenes of Delhi intermittently which serves no purpose. It is not Salaam Delhi.There were way too many characters for you to get to know anyone. Only Naseer's character is central and even his role will be nowhere close to his superior performances in movies like Masoom and Izaazat.  "},{"Title":"An unfamiliar India","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really entertained and touched by this film. The performances are great, and the music is foot-tapping terrific. But that was the second time I saw it.The first time I saw this film I was so shocked by its depiction of an Indian family that I could not really enjoy it. This movie showed a high percentage of women drinking and Pimmi smoking. Both drinking and smoking are socially taboo in India. Ria uses several English expletives, which didn't seem right. The English to Hindi/Punjabi ratio seemed to be on the higher side. Finally, how much dysfunction can a single family have? - a gay son, a cheating daughter, an abused niece, an abusive uncle, a loveless couple, a father in debt etc.The only realistic character is Aditi, unfortunately we never get to understand where she comes from.But what do I know about wealthy Punjabi families? So I will just sit back and enjoy the film. "}{"Title":"not bad, not great","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It looks pretty and has some magical moments, but in the end feels like a really well done sitcom.  Except for one plot line which is way too dark and unnecessary for the movie, it's light fluff with a different flavor.  Nothing to write home about. "},{"Title":"Best Indian Film, Great film, full ending","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen several Indian films, all of which I have considered bad.  So I was a bit weary to see this one, and saw it only with a strong recommendation. And I was glad I did. This film was fantastic.  It had wit, humor, tenderness, music, though nothing like the traditional Indian musical.The film starts open, you are unsure if there really will be drama or suspense, but you continue to watch, amazed by the scenery.  But there is a turning point in the film, where the film suddenly becomes so dramatic and exciting, and all of the openness comes together to a very full ending.So, go see it.  It will make you want to go to India.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent blending of two movie cultures","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair has pulled off an almost impossible feat--she hascombined a US independent-style film with a Bollywood  spectacular.  I have no way of knowing whether Ms. Nair's portrayal of upper-class Indian life is realistic.  Be that as it may, Monsoon Wedding has an excellent cast, a gripping plot, a stunning star, and the advantage of Bollywood production numbers neatly spliced into an intellectually satisfying film.  If you are interested in India and/or India cinema, this movie is definitely worth seeing.  (There were some  aspects of the film that I found confusing.  No problem-- Monsoon Wedding is worth seeing twice!)    "},{"Title":"What's with the subtitles?","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't understand one thing why most people in the movie speak half broken English and half Hindu? I do understand that they are under the heavy influence of anything very much associated with the Western culture (beepers, cell phones and Cosmopolitan magazines) but I didn't get it. Can someone explain this one to me? This movie was definitely predictable, with not one interesting use of the cinematic medium. There isn't even any sympathy with the subject matter, a plot filled with sappy old references to arranged marriage (oh, how can I marry you if I don't love you? Oh, no..), balmed by bland shots of pretty costumes and flowers. What did I learn at the end of the movie? I probably would say that it was the Americanization of the Hindu families that stuck out the most. The constant indirect references to our culture. For the sake of the Hindus, that cannot possibly be a good thing. It's like wanting McDonalds to go completely global-which probably isn't already far from the truth. However, it is still sad to see that. I wanted to see some authenticity to the Hindu people and not so much emphasis on how they really are just like us. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Best portrayal of India ever.....","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have heard great reviews from friends before I went to see monsoon wedding and I was thrilled to see it. At last, a movie has been able to capture the true essence of Indian culture with a universal appeal. Being from New Delhi myself (where the movie is staged), I can see that monsoon wedding portrayed the Delhi culture in its fullest form. That includes not only picturisation but also dialogues and the look of characters. It gives one the feeling of being in a north indian marriage for real which is truly amazing. Along with that, there are some great performances. Naseeruddin Shah shows why he is one of the best actors India has ever produced. Lillete Dubey, Vasundhara Das and Shefali Chaya also have commendable performances. The surprise package however, is Vijay Raj in the role of P.K.Dubey. He does a terrific job as the tent waalah and his presence truly lights up the screen.Mira Nair does a good directing job. After watching this movie I truly wonder whether this would have had a better chance at the Oscars than Lagaan. But that debate's for another place or time.So, in conclusion, if you want to see the true picture of an upper middle class north Indian Punjabi culture, or if you like marriages or would just like to have a happy and fun filled couple of hours just go and watch monsoon wedding. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Shining bright","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This joyous, character-rich, family-based romance and melodrama also has comic aspects. It might remind you of Robert Altman but with better singing and dancing. It's laced with cultural, social and psychological edges -- including some dark ones. Overall, a well-made pleasure. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just came back from seeing this wonderful film directed by Mira Nair (Salaam Bombay) .This is a film from India about an upper class family planning for their daughter's wedding in New Delhi.  The film is a heart touching, warm, humorous, joyful, colorful, hurting, view of a young woman's desire to handle an arranged marriage.  There are other subplots as well involving all the players mostly involving  New world traditions clashing with old world values in this amazing film which is tinged with brilliant music, and eye popping cinematography wrapped in large vibrant colours.Nair's direction uses a handheld camera most of the time which gives the film a realistic documentary like feel, you almost think you are watching a real family and not actors.  And speaking of the actors they all look stunning.  They weave through this story as people you care about immensly will never forget, including a shifty wedding planner who provides most of the comic relief in the film and ends up finding his own special gift in life..Brilliant cinematography, wonderful dialogue, and characters you won't forget. I won't forget this film for years to come.Rating 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Refreshing and authentic","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have attended Punjabi weddings in Delhi, and I can vouch for the authenticity of Monsoon Wedding. This is a very interesting movie many of my Indian friends were confused because they were expecting usual Indian art-house fare.  Many of my American friends liked it, but they didn't really get many of the humor and situations (nor did many film critics). For example, it's incongruous that Dubey the contractor would even try to put up a white tent, and then try to cover it up as a modern style, very popular. The color wasn't just wrong---it's very inauspicious for a Hindu wedding to use white fabric, at least, a Punjabi Hindu wedding.  Someone of the father's  generation would simply never allow it. I think this is Mira Nair's best film yet.  I didn't really like her previous films.  Very enjoyable! "},{"Title":"Father of the Bride goes Indian","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at the Paris Theatre in NYC, a real art house mecca, and the crowd was resigned to love this flick well before the houselights darkened. You know when you're at a movie and you can hear a crowd straining to laugh, to prove that they get it? You'll hear plenty of that at Monsoon Wedding. Not that there aren't some genuinely funny moments, but while no one in attendance at Monsoon Wedding would dare admit it, my face broke into a smile once or twice during Dude, Where's My Car? as well, but no one would call that movie a joyous snapshot of adolescence, misonthropy be damned! (okay, so I sometime have a problem with the art house crowd.) Anyway, this is the Indian version of Father of the Bride, plain and simple, with soap opera subplots thrown in, and a goofball comic relief character that would have been right at home in a Farelly brothers freakfest. This movie is passable entertainment that is being exhalted to brilliant because it has a foreign pedigree. If you disagree, take every subplot and apply it to an American family, and you'll see just how unspectacular this flick is (and sometimes kind of reprehensible, 'cause all they do to the pedophile is kick him out of the wedding party). So in closing, rent Dude, Where's My Car. "},{"Title":"Westernized India?","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies are said to be an enormous industry in India. Probably it is much superior to Hollywood in quantity and the Indians love to watch their films.Monsoon Wedding is well worth seeing. It is about an arranged wedding, but it's not arranged it that tyrannical way you learn about in some countries. This is not an uncomplicated thing however, not among the upper middle class, which we meet here. The Indian family is not an uncomplicated institution, and especially not in this film, where we meet a pedofile and the drama concerning the loyalty towards him.This movie is dark (and) funny, touching and full of colours. One wanders however if this is the version that has been showed in India or if this is the Western-cut? We can understand this film without difficulty, although it is dealing with a quite different culture. Would we understand the version showed in India that easy?      "}{"Title":"Do you want to know the meaning of life?  See the movie!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie could not have been any more predictable. But what was striking about it was that you did not need a surprise ending, a twist or whatever to keep watching it with smile on your face and excitement rushing in your veins.  UNIQUE!  FANTASTIQUE! "},{"Title":"Great fun without being great cinema","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My only knowledge of this film before seeing it was that it had won a Golden Lion at Venice.  And for that, I was slightly surprised at what the film offered.It was great fun, make no mistake.  In a packed house on a bargain-priced night, the laughs were many and they were shared.But the film rarely seemed to rise above the level of simple soap opera.  The resolution of the most dramatic issue in the film seemed convenient and almost trite.  I would echo other comments above that note there is little here by the way of plot.But leaving that aside, it's colourful, it's warm, it's funny and you could do a lot worse.  The 'crazy credit' right at the end was just the best finale to an, on the whole, enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"interesting but ....","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  monsoon wedding was a colourful movie interestingly scripted but the biggest let down for me was because of the hype created, at least here in india what with the venice film festival award and the golden globe nomination.the movie was widely acclaimed as being colourful, warm and funny. though colourful, the movie was one of the saddest, most melancholy filled movies ive ever seen, right through the movie there's an undertone of pathos and (**** possible minor spoilers ahead ****) though everything is hunky dory at the end, what with traumatised rhea (brilliantly played by shefali shetty) also probably meeting her man.the movie shows a lot of the pomp and gaiety surrounding indian marriages, it also paints a poignant picture of india caught in the middle. the standout performances aside, the camera work by declan quinn is simply stunning, the audience almost made to feel a part of the household ratehr than  a stranger watching through a peephole.again, mira nair shows her needless obsession with eroticism, the movie is highly sexually charged, with sexual tension always looming in the background. some of the scenes are way too formulaic and convenient for reality. these blemishes mar what would otherwise have been a masterpiece. a brave attempt nevertheless.a melancholic 8!  "},{"Title":"Flawed but excellent","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like an Altman film or the opening scene in Godfather, Mira Nair drops us right into the middle of the Verma clan with barely an introduction. Many things are going on and Nair loves to play the matchmaker, giving every character a love story. The film is flawed because the major story line barely registers and sometimes the acting seems forced and over the top(Aditi, PK Dubey). What comes through is a feeling of joy and bliss and heartache. The film looks great(the cinematographer deserves major praise) and the music is excellent throughout. Naseeruddin Shah(Lalit Verma) is excellent. From a social standpoint, Nair shows the dichotomy of India. The haves and the have nots. This film is in many ways an accurate portrayal of upper middle class India. It helps that the characters speak a wonderful mix of English, Hindi and Punjabi. You see a foreign film without always having to look down at the subtitles. Another merit for this film was that it was not insulting to Indian culture like so many recent films(the guru, American desi). "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is well-done and beautifully shot.  It is a great romantic film, yet full of wit and difficult situations.  I saw it once and knew I had to buy it! The music is great, also.  I think any fan of great film will appreciate this one. "},{"Title":"almost unwatchable","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't mean to suggest that Monsoon is not a good film. It is. Perhaps it could have been a great film, but it is held back by cinematography of such phenomenally bad proportions that it becomes a severe distraction. I don't know why it is so bad. Perhaps they were going for some type of homemade wedding video type style. Whatever the case, it was a horrible decision. The camera is almost always hand held, canted, off focus, and too tight. There are some focus pulls that are laughable. The best thing you can say about the camera department is that they kept hair out of the gate. It's too bad for the film, because the story and the acting are top notch. "},{"Title":"Indian family meeting","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting and enjoyable for the little insight it gives into Indian culture despite a non-original story. From the first scene one can guess that there is going to be 'problems' or at least a small scandal with the bride and one of the guest, that a love story will start with another, and that one will become a responsible man. So nothing really special, nothing really new, but still enjoyable to watch even if there are some pathetic moments of indecision.This movie is like if India was discovering itself. It is nice for a country to realise - after everybody else did - that Indians are not perfect and are human like us. That despite the laziness of the men and their machismo they are weak and highly dependent on women. It is unusual to watch these proud pathetic men doing miserable schemes to themselves and their relatives.Women on the contrary appear strong and knows what they want. They are more in touch with the reality and the changing of their world. But still they are confined to house keeping tasks.A nice insight into 21st century India trying to evolve from its 17th century social constraints despite earning $ the hard way in the USA and Australia.  "},{"Title":"Lovely to look at, but one major plot hole","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So she's gone off with her lover for one last tryst, then, in a panic, drives off in his car.And nothing happens? The police don't follow her home? The lover doesn't come to get his car back? The family never finds out? Lovely film, but that one plot point made me wonder more than a little.I was also thrown a bit by the multitude of characters at the very start so many plots, so few of them really well developed. The son (I gather by a previous marriage?) that the father always calls idiot. The lightly discussed child abuse by the scion of the wealthy side of the family. The father's having to turn to his golfing buddies for cash to pay for this extravaganza. Couple that with the characters themselves never really all that well defined, and it's mass confusion for the first hour. Finally it all gets sorted out, and we can move on to the wedding, but it still felt to sketchy the overly understanding groom, the final-frame happily ever after, the wedding organizer's quickie wedding as well... it just felt thrown together. "},{"Title":"Not your average Bollywood flick!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was stunned by this movie, it's one of the first different films from Indian cinema that I have ever seen. The story is centered around a young Indian woman (whom by the way, looks so realistic that she makes you question the reality of ever other Bollywood fluff you might have seen before this one) who is about to get married. The problem is, she has been having an affair with a married man, whom she loves. Her parents want her to marry the man of their choice, meaning that her marriage is being arranged. A few days before the wedding, she meets her lover for one last time and they are caught having sex in his car by the police. In fear of the consequences, the bride-to-be flees the scenes, abandoning her lover in the monsoon rain and driving off in his car. The next day, she comes face to face with the man she is to marry and his sincerity and freshness floors her to the point that she cannot see herself going on to marry him without letting him in on her past. Meanwhile, her family house begins to fill up with wedding guests, and some of them waste no time in hooking up with each other (despite being related or what not), while others steer clear of the looming dramas at every corner. The bride's cousin has a secret that is keeping her away from her uncle, yet she finds it hard to shut her eyes when she notices that the uncle has taken interest in her younger sister. This is another sub-plot within the film, that pans out through the end of it. There is also the sub-plot of the wedding decorator, a man who is so vulgar and so uncouth that he'll make you wonder why the family hired him in the first place. Anyhow, he comes to the house and falls in love with one of the maids within the home, their story is also told through to the end of the film. Something that bothered me though, was the scene in which the mother of the bride comes into her bedroom and finds her sleeping husband calling out the maid's name. That scene was never resolved but that just adds to the beauty of the film because it's just showing you how life truly is. It's not looking for resolutions or trying to sugarcoat anything, it's just providing you with a window into the lives of ordinary people living everyday life in India. There was another scene, though funny, that was kind of offensive; in it, the bride to be goes to visit her lover at his office, where a woman who does voice-dubbing for Bollywood films is being interviewed on a radio/TV show and she is describing her next project to the viewers and listeners. The scene she is describing has to do with ad-libbing the sounds a woman would make during sex. It was just weird. Nevertheless, this film was stellar, it's an absolute must see for everyone and anyone seeking a break from pretentious, fake and delusional Bollywood fluff! "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film since so many other serious filmgoers were raving about the quality of the film.  I found the story to be lacking.  There are far too many characters in this film and little depth dedicated to the development of each individual.  There is an element of insincerity in the film.  Is this an exploration of modern day India, colliding with modern day manners?  or is this just a happy confection dedicated to the idea that all's well that ends well as long as we can celebrate with a party?The bride to be is in love with a married television producer who will never leave his wife.  When she breaks up with him, she decides that she needs to come clean with her husband to be before they can honestly begin their life together.  How many men would go for this?  She was obviously emotionally entangled with this other man yet will go ahead with this new marriage because it will take her away from India and give her a fresh start.I was looking for a film that spoke authentically about emotions and love.  This wasn't the one.The search continues. "}{"Title":"Bogus and dishonest -- hardly an 'Indian wedding'","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a perfect example of what happens when the director is totally confused about what the core of a story really is.Nair probably just glossed over the script sent her way by DHawan. That she has neatly inserted contrived ideas and dead-end sub-plots to keep the action going is of no use. It was unusual how the bride-to-be acted on her impulses the way she did esp. on her wedding night. Is that what nubile young girls in Indian metros do nowadays? Smart observation by Nair, eh? Totally incredulous by far. The stereotypical depiction of a modern Delhi-based Punjabi family was insincere and lacked depth. Too many Punjabi families you know are far from the one shown here.Quite frankly, a wedding ceremony is the least likely of all places to explore these fits of fancy. A double implementation of Murphy's law by itself would have sufficed to create a subtle plot point or two. There is no such thing however, the events culminate near-perfectly while the phony characters muck around endlessly as instructed by Nair.Instead of exploring Vijay Raaz (Dubey) character fully and developing that subplot, it is abruptly ended. Maybe Nair meant Monsoon weddings, breakups, romances, scandals etc. But where exactly does one find this patchwork quilt of a group of people called Verma family?? It is real easy to pick up a Hi-8 and head to Delhi to make Monsoon Divorce!The film had to sell an exotic look and feel as there was no real substantive merit to the story. If this is what 'crossover cinema' is all about, its PRETTY BAD. Nair, better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Colourful and fun but the busy ensemble approach prevents it being emotionally involving until late in the day","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In India during the monsoon period, an arranged marriage brings two different families and many different classes together in a colourful celebration of love. However with a bride and a groom who have barely met one another, a father trying to organise an event that is spiralling out of his original budget and a love triangle that threatens to disrupt the whole affair. Add to this a shifty contractor with a crush on the maid and the whole thing screams 'vibrant'!Of course at times this is all it seems to scream &#150; and that's a bit of a problem because it is hard to really be consistently engaged by this rather freewheeling affair. The various strands vary from the amusing to the interesting to the inane. The problem is that the film goes for a collection of characters and story lines all around the one wedding and not all of them work as well as one another. It was still pretty interesting and become more cohesive towards the end but I was not as drawn in and impressed as I had expected to be &#150; to be honest Die Hard was on the other channel and it was a real effort to ignore the luring calls of that great movie and stick with this.However what the film does manage to do pretty well is deliver a very vibrant film which, for the majority of its running time, gives a lively and busy impression of this part of India and is enjoyable mainly because its energy and pace. It is a little bit inconsequential for large parts and it made it difficult to stay with but the final third gets better and becomes more meaningful and involving. The film was billed as a Bollywood film but it is not really what I expected from a film placed in that band &#150; however I was actually happy that the film ran under 3 hours and wasn't heavy with the usual songs that all sound the same to me. The cast also do better than the usual Bollywood lot and deliver the best they can with the material. Standouts for me were those playing the bride, the bride's father and Raaz's PK Dubey &#150; funny and sensitive!Overall this is a Bollywood movie for those that dislike Bollywood movies. The ensemble approach produces a sense of fun and a good but prevents it getting involving until the final third when, I suppose, it does come good. Despite these problems it is still colourful and fun and worth watching once for what it is.  "},{"Title":"Monsoon Wedding","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There was a time when this was so highly recommended it used to have to have a spot in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, so I thought it had to be good, so of course I thought I'd find out, from director Mira Nair (Kama Sutra A Story of Love). Basically the story is set in an upper-class part of India, where the Delhi-based Verma family are excited and getting ready for the arranged marriage of daughter Aditi (Vasundhara Das) to Houston based Hemant Rai (Parvin Dabas). Aditi's father Lalit (Naseeruddin Shah) is having some disagreements and squabbles with slacker wedding contractor Parabatlal Kanhaiyalal 'P.K.' Dubey (Vijay Raaz) who is running way behind schedule. Niece Ria (Shefali Shetty) is thinking about going to America to take up a new profession to get away from the abuse from her uncle, and Lalit's wife Pimmi (Lillete Dubey) has taken up smoking in the bathroom. Aditi's brother Varun (Ishaan Nair) longs to be a chef and not obeying the traditions of his religion, including becoming homosexual, and one the youngest relative Ayesha (Neha Dubey) is flirting with the bride's cousin Rahul Chadha (Randeep Hooda) from Melbourne. While all the final preparations are being made, and the guests start arriving from all over India, Australia and America, Aditi is nervous since she has been having an affair with her married ex-boss Vikram Mehta (Sameer Arya). She does get to know Hemant better before they are due to get married, but she is worried she will be disloyal to him, and she does tell him the truth before the wedding, which would probably explain their faces at the end. I was really intrigued with he subplot story of contractor P.K. falling in love with family maid Alice (Tillotama Shome), and I was really happy when they got married in the end too. Also starring Kulbhushan Kharbanda as C.L. Chadha, Kamini Khanna as Shashi Chadha, Rajat Kapoor as Tej Puri and Roshan Seth as Mohan Rai. Made with the help of both Bollywood and Hollywood, it is a likable film with a great ensemble cast, wonderful costumes, brilliant use of colours, and great Indian music for dances and stuff, all in all a very watchable comedy drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film, there was more English than Hindi? It was number 74 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. Very good! "},{"Title":"Well-made but lacks social bite","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The obvious precedent for 'Monsoon Wedding' is Robert Altman's 'A Wedding'; both are sprawling, multi-character films about the wedding of two wealthy, but culturally distinct families. But in spite of a sub-plot focused on child abuse, 'Monsoon Wedding' lacks the satirical, bleak edge of its predecessor the rich, it seems to say, are just the people we ourselves would like to be. Given that the film is set in India, a society of immense inequality of wealth, I found its straightforward celebration of the lives of the affluent a little odd; and hard to care for its characters who seemed to own lives free of the constraints that not only bind most people, but which are also the stuff of real drama. The movie is lively, colourful, and musical; but I found it hard to really care. "},{"Title":"Film for western audiences","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was designed to appeal to Western audiences. It is okay, not great in my book. It is clearly not designed for Eastern people. The lead actress is rather plump and not terribly attractive. Child molestation issues come up in a supposed light hearted comedy. There is a cute running romance between the party arranger and a servant girl, Alice. We do get to see the frustrations and expense of Indian weddings. The affair between the lead actress and a married man was realistic by Delhi standards. It is a not much of a glimpse of India, but has the required crossover appeal. The director's first film, Bhaji on the Beach, is far better. It is unrealistic for the actor to have to drive so far for his favorite tea and snack area. Delhi is teeming with good snack stands. It makes no sense at all. "},{"Title":"High hopes dashed","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes of this as something a little different and a little more cerebral after the usual Christmas blockbusters.  It was different  -  it was dull.  I felt no sympathy  -  far less empathy  -  with the characters. Although I concede it may be realistic, the constant slipping between Punjabi and English was confusing  - better to have done it entirely in Punjabi or entirely in English.  The subtitles were poorly done  -  white on (quite often) a pale background is completely useless.Take away the colourful scenario and all you are left with is a dysfunctional - and not very edifying - family  nothing new there.  I left before the end because I didn't want to waste any more time on this, and my girlfriend felt the same (not just a guy-thing).  The first function of a film is to entertain, and on that test this one failed.  "},{"Title":"upper class story of a spoiled rich girl","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Entertaining, yes. And if you like all things Indian, and the taste of the exotic, enjoy. But mostly it's pretty empty. The social critique is limp. And a very upper class film, where the main and fleshed out characters are upper class spoiled rich folks. The lower/working classes are wooden and stereotypical. The wedding planner Dubey is a nastily comic figure with exaggerated facial gestures, who ends up with Alice, the similarly wooden servant girl with no character depth. It's insulting, to someone with Mira Nair's record (such a great and gritty movie as Salaam Bombay). This one made me feel yucky. The heroine is boring and a dreadful actress--this whole obsession with green eyes has gone far enough. The plot line is wooden and silly too. Lagaan and Bride & Prejudice - enough of this serving up the East to the West already. A little honesty would be appreciated. "},{"Title":"Very colorful but...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really like this. It's about a family in Delhi, India getting ready for their daughter's wedding. All the relatives gather and things go spinning out of control. It's supposed to be funny (I think) but I wasn't laughing--neither was anyone else in the theatre.For starters--the cast was huge--way too many people. I'm still not sure who was who's cousin or whatever. As a comedy this is pretty grim. It's more of a serious drama than anything else. Also the cast keeps switching back and forth between Indian (there are subtitles) and heavily accented English (no subtitles). Often they do it in the middle of conversations! It gets annoying and confusing.However it is very colorful (including the opening and closing credits), the cast is just great (there are some VERY attractive men and women in it) and it is interesting to see how another culture celebrates a wedding. But the little dramas that happen have been done before and end very predictably. More often than not, I was bored. I knew how the stories would work out and I was always right. The acting kept me watching.SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD!!!!!!! Also, I find it more than a little disturbing that they worked child molestation into the plot. It's treated seriously, but do you really want to see that in a comedy? So, I'm giving it a 6 for the color, acting, gorgeous people and some nice, assured direction by Mira Nair...but I didn't really like it. "},{"Title":"Not Monsoon Enough","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with an earlier reviewer. The script for this film seems to have been created with a cookie cutter, with the writer concocting the familiar shapes of stereotypical characters we've seen many times before.The result is film in which the actors speak their lines and then listen for their cues so they can speak again. For all the action, there is very little interaction. Bad writing undercuts the ability of the characters to generate any compelling drama.The director seems very competent, though, and I think we can expect better work when better scripts become available.  "},{"Title":"very good documentary/etnographic movie. But nothing else","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie presents the wedding traditions in upper class India. If you are interested in learning many things about the wedding in India costumes, music,traditions then you should see this movie. Otherwise the movie is very boring. One would expect that such a talented director would use a little creativity. But unfortunately the movie is just a real slice of life; no deep thoughts; nothing to stimulate your imagination. As a documentary this movie deserves many accolades. But we did not want to see a documentary, did we? "}{"Title":"Great Opportunity, Bad Results","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had a lot of potential, but raised no higher than naan bread. The writing could not have been any worse.  The direction left no chance for the viewer to know or grow empathetic for the bride.  It was difficult if not impossible to sort among the family members and friends. I think the direction of this movie was totally for the U.S. audience in hopes of bringing in viewers with the lure of exotic Indian bait. There was little exotic about this movie but for the dress and the humble house-keeper.  "},{"Title":"Mira Nair disappoints again","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although entertaining in some sense; Wedding offers nothing new and confirms that Ms. Nair still lacks in her films the following narrative flow, subtlety and basic crafts of filmmaking which differentiates a good movie from an average or a bad one. Walking out of the theater one feels good about the vibrant colors of India, it's free spirit that is omnipresent, the music (albeit not original) but cannot deny the fact that a lot of people with a handheld camera, lacking illusions about cinema verite and a sudden urge to make a film in 30 days or less can churn out better stuff than Monsoon Wedding. This fails to represent the subject matter helped by the absence of a plot (albeit good potential narrative) and presence of too many sub-plots and at the end of it all we have a cinematic mess in our hands wondering what was Ms Nair thinking? May be the sad truth is filmmaking in a lot of people's mind does not equate to good storytelling and a thoughtful representation of the subject matter in hand.Did the jurors at Venice Film Festival actually see the movie or they were happy to note that Wedding is not your everyday Bollywood production? Sadly, it is not too far from it either "},{"Title":"What is this? A Wedding?","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mira Nair has not the psychological insight to deliver us an Indian movie which shows us a wedding in the American way as Robert Altman did in Wedding, A (1978). Her characters are all superfluous. I know nothing of the way of life in India but it seems that a wedding is a serious celebration. When the fiancée is engaged with a person and has to confess that she has a relationship with a guy from television than normally there is no wedding!  Apparently Indian people want to celebrate first and think later.  A peculiar scene is when the most venerated member of the family is send away because he is kissing the very young daughter of the house. I did also not understand if in India there is something like social classes, everybody seems to make love with anyone of their first choice. Also it was not easy to understand if this family is rich or not and what is their social status. From this point of view after all a confusing movie for Westerners. "},{"Title":"very ordinary.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard a lot of good things about this movie, so I decided to watch it. however, it is quite ordinary. I don't see what the big fuss about it.Indian movies are good at songs and dances, however, this one has very few. And for the guy who worked as the wedding planner, I don't see how easily he can just fall in love with the maid who worked in the house in such a short time. That is so unreal. And this is the 21st century, why can't they find someone in different social backgrounds to fall in love with? Is India still a society with classes? And for the rest of the story, it is just so common, and predictable.  "},{"Title":"Jumping between languages hurt the film.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can enjoy a film with subtitles. I can enjoy a film even when I have to strain to understand the English spoken with foreign accents.However a film that goes from subtitles to hard to understand English in the same sentence is almost impossible for me to follow. All of a sudden the subtitles disappear and by the time I have adjusted to the heavily accented English I've missed 2 or 3 sentences.Maybe others do not have this problem. I understand that this switching between languages actually occurs in India. But for me it just killed the film. "}]