[{"Title":"They Did This Sports Movie Right","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" I love it when they actually do a sports story well. So many in the past have been so hokey it was embarrassing to watch. Not this one. It's just a genuinely nice movie, an old-fashioned type of story - and based on a real-life guy to did exactly what Dennis Quaid did in this film. He plays a high school coach who is talked into trying out, late in life athletically-speaking, to become a pitcher in professional baseball. Eventually, he reaches his goal of making it to the Major Leagues, even if it was a very brief stint.All the characters in here are nice people, the kind you root for, from Quaid to the players on his high school team, to his little boy (Angus T. Jones, now somewhat of a star on television.)Quaid is believable in playing Jim Morris because, unlike actors in the past in sports films, he knows how to throw a baseball. He looks like a pitcher, a guy who could fire it 90-plus miles per hour. And, most of this film is true, as testified by the real-life pitcher in one the documentaries on the DVD.So, if you're looking for a nice, inspirational true life sports film, you can't wrong with this one. "},{"Title":"Actually two one-hour movies, great inspirational stories.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  My favorite films are those which are based on an interesting true story, and are well made. The Rookie fits that bill, and I rate it very highly. At first glance it appears to be about getting to play baseball. In fact, it is about making your dreams come true, and the power of friendship. Baseball just happens to be the subject matter. The first one-hour movie is about a 10-member high school team in West Texas that barely manages to win one game each year. It is about their coach inspiring them to become the district champs and go to the state tournament in 1999. The second one-hour movie comes about from a deal the kids made with the coach.  If we win district, then you have to go to a tryout with a professional baseball team.  They do, so he does. And to his and everyone else's surprise, his 85-mph fastball as a 20-year-old has become a 98-mph one as a 35-year-old.  The films hints that it might have been divine intervention, a prayer to St Rita, the patron of the impossible. Might have been!!Dennis Quaid is a bit older than 35, but he does a good job and is believable as science teacher, coach, and finally a surprised big-league pitcher in Arlington, Tx stadium, where he strikes out his very first big-league batter. The real Jim played two seasons, not particularly distinguished, but that point is way secondary. The journey, and the way he made it, with support from family and his baseball kids is what this film is all about.The DVD is very nice, with a great picture and decent use of the 5.1 Dolby surround sound. Extras include footage of the real Jim, some original footage of his playing days, and his narration and re-enactment of his first trip to a big-league mound. Great stuff!  Plus a few, moderately interesting deleted scenes explained by the director. "},{"Title":"Respectable Movie Worth A Look","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Usually I review a movie just after I've seen it, but the last time I saw this one was a full 2 weeks ago. Yet it still sticks in my mind and heart.Baseball movies are inspirational by nature and seem to have all kinds of application to life (for example, my review of Field of Dreams). Jimmy Morris challenges the losing baseball team he's coaching to not give up on their dreams and has the challenge thrown right back at him. This wouldn't make for such drama if the majority of the movie up to that point hadn't been to show how Jimmy's own dream had been systematically dismantled. Such movies anyone can write, but when I found out it was a true story, it put the movie in a higher bracket altogether. The conflict between Jimmy and his father is played very well by both Quaid and Cox. At one point or another, you can just feel coldness of the walls built up between them. They're reaching out (Hunter's baseball glove, Jimmy's asking advice), but can they ever connect? While some might balk (sorry) at the presence of Hunter, Jimmy's son, I think the kid adds a lot to the film. Baseball is all about kids, anyway. And it's good to see a son who looks up to and believes in his dad. That phase is over far too soon for most fathers to enjoy it enough. I think the dream is as much Hunter's as it is his father's.The theme of the Rookie is never give up on your dreams. That's laudable. But the affirmation of the importance of families, even through broken relationships, as well as a clean script, makes this one that families can buy to watch every now and then. Disney surprised me with this believable, down-to-earth tale. I'm definitely picking this one up on DVD. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Walt Disney's The Rookie is based on the story of Jim Morris, a former minor league picher who made one of the most amazing comebacks in sports history, ending an almost 10 year retirement and making his Major League debut in 1999 at the age of 35.The film opens with a brief synopsis of Morris' childhood, which included a series of re-locations - his father was a military man. And even when his family settled for good in football crazed Texas, Morris' passion for baseball remained strong.The childhood segment then jumps ahead about 23 years to the adult Morris (played by Dennis Quaid) who is now a baseball coach and chemistry teacher at Big Lake High School (in real life it was Reagan County High School in Big Lake, Texas). It is mentioned that he attempted a career as a baseball player but that it didn't work out.Morris's team is struggling and he lectures them about giving up on their dreams. They turn the table on him, telling him that he should try out for a Major League team. At several times when he pitches to them in practice, they express amazement at the speed with which he throws. Morris seems unconvinced but agrees to a deal with his players in which if they win district, he will try out for a Major League team.Big Lake does win district and, adhering to his end of the deal, Morris attends a Tampa Bay Devil Rays try out. Phenomenally, he throws 98 miles an hour - faster than he threw during his minor league career and an outstanding speed even for a Major League pitcher. After another try out with the team, Morris is offered a contract with the Devil Rays.This leaves him with a tough decision - stay in his comfortable life or once again pursue his Major League dream by going through the minor league grind of making little money and spending months at a time away from home. And the decision is even more agonizing than during his first minor league stint because he now has a wife and three children.Morris signs with the Devil Rays, begins at the AA level and moves up quickly to the AAA level, one level below Major League Baseball. But as the season winds down, the chances of him getting called up grow increasingly slim.For the most part, I love this movie. There are lots of great performances and likable characters and it's easy to find yourself really pulling for Morris. Also, the movie does a great job portraying professional baseball at both the major and minor league levels. And most of all, it teaches the timeless message of holding tight to your dreams even when they seem distant and almost impossible to achieve.Still, the movie has some flaws. While generally accurate, it exaggerates and even fabricates a few things. Check out http//espn.go.com/page2/s/closer/020410.html for some examples. Also, except for one scene in which he prays with his players, the movie completely ignores Morris' Christian faith. But considering Disney's left wing zeal, that's not surprising.Presumably, a lot of the exaggerations/fabrications were done to make the story more dramatic. Yet the 20 minute documentary on Morris that is included on the DVD features some information that makes his story more dramatic but is excluded from the movie.For example, from birth until his family settled in Texas for good when he was 12, Morris re-located 14 times. And his initial minor league career ended after four surgeries through which he lost half of the muscle in his left (pitching) shoulder, thus making his throwing 98 mph even more inexplicable.To fully appreciate and understand the story of Jim Morris, it's good to not only watch The Rookie but to watch the DVD's documentary, check out the aforementioned link to the movie's inaccuracies and probably also to read Morris' biography, also titled The Rookie. I haven't read the book but I hope to one of these days.But overall, The Rookie is a very good portrayal of a miraculous story and is a powerful testament to the power of dreams and the triumph of the common man. 8/10 "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This was one of the best bio-pics I have seen in years. Dennis Quaid is perfect as Jim Morris, a man who finally gets a shot at his lifelong dream-pitching in the big leagues. He is a high school science teacher/baseball coach whose players make a bet with himif they win district, he tries out for the majors. You can probably guess what happens next. I found this story made even more powerful by the fact that it was based on a true story.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Very good, and true, too...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A fine story about following your dreams and actually taking a stab at Doing something about them when the chance strikes. Nothing was easy for Morris either-he had a family, job, job opps elsewheres, a mortgage, etc-it wasn't like he could just drop what he was doing and blithely hop on the greyhound to play AAA ball for 4 months. It took guts. I am glad that they showed his indecision, almost up 'til he got the callup to the majors.I can remember seeing him pitch against the Red Sox(I think...), it was a great story. Though Morris actually looks more like John Kruk or a Mills Watson than Quaid-that's okay. Quaid does a very good job playing the man, the teacher, coach and 'oldest rookie'.... As someone who is in the the same age group, I certainly can ID with his plight. You're not Quite too old to do what you had dreamed of as a kid, but it's getting there. You have to do it sooner than lator.Believably told, nicely edited, paced, acted, good to see the familiar faces of the late Royce Applegate, Brian Cox and Rachel Griffiths here.Good job all around, glad to see it hit.*** outta ****...who woulda thought that the Tampa Devil Rays woulda been the subject of such a good movie early on? "},{"Title":"another sentimental baseball fable","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  When women feel the need for a `good cry' at the movies, they usually seek out some tragic tale of unrequited love to do the trick.   When men feel the same need, they turn to a film about baseball.  And what could be more guaranteed to convert a grown man into a shamelessly blubbering fool than a true-life account of a middle-aged baseball fanatic who gets to fulfill his lifelong dream of playing in the major leagues?  How many men can fail to identify with that?   Indeed, most men may not want to admit this, but the baseball movie genre has, in many ways, become the male equivalent of that category of film known, derisively by many men, as the `chick flick,' for they both serve roughly the same purpose.  Apparently, even we stoic males have the need to clear out the tear ducts every now and then - for purely medical reasons of course. Because baseball has long enjoyed the reputation of being `America's National Pastime,' moviemakers have often treated it less as a sport than as an iconic institution.  From `Pride of the Yankees' to `Brian's Song' to `Bang the Drum Slowly' to `The Natural' to `Field of Dreams,' movies about baseball have been so concerned with all the mythic implications of the sport that they have rarely managed to convey the sense of carefree fun that comes along with it (`Bull Durham' has been one of the few obvious exceptions to this rule).  The tone in these films is sometimes so sentimental and so reverential that one begins to view baseball more as a type of pseudo religion - with the stadium functioning as a sort of temple where people gather to participate in a communal spiritual experience - than as a form of entertainment.  `The Rookie' certainly falls into this category, yet the film itself has such an air of comforting familiarity about it that it manages to override much of the conventionality of the storyline.  Although we always know where the movie is headed, the easy assuredness with which it charts its course keeps us interested and absorbed for most of the duration.  The majority of the credit goes to Dennis Quaid who, as Jim Morris, the high-school-teacher-turned-big-league-ballplayer, does a first rate job portraying a man torn between responsibility to his family and this golden, once-in-a-lifetime opportunity of realizing a childhood dream.  Quaid underplays the role so nicely that we never doubt for a moment the authenticity of all we are seeing on screen.  The screenplay by Mike Rich, though filled with overly familiar scenes and characters, nevertheless manages to avoid many of the potential lapses into overwrought melodrama that could conceivably have robbed it of much of its credibility (the dark hints early on in the film as to Morris' problematic physical condition happily never come to fruition).   Director John Lee Hancock establishes an almost elegiac tone, pacing the film in such a way as to match the unhectic lifestyle of both Morris and the small Texas town in which he lives.`The Rookie,' like Disney's previous sports opus `Remember the Titans,' eschews violence, sexuality and bad language completely, thereby garnering the film a `G' rating and making it first class entertainment for the entire family.  There may be nothing much new in it for adults, but `The Rookie' has the skill to make what was old seem somehow new again.  Not unlike what happens to the hero himself in fact.    "},{"Title":"Not a 'rookie' in entertainment","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  ****Starring Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, and Angus T. Jones.A science teacher in his late thirties decides to follow his dream...playing professional baseball.  The team that he coaches makes a bet that if they win the championship, then he must try out for pro baseball.  Well guess what happens?  Yep, you guessed it. I can't exactly tell you the rest, but you'll love it.The film has a lot of heart that keeps this movie going and going.  Quaid portrays a wonderful performance as Jimmy Morris.  Everyone else is perfect, and his is definitely on the top 10 of 2002.  It's Oscar material all the way and deserves whatever it gets.What's also good about this is that it can be a great movie with no bad language or anything.  That's a sign of great writing.Highly recommended to everyone, but very highly recommended to families. "},{"Title":"A Believable and True Underdog Story","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie is based on the true story of a 40+ year old school teacher in Big Lake, Texas reaching the majors. Jimmy Morris (Dennis Quaid) is a small-town high school science teacher and baseball coach. His team is losing terribly until the team discovers that their coach played in minor leagues and can throw a pitch 98 mph. After throwing batting practice and a wager is made, Jim agrees that if his team wins regional's, he'll try out for the Major Leagues. The movie tells the story from Jimmy being boy to playing in his first game in the majors. It is a great underdog story and a very friendly family movie. Dennis Quaid makes the movie worth while, giving an emotional performance and is supported by an excellent supporting cast which includes Brian Cox, Rachel Griffiths, and Angus T. Jones. The story takes a little while to develop and some scenes are a bit slow but it all works in well by the end. The baseball scenes are fun, well-filmed, and portrayed excellently. The movie really isn't about baseball but about one man's quest to reach his dream. It's inspiring, it's emotional, and it's funny. I liked it, I hope you do.The Rookie. Starring Dennis Quaid, Brian Cox, Rachel Griffiths, and Angus T. Jones.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Believe!","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie is directed by John Lee Hancock and written by Mike Rich. It stars Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, Jay Hernandez, Brian Cox, Angus T. Jones, Rick Gonzalez and Angelo Spizzirri. Music is by Carter Burwell and cinematography by John Schwartzman.Out of Walt Disney Productions, The Rookie is based on the true story of 35 year old teacher and school baseball coach Jim Morris (Quaid). Who having thought his chance of making it to the major leagues in Baseball had long since gone, his minor league career curtailed by a shoulder injury, got that second chance and became the oldest rookie around.What an absolute treat! A sports movie that inspires and uplifts whilst never resorting to cloying tactics or Hollywood sprucing story additions. First off the bat is that the film is unhurried in pace, time is afforded Morris and his family as well as the key issues that lead to his moment of fulfilment. Secondly is the bare honesty of the story, and that of the portrayals by a wonderful Quaid (at 47 here playing a 35 year old) and a likewise Griffiths. We are not going to be arriving at some monumental cliff-hanger finale (as per most other sports movies), history tells us that Morris made a minimal impact in his two years in the majors, this takes us to an earthy and achievable goal being attained.Just prior to Morris making his bow at Arlington Stadium, we have seen the love of a husband and father who is separated from his family. He's out on the road playing ball, the emotional tug pulling him everywhere. There's money worries back home as well, really Jim would be better served back there, surely? All of this sounds like a recipe for sappy crappy time, but it's not, it's all beautifully handled by director and actors alike. The baseball scenes are smooth, the score and photography pristine in their execution (it's a Blu-ray must have), there is just no waste here. There's a rich human story to be told and wasting time on incidentals would be wrong, and Hancock knows this and never puts a foot wrong.Heart warming and impeccably mounted, The Rookie is one of the greatest baseball films out there. But, and here's the thing, it's as much about life and its challenges as it is about fast balls and hot-dogs. 9/10 "}{"Title":"The Best Pitcher of the Year!!!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Once upon a time Hollywood produced live-action, G-rated movies without foul language, immorality, and gore-splattered violence. These movies neither insulted your intelligence no manipulated your emotions. The heroes differed little from the crowd. They shared the same feelings and bore the same burdens. Since the 1970s, the film industry has pretty much written off G-rated movies for adults. Basically, modern mature audiences demand large doses of embellished realism for their cinematic diet, laced heavily with vile profanity, mattress-thumping sex, and knuckle-bruising fisticuffs. These ingredients constitute the difference between G-rated movies and those rated either PG or PG-13.Miraculously, director John Lee Hancock, who penned scripts for Clint Eastwood's A Perfect World (1993) and Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil (1997), hits a home run with this G-rated, feel-good, four-bagger of a baseball epic that not only celebrates America's favorite summer time sport, but also extols the competitive spirit of the game. Essentially, The Rookie resembles the 1984 Robert Redford saga The Natural about an old-time slugger who makes a comeback. Unlike The Natural, The Rookie shuns swearing, sex, and violence.Moreover, rugged Dennis Quaid plays a real-life individual. Jim Morris' autobiography, The Oldest Rookie Big-League Dreams from a Small-Town Guy, served as the basis for Mike Finding Forrester) Rich's unpretentious, Norman Rockwell-style screenplay about white, middle-class aspirations. Morris attained his dream when he debuted on the mound as a relief pitcher in 1999. Although it doesn't belong in the same league with the inspirational James Stewart classic The Stratton Story (1949), The Rookie qualifies as the kind of movie that Hollywood rarely makes anymore because audiences find them antiquated.Hancock and Rich encapsulate their entertaining oddball biography in a halo of mysticism. A wildcat oil prospector convinces two Catholic nuns back in the 1920s to bankroll a West Texas well. Fearing they have blown their bucks on an ill-advised fantasy, the sisters blanket the arid terrain with rose petals and entreat St. Rita's patron saint of hopeless causes' to intervene. The well gushes! The Town of Big Lake emerges, and roughnecks swat at baseballs when they aren't drilling holes in the terrain. The spirit of baseball oozes from the earth like petroleum. Meanwhile, years later, the U.S. Navy doesn't keep Jim Morris, Sr., (Brian Cos of Manhunter) and his family in one place long before uprooting them. The constant moving takes a toll on Jim Junior. Jim's dad shows little sympathy and berates baseball.Nevertheless, Jim has baseball in his blood, enough so that when he accepts a high school chemistry teacher's job in his Texas hometown, he organizes a baseball team. Like the foul-mouthed Bad News Bears, The Rookie chronicles Jim's triumph at turning losers into winners. Morris promises the team if they reach the divisional playoffs, he will try out for a professional baseball team. Predictably, Morris' students maintain their end of the bargain. At age 35, Jim stuns the big league scouts when he hurls fastballs at 98 miles-per-hour! The Rookie never fouls out. "},{"Title":"Great, Great, Great.","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" This was truly a great movie. I loved Dennis Quaid and the entire baseball team. Jay Hernandez is also a very likable actor that is very enjoyable to watch. The chemistry the team had once they got things together was spectacular, it just goes to show what you what can accomplish when minds unite as one with one goal. This team came back from the brink, having multiple losing seasons to winning just about everything. I love movies like this as they really are very inspirational.On top of that, Dennis Quaid's character getting a place in the major leagues. You can't do anything, but root for this guy. It just seems like when someone is supposed to do something, they are going to do that. Things just happen to fall into place and makes everything click.Based on a true story, this film will really make you think about the fact that nothing is impossible. "},{"Title":"You are never too old to chase your dreams","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  One of the best films I have ever seen!  An inspirational true story of a man who gave up his dream of making the Big Leagues many years ago due to a severe shoulder injury who coached his high school team and was also teaching science.  His shoulder had healed over the years and he was able to throw batting practice without pain and his team was amazed at how hard he could throw.  They made a deal with him that if they won their conference and went to State, he would have to pursue his dream (long ago given up) by going to a major league tryout.  He thought this was a safe bet, since the team had started the season off on a losing note.  The team got hot, won the conference and he reluctantly followed thru on his end of the bet.  The amazing fact was how much harder he was able to throw now, as compared with how he threw many years ago.  The movie left out the fact that when his shoulder was operated on many years earlier, a large bone spur was removed and he no longer had shoulder pain (although he had already retired from baseball)  The movie made his new founded ability to throw 98 miles per hour (he could only throw 85 in his prime) seem miraculous in nature.  Even though it is remarkable, the real Jimmy Morris was a muscular athlete who probably was limited by this large bone spur in his shoulder that wasn't removed till after he retired.  Other than that, the movie follows his true life quite accurately and Dennis Quaid was excellent playing Jimmy Morris. The fact that he was the oldest major league rookie since Satchel Paige makes for an interesting story and it is truly a remarkable, uplifing movie.---definitely 4 stars out of 4 in my opinion "},{"Title":"Classy","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wow, for the most part this was a great movie.  With the exception of too many errors in the scene shot at The Ballpark in Arlington, this was a great all-around movie.  I expected Disney Cheese, but instead it was just a great story that was presented beautifully. "},{"Title":"So this is the last great thing made by Disney, huh?????","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" An end of an era was released here in the States in Spring 2002 with The Rookie, a Disney live action film that seemed to be the best for last!!!!! It took place right here in Texas! Actually, the story began in West Texas, as evidenced by an area code found on a sign over there. It was about a high school coach who was so convinced by his high class baseball team that he decided to go professional!!!!!What I liked about this movie It was sooo nice!!!!! It was a very good sports movie, ala The Mighty Ducks trilogy. It had also taken moviegoers across Texas, from somewhere between the Panhandle and El Paso all the way to the Metroplex (where I live). I can tell because I recognize that ballpark (was The Ballpark in Arlington; now it's Ameriquest Field)! It was nice to see Disney's Golden Age end here in my area!!!!!R.I.P.Golden Age of Disney1920s-Spring 2002It all started with a mouse...and it ended with baseball. (sobs)10/10 "},{"Title":"A real natural","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  THE ROOKIE (2002) **1/2 Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, Brian Cox, Jay Hernandez, Beth Grant, Angus T. Jones, Rick Gonzalez, Chad Lindberg. Better-than-anticipated yet predictable &#145;true life' account of Texas chemistry high school teacher/baseball coach Jim Morris (Quaid at his most amiable/vulnerable) whose lifetime ambition to play professional ball returns in the form of his dormant fastball and love of his family to fulfill his dreams.  Corny in the best ways and fun all around make up for the by-the-numbers connections that ultimately lead to the hero's quest. (Dir John Lee Hancock) "},{"Title":"Follow that dream.","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wholesome determination makes for a film for the entire family to watch. A former minor league pitcher Jimmy Morris(Dennis Quaid)turns to teaching and coaching in Big Lake, Texas and bargains with his formerly hapless high school players that if they go to the state championships he will try out for the big leagues again. In 1999, Morris becomes the Oldest Rookie when he lands a job with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays as a 98 mph throwing lefty from the bullpen. Morris' dream is short, but sweet. And his story seems to have spawned from a Hollywood script. Although this is based on fact the movie could have been much better if filmed with a more mature approach. My favorite scene is where Morris is at the tryouts camp and he wipes his nose holding a soiled diaper. Also in the cast are Rachel Griffiths, Rick Gonzales, Russell Richardson and Blue Deckert. "},{"Title":"An Inspirational Sports Family Drama","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie tells the inspiring story of Jim Morris,who became a Major League baseball player at age 35.It stars Dennis Quaid,who portrayed Morris together with Rachel Griffiths,Jay Hernandez and Brian Cox.This film directed by John Lee Hancock narrates two inspiring stories.First,it deals with Jim Morris' stint as a Chemistry teacher and the school's - Big Lake High School - baseball team coach.Then,it provides the story on Jim's road of taking another shot dream of playing in the Major League from the try outs to the pitching his first game as a relief pitcher of the Tampa Bay Blue Rays. It is apparent that the film has a target audience - young adults - about not giving up on their dreams and about reaching the impossible goals that seems to be far fetched.Despite the fact that there is evidence of sign-posted plots and that the events that follow seem to be predictable to the viewer,it manages to become compelling and interesting due to Dennis Quaid's honest portrayal of Jim Morris.His performance allows us to see through the man who has a not-so-good relationship with his father and someone who felt unfulfilled in his favorite sport after he failed to play in the Majors due to many arm injuries that he has suffered.In addition to that,we also get to see someone who is concerned with his students and his perpetually losing baseball team to achieve greater heights.Finally,we get to see him as a caring father to his kids and a loving husband.These qualities made the viewer cheer for him all throughout the movie.What's also great about this sports family drama is it features two inspiring stories Big Lake's winning the district championship and Morris' success on becoming the oldest rookie in the Majors.These stories teach the viewer never to give up; and that working hard and having heart in pursuing one's dream provides a better chance into coming into fruition.These lessons will definitely provide inspiration to the viewer in whatever goals and ambition that he has in mind.In summary,The Rookie is definitely one of the best sports film for the young audience out there. "},{"Title":"Guy Clark Introduction","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Casting and performances were superb and the fact that the screen play is based on true life events makes it even more special. You don't even realize how many excellent songs, and such a wide variety of song styles are in the movie until you review the sound track. Great inspirational movie but I am especially thankful for my introduction to Guy Clark. He sang Stuff That Works and I was hooked. I now have most of Guy Clark's albums, and eventually will have all of them. If you haven't listened to Guy Clark's music - you have missed one of life's greatest pleasures. Simple, everyday life lyrics combined with strong guitar licks. He is a Grammy Award winning American Texas Country and folk singer, musician, songwriter, recording artist, and performer. He has released more than twenty albums, and his songs have been recorded by other artists including Johnny Cash, David Allan Coe, Vince Gill, Ricky Skaggs, Steve Wariner, Hayes Carll, Brad Paisley, John Denver, Alan Jackson, Rodney Crowell, The Highwaymen, and Kenny Chesney. Guy Clark won the 2014 Grammy Award for Best Folk Album My Favorite Picture Of You. The Rookie is a movie that can be re-watched and enjoyed every year, and the sound track is every bit as good as the movie.Most people watch a movie and concentrate on the visual images, never realizing the contribution made by a great soundtrack. If you asked viewers to name songs included in The Rookie, they probably couldn't name two, and the movie contains 18 carefully crafted songs written and/or performed by masters of the art, like Nat King Cole, Elvis Presley, and John Fogerty. Look em up! "},{"Title":"Heart-Warming Sports Movie!","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie is actually a better movie than I thought it would be. It's heart-warming and just a perfect family film. Yes, it may be overly-clichéd but because of the top-notch performances and the theme of an old-timer realizing his dreams, we can't but help enjoy this film. It also ranks up with one of the best baseball films I have ever seen.John Lee Hancock's film is about a guy named Jim Morris who was a highly-touted baseball prospect but he was always injured. Years later, he is a chemistry teacher and baseball coach in Texas when he realizes he still may have some pitches left in him. Because of that, he begins to realize he may pitch in the majors after all.The acting is very good. Dennis Quaid brings earnesty and hope to his character and we see why Dennis Quaid is one of the nicest guys in film business. Brian Cox has a nice supporting turn as his stern, disapproving father.Overall, this is a very good film thanks to some high quality performances and a wonderful script. This is an excellent sports film and an even better baseball film. I have to point out this film is not just about baseball, but about some guy making his dreams come true after he thought all is done. I rate this film 9/10. "}{"Title":"Balancing family, work and pursuing your dreams","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" My only criticism of this movie is that it's a bit long, as they try to fit two stories into one. Would've been fairly easy to make an entire movie of the first half--a baseball coach who inspires his under- achieving team to rally and win district, then an entirely different movie of the second half--a 30-something science teacher giving himself one last chance to make the big leagues.For me, this movie is right up there with other great sports movies, such as Hoosiers, Miracle, and Chariots of Fire. Perhaps not quite at that level, but the story is great and definitely inspiring. Even if you're not a baseball fan, you can appreciate the emphasis this movie puts on the realities and pressures that families face every day in balancing work and taking care of the kids. And I love that they bring out the challenges of minor league baseball--long bus rides, very little income, and away from family for months at a time.My favorite scene is after Jim finishes his tryout and is walking back to his truck, the scout comes up to tell him that he, although almost twice the other kids' age, actually threw 98 mph. The scout tells Jim that if he doesn't call it in he's gonna get fired and that Jim can expect to get a phone call. Just wish he'd throw away the dirty diaper! "},{"Title":"Great Sports Movie","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Dennis Quaid is so good in this movie and I enjoyed the film 'The Rookie' tremendously. Sports movies sometimes are hard to put across but this fine film excels and all hands involved in this film deserve thanks for a fine effort. Mr. Quaid is so likable in this movie it is one of his best outings. I also liked the quasi religious theme in the beginning and end of the movie with the Catholic nuns. The Rookie is a fine movie extolling excellence and team sportsmanship. Fine supporting performances, fine cinematography. Fine everything. See this movie!!The Rookie would be a good spin off to a weekly TV showDavid Barra ARSports Ltd Los Angeles "},{"Title":"Amazing Family Movie!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie was a near perfect movie that was based on a true story. It added different genres at just the right moments a sprinkle of drama, many parts of family, and a heck of a lot of baseball.Starring Denis Quad, The Rookie was about a Texas High School Baseball Coach/Father who agreed his team that if they were to make the playoffs, he would try out for the major league. Little did he know, he actually had a 98 batting average and of course, was sent to play on a major league team.If your part of a sports family or just simply love baseball, I highly recommend that you see the Rookie.Best Sports movie of 2002 Hands Down! My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Inspirational film","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" This is a feel good film, about one person's dreams and the drive or push to realize them. It is a beautiful and inspirational film. Why do some people have to try and find fault with every film that comes out, especially the good ones. Dennis Quaid gives a good solid performance in this true story of Jim Morris, a science teacher and high school baseball coach who is pushed by his team to take one more shot at a professional baseball career. With excellent supporting cast, including Brian Cox, as the crusty old ex navy officer who has let so much of his son's achievements go by without his support. It was good to see him as something other than a villain in a film. If I have one complaint with this film it is this Don't ever let Royce Applegate sign the national anthem again. Seriously, this film belongs to that handful of great baseball films like Field of Dreams and The Natural. It rates two thumbs up and a big well done. "},{"Title":"great family movie from Disney","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" this a great Disney flick.it is the story of an aging high school baseball coach(Dennis Quaid),who was once on his way to the big leagues as a pitcher,but suffered a career ending injury.but through series of events,Jimmy Morris(Quaid)gets a try out with a major league team and even makes the roster.this is a great family film.it is inspirational,but doesn't pour it on too thick.it's fun and entertaining.adults will enjoy this movie as well as kids.it is based upon a true story,though i'm sure the filmmakers took some liberties in telling the story.Quaid is sensational as the title character,very convincing.if you're looking for a film the whole family can enjoy,look no further.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Story Of Baseball And Courage","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Having spent eight years helping to coach high school baseball in East Los Angeles the Performance of Dennis Quaid as Jim Morris is as true to the real thing as you can get. The baseball games, tryouts and practices were as realistic as you can get in a film. Quaid's form in pitching proved that he learned to pitch at one time. Yet this film is more than baseball. It is a story of a man that has seen his career in baseball end early in life because of a arm injury. Surgery is performed but he can no longer continue in professional baseball. As with many players, baseball is in his blood so he becomes a high school baseball coach. In pitching practice to his players a miracle occurs, an older Morris is throwing harder now. He goes to a major league tryout. He is an old man by baseball standards. Morris is by far the oldest man at the tryout and given no chance to succeed. Wonder of Wonders as he is signed and then enters the minor leagues. Having coached a player myself that played minor league baseball, the scenes are very truthful. The long bus trips, lonely nights, and the desire to phone home are a way of life for the minor leaguer. Finally Morris is called up to the bigs and he and his father are reunited. Both men are not close but the walls are broken down because of baseball. This film is a display of hope for anyone that has grown older. There is a chance to succeed even when others think that you are too old. An uplifting film for all to see.  "},{"Title":"The best Disney movie since Walt's death","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  If you wanted to know what kind of movies Walt Disney produced back in the 60's watch The Rookie. This is true Disney magic.. At it's best!!The Rookie is the story of Jim Morris. The man who was a teacher, that became a MLB pitcher for Tampa Bay.. If you love feel good sports movie, you must see The Rookie!    "},{"Title":"Second Greatest Baseball Film next to Field Of Dreams","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  All I Have to say is that this film was Brilliant. One thing that it laked though was it was really long and slow in some parts. There is one Scene thought that is one of the greatest Sports Scenes EVER. And of course its when he pulls over at the side of the road and pictches the ball and the meter reads 76...but when he walks away..it changes to 96. Classic!!!!!!! One of 6 films to ever leave me with a Tear in my Eye. Great ending and great Film all around 9/10 "},{"Title":"Second Greatest Baseball Film next to Field Of Dreams","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  All I Have to say is that this film was Brilliant. One thing that it laked though was it was really long and slow in some parts. There is one Scene thought that is one of the greatest Sports Scenes EVER. And of course its when he pulls over at the side of the road and pictches the ball and the meter reads 76...but when he walks away..it changes to 96. Classic!!!!!!! One of 6 films to ever leave me with a Tear in my Eye. Great ending and great Film all around 9/10 "},{"Title":"Breath-taking","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This was a fantastic movie about hope and going after your dreams. Dennis Quaid was fantastic in this movie. It's about a man who is getting old and he throws the baseball really well. Then he wants to go to the big leagues to try to be a great pitcher. It's a great movie and I enjoyed watching this movie and I thought it was a fantastic plot to make a movie about. I recommend this movie to all viewers who like to watch and learn about the great American sport baseball. It was a great movie. "}{"Title":"Quite Surprised!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I wasn't too sure what to expect with this flick, gawd knows I've seen many baseball movies and some are quite impressive (see BANG THE DRUM SLOWLY, FIELD OF DREAMS, THE NATURAL, to name but a few), while others leave much to be desired. THE ROOKIE, based on a true story, wasn't overtly sentimental, too predictable and featured fine performances from the entire cast. While it's not the best film I've seen on the game, the fact that it's as much about finding the strength to resurrect your dreams is definitely refreshing.  "},{"Title":"Emotional","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  It took me passing up the movie in a local rental shop about 4 times to finally pick it up and see how Quaid performs.After seeing the movie I realized it was based on a true science teacher who aactually went all the way purely on a deal made by high school students.I loved the movie, and the story behind it. The connection at the end with his father made it worth a tear or two. "},{"Title":"A VERY NICE LITTLE MOVIE","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  It was nice to go see a movie with no sex, no cuss words and just a good story.  A movie of this calibre is rare nowadays, with most having a poor story but lots of sex and violence.  It is nice to be able to take the WHOLE FAMILY to see an entertaining movie with very good acting by the whole cast.  GO SEE IT. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie....","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie 3 years ago, and it was introduced by then Disney chief Eisner and the real Jim Morris.About a month ago, it came back on TV, and this time I taped it. Since then I must've watched it at least three times.This is a wonderful, inspirational, feel good movie that is intelligently written and believably acted by everyone concerned. It resists going for every sentimental trick in the book, as well as all of the other clichés.It is refreshing to see a movie where the kids aren't jerks and have a whole slew of behavioral issues, and the jocks aren't portrayed as testosterone driven muscleheads.These are just normal people who have dreams like you and I.In my opinion, Hollywood as gone the other extreme to what they term gritty realism, making movies where everyone curses, and has problems with aggression.This movie is about a man who has a dream, and is encouraged by friends and family to pursue that dream. The people in Big Lake TX seem so personable that I want to move there.As I said b4, the film doesn't try to go overboard with sentimentality. Dennis Quaid, as usual, never disappoints. I've watched him from the late 70's, and he is so underrated.But this movie has excellent performances from EVERYONE concerned, and kudos to the writers.A gem in the movie is near the end when Jim is practicing in the dugout before the big game, and his wife calls out to him from the stands. He rushes over and reaches out to his family. The look on the faces of the three other pitchers sitting on the bench in the dugout is priceless.If you're looking for a change of pace, then pick this movie up. "},{"Title":"One of the best of this genre","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie has several things going for it. It is a feel good story. The characters and actors are likable, realistic and present fine performances. Most important, I believe, is that Dennis Quaid knows how to grip and throw a baseball. Robert Redford looked good both throwing and swinging a bat in The Natural, and so did Kevin Costner in For Love of the Game and Bull Durham. In Major League, Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen looked like they knew what they were doing, but many of the others did not, and that picture was pure silliness - and not very funny. So many earlier baseball movies, even where the stories might be interesting, presented such a lack of baseball ability on the part of the leads, they were ludicrous in this respect. In The Stratton Story and Strategic Air Command, Jimmy Stewart looked about as believable as a professional baseball player, as your overweight, non-athletic, elderly uncle in the softball game at the family reunion. Other virile and physically robust stars (e.g., Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig; Robald Reagan as Grover Cleveland Alexander; and Dan Dailey as Dizzy Dean) also exhibited a degree of baseball ability that would put them in the late rounds while choosing-up for a game at the Sunday picnic (even if coed, and even if your uncle were involved). The scenes of Quaid's high school team he coached, the ones where he attends his tryout with the Devil Rays, and those with him playing in two minor leagues and in the American League, all ring true. The participants are believable and capable. In addition, he is an engaging actor who always delivers a talented and appropriate characterization (except, to a degree, some of his over-the-top scenes, and his forced accent, in his portrayal of Jerry Lee Lewis). But he's definitely on-target here, and this movie is a 9, as good, or better, as any others of this genre, except for The Natural. "},{"Title":"Real-life things in the movie","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" I don't know if a lot of people know this, but the Rangers P.A. Announcer and the Radio Announcer are the actual announcers for the Rangers. Eric Nadel actually does the Ranger Broadcasts on KRLD NewsRadio 1080 in Dallas-Fort Worth with Victor Rojas. Eric Nadel has been broadcasting Rangers' baseball for 26 seasons.Eric Nadel is in his ninth year as the lead voice for the Rangers' radio broadcasts. This marks his 25th season broadcasting Rangers' baseball, the longest tenure of any announcer in the history of the franchise. Nadel worked on television and radio from 1979-81, then teamed with Mark Holtz for the next 13 years on radio while also doing televised games in 1984. One of his most memorable calls was Nolan Ryan's 5,000th career strikeout on August 22, 1989. He is a two-time selection (1999 and 2001) as Texas Sportscaster of the Year by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association. Nadel, who taught himself to speak fluent Spanish, has called several games in Spanish during his frequent off-season visits to Latin America. Prior to joining the Rangers, he was the play-by-play announcer for the Dallas Black Hawks of the Central Hockey League and the Dallas Diamonds of the Women's Professional Basketball League. For the last 19 years, he has done A Page From Baseball's Past radio features that run on the Rangers' radio network. His latest book, Texas Rangers The Authorized History was released in 1997. Elected to the Texas Baseball Hall of Fame in 1991, Nadel and his wife Jeannie reside in Dallas. "},{"Title":"Great excellent sportsdrama, wanna cry go for it!!!!!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Well, tonight I saw this movie for the third time being the first 2 times sometime ago and I had to dry my eyes more than once!This movie gives me a boost every time I see it, if it happens to be on cable when I turn on the TV to look a new bought CD/DVD I cant stop looking to start the movie until it is finished.After seeing it tonight I just wanna check its rating but then my eye was caught by some fool(Filmjack3 from New Jersey) commenting on this flick that it was bad and Dennis Quaid was ill-casted, well sorry but that got me going to remove this comment being the current one with this great movie.I my opinion all players are great in this movie, I must say I don't know the true story but as far as just seeing this movie, its great. In particular the first time with his own team when he throws a fast one and when he has his first appearance in the majors being asked by the coach to throw 3 fast ones, which he does when a dangerous player starts hitting, striking him out!Again, great movie, I rate it 9 out of 10!Mario de Soet "},{"Title":"Inspiring, touching, and Dennis Quaid.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is one of my favorite sports movies.  Dennis Quaid is moving and convincing in the part of a man who gave up his dream of being a baseball pitcher when his arm gave out on him.  As a high school coach, he challenges his players to win the division championship by telling them he'll try out for a baseball team if they do.  They win (partly because of all the batting practice they take with a coach who can pitch over 90 miles an hour), and he keeps his side of the bargain--and is signed!  If you have ever decided to try something new and terrifying as an adult, Jim Morris's story will resonate with you.  It is moving and inspiring, and the man's relationships ring true.  Inspiration is not the only reason I rent this one, though.  Dennis Quaid is just downright purdy in the part, and a baseball movie with a good-looking man changing a diaper is my idea of heaven.  Ladies, if you feel the way I do, check this one out.   "},{"Title":"If you're a dad, this one touches the heart","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie, to me, is about family. Jimmy Morris lived his dream not just for himself, but for his family. I can't begin to tell you how I would be able to tell my little girl that daddy was going to Kansas City to cover Priest Holmes and the Kansas City Chiefs. She'd think it was the coolest thing, like Morris' son did. Living dreams with the family is what this one is about. I think only a father who has a close relationship with his family can truly appreciate what Jimmy Morris did. "},{"Title":"Solid film, with excellent moments","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I liked the director's comment (on the DVD) that you couldn't make this movie if it wasn't true.  He is absolutely right.  It is an unbelievable story, especially for anyone who wishes to have just one more chance at their youth.Quaid gives an excellent restrained performance.  An Army brat raised all over the place, but finally in Texas, he has charm and humor and a solid cowboy-like presence.  The boy who played his oldest child was wonderful, if at the cost of making the other children cardboard characters.Surrounding Quaid and his son are a wealth of characters, from Brian Cox (becoming one of my favorite character actors) as his father (as someone who lost several years with his father through mutual bullheadedness this was tough to watch), to the townspeople (especially the guy at the general store), to Rachel Griffiths as his believably attractive wife, all playing against the beautiful background of west Texas, we have a finely crafted piece of cinema.While bordering on maudlin, it never crosses over, Quaid plays stolid enough that the flashes of his smile are welcomed and his face as he pitches show the fastballer who only knows one way to throw. "}{"Title":"The Big Show","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Dennis Quaid stars in this biographical film about Jim Morris, once a promising prospect originally in the Milwaukee Brewer system who had several chances with a few teams and never quite made the Big Show as they call the Major Leagues. Now he's settled down being a full time science teacher and part time baseball coach at his small town Texas high school with wife Rachel Griffiths and their kids.But through some mysterious alchemy the arm trouble that washed him out seems to have gone away. Quaid is back throwing the high heat of his high school days. And soon more than his team notices.The Rookie is a great film in the sense that it shows people that every now and then dreams do come true. After long years Jim Morris got his chance to pitch in the Major Leagues, the dream of everyone who draws a paycheck playing a kid's game. His record isn't much for the Tampa Bay Rays and Morris managed to get there because this was an expansion team in existence for only a couple of years. But he's in the baseball encyclopedia for all time to come. Kind of like Moonlight Graham, played in Field Of Dreams by Burt Lancaster who was up for a cup of coffee and a look/see for John McGraw. The Rookie is a nice baseball film and big Kudos to Dennis Quaid and everyone else associated with bringing Jim Morris to the big screen as well as The Big Show. "},{"Title":"Not usually a fan of sports flicks, but this one rocks it","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie is a wonderfully done underdog story, a film that easily wins us over and has us cheering in the protagonist's corner in the first act. Dennis Quaid plays Jimmy Morris, a blue blooded baseball fanatic who grew up with the game running in his blood and a bucket load of talent, but never the time to pursue it growing up. His working class father (Brian Cox) discourages that kind of ambitious and adopts a vaguely bitter worldview. And so he grows up, starts a family and the dream fades. His skill resurfaces when he coaches the town's high school baseball team. They take notice of his wildfire pitching arm, and make him a deal if they win one championship, he takes a crack at the major leagues talent scout circuit. It's a pleasure watching an old dog like Quaid take a triumphant eleventh hour shot at success, and it makes for a fine film. Morris's fastball is a 90 plus mile an hour wunderkind and he is immediately drafted into the MLB despite his age. His family is overjoyed and he is filled with a new energy and love for life spurred on by his second chance at his passion. It's great stuff. Rachel Griffiths is solid as Jimmy's eternally supportive wife, Beth Grant is sweet as his mother and adorable Angus T. Jones makes good work of his doting son. It's Brian Cox who quietly steals the show as his father, a man soured by his own misplaced trajectory, who takes his damn time to come around and show some pride is his son. Cox is a deeply gifted pro who provides pools of gravity and anchors the film back on solid ground every time it veers towards excessive sentimentality. Especially his final, wrenching scene. A golden entry in the sports genre. "},{"Title":"Emotional but predictable! 5/10","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Review I missed this movie the fist time round so I thought that I would give it a watch, even though it's one of those feel good Disney movies. I personally enjoyed this film, especially as its a true story and Dennis Quaid put in a realistic performance but it is quite corny and predictable from the beginning to the end. It's a about a promising baseball player whose career was shattered after damaging his shoulder and advice from his doctor, so he takes on a job as a teacher in his small town. He also takes on a job as a baseball coach for his district team but they haven't won that many games. In 1999, he makes a bet with his team to pursue his baseball career if they win the district championship and with determination and brilliant coaching, they manage to win. He then tries out for the majors and everyone is shocked that this near middle aged man can throw a 98mph fastball, so the offers start flowing in. He then makes the tough decision to leave his family and go on the road with a baseball team but he doesn't really gel with the other players because of his age. He soon starts to miss his family and there debts start to build up so he decides to give up his dreams and go back home to take on a ordinary job so they can pay there bills. Soon after that, he gets an offer from a major league baseball team and he becomes the oldest baseball player with a unique and amazing fastball. It's a basic zero to hero story which we have seen many times before but the real footage of Jim Morris makes the film a joy to watch. I'm not a big fan of baseball but films like Bill Durham, Field Of Dreams and Tin Cup have brought the sport too people around the world. I liked the relationship between Jim Morris and his son, who always believed that his dad had a special fastball but it took Jim Morris some time to convince his dad who always thought that he had to give up his dreams to put food on the table. It is an amazing achievement for a 35 year old rookie to make it in the majors so this feel-good movie is a emotional biopic about a baseball hero. Enjoyable!Round-Up Dennis Quaid, 61, really hit it big after starring in the Right Stuff in 1983 and then he had roles in major films like Innerspace, which I really enjoyed, Dreamscape, Enemy Mine, The Big Easy and Great Balls of Fire in the 80's. Since then his career was plagued with hit and misses but his professional acting style has never been questioned. He has some major blockbusters behind him like Wyatt Earp, Any Given Sunday, the brilliant Dragonheart and Flight Of The Phoenix but it's hard to see were his career will go from here. It's been a long time since he has starred as the lead in a big blockbuster but his old movies will always be a joy to watch. This movie was directed by John Lee Hancock who brought you films like the Alamo, the great Blind Side and Saving Mr. Banks so he is known for his biopics. I would have liked to have seen the darker times of Jim Morris so it would have made it seem more real and not a typical happy go lucky Disney movie. With that aside, it is still an unique biopic which would be good if it was made for modern times. Judging by the movies takings, it obviously went down well with the audiences around the world so we are still suckers for the zero to hero concept. Anyway it's definitely worth a watch if your fed up with all the doom and gloom in everyday life but for entertainment and excitement, it's very average.Budget $22million Worldwide Gross $81millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their sports/drama/family movies about a rookie baseball player who pursues his dreams into the majors after taking a bet. 5/10 "},{"Title":"fine underdog family fare","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Jim Morris moved a lot as a kid being the son of a military man (Brian Cox). His baseball dream got sidelined time and again. He ended up in Texas where nuns supposedly blessed the grounds after putting their money in drilling oil. He was actually drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers but injuries ended his career. He returned back to Texas. He (Dennis Quaid) teaches high school chemistry with his wife (Rachel Griffiths) and three kids. He coaches an unmotivated school baseball team. The team wants him to go to a tryout for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. He agrees to do it if the team wins the championship.This is a nice inspirational family film. It's your basic nice small-town guy makes it to the big leagues. It's great anytime no matter what the big league is. That's not to say that this is a nothing special movie. In addition to the expected feel-good moments, there are some fun moments and some heart breaking moments. I like the grass. I like all the minor obstacles. I like Dennis Quaid. There's a lot to like. "},{"Title":"The rookie throw of the ball","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" A rather likable and old fashioned tale. Its a film in two halves where you first see Dennis Quaid as a High school baseball coach who is persuaded to try out as a professional pitcher late in life.The second half of the film is his search to be the oldest Rookie in the major league. Armed with a demon pitch, he can thrown the ball at over 90 miles per hour, he is taken seriously from the off.The film defies expectations, there are no villains, not much of the old timer jokes, very little in the way of chicanery. A rare films where everybody is nice to each other and a genuine lack of cynicism, especially as it is based on a true story. "},{"Title":"A fast ball","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Jimmy Morris' passion for baseball dominated his life. The son of a Navy recruiter, Jimmy was forced to move from town to town, leaving behind his dreams of playing a major leagues, specially after arriving in the remote Big Lake, Texas, where it appears his father had his longest tour of duty. To make matters worse, football was the favorite sport.The story, which starts during the early years of the Morris' arrival in Big Lake, changes to show us a grown Jimmy, now married, and the father of two children, managing the local high school team. Jim, who evidently tried a spot in the majors, got injured, and is resigned to the kind of life he didn't want back in his youth. One thing he never loses is the speed in which he throws a baseball. That quality will ultimately be the factor that will win him a spot with the Tampa Bay major league team, where he will make a name for himself, realizing his dream of playing professional baseball.John Lee Hancock, the director of the film, written by Mike Rich, gives us a glimpse on the life of a man who never gave up his desire for being part of the sport that he loved. Supposedly, this picture is based on the real Jim Morris, who went to make a name for himself because of the gift he brought to the game.It's impossible not to like the earnest performance of Dennis Quaid, an actor that is always reliable to give his best. The star is surrounded by the excellent Rachel Griffiths, relegated here to be the saintly Mrs. Morris, and Brian Cox, one of the best character actors working in movies today. Also Beth Grant shows up as Jim's mother. The film doesn't surprise, since we know where it will end, eventually, but it is a labor of love from Mr. Hancock and all the people involved in the project. "},{"Title":"John Lee Hancock Gets a Pop Up Inside the Park with Dennis Quaid","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Jim Morris (Dennis Quaid), father, teacher, and high school coach, thought his dream was over. He'd had his shot playing baseball, blew out his shoulder, and retired without ever making it to the big leagues. Then, in 1999, Coach Morris made a fateful bet with his perpetually losing team. If they won the district championship, Morris - who threw a 98 mph fastball - would try out for the majors. The team went from worst to first, and Jim, living up to his end of the bargain, threw caution to the wind and was on the road to becoming the oldest rookie in the major leagues&#x85; according to the official studio synopsis.This feel good / family movie is nicely played, but blandly fictionalized. As the thirtysomething man receiving a second chance at major league baseball stardom, Mr. Quaid is very believable. His character seems unnaturally distant from family members, which makes you yearn for more physical and emotional contact - perhaps, this is intentional. Quaid is closer to his likewise too old high school students Jay Hernandez (as Joaquin Wack Campos), Rick Gonzalez (as Rudy Bonilla), Chad Lindberg (as Joe David West), and Angelo Spizzirri (as Joel De La Garza). Along with rookie pal Russell Richardson (as Brooks), the younger baseball players are excellent, and give the Quaid and the film heart.That Mr. Spizzirri is among the standout young performers - he is immediately impressive, as Coach Quaid's high school catcher kid - makes the sadness of his untimely death linger. Curvaceous Rachel Griffiths (as Lorri Morris), appropriately distant Brian Cox (as Jim Morris Sr.), and Two and a Half Men star Angus T. Jones (as Hunter Morris) are the family who could have stood some deeper characterization. The song played over the end credits, Some Dreams by Steve Earle, fits the film like a glove Some dreams don't ever come true&#x85; aw, but some dreams do. ***** The Rookie (3/26/02) John Lee Hancock ~ Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, Angelo Spizzirri "},{"Title":"Based on a true story - a long lost dream becomes reality","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie was a pleasure to watch and enjoy as the story was about a man who could live down the street from you. The main character is no Superman - he has a family to provide for, the usual bills to pay but he also has a love and talent for Baseball. Part of the appeal of this film was the development of the character from a transient Army family to adulthood with his personal dreams put aside again and again. Dennis Quaid was excellent as Jim Morris - extremely believable in this role. Rachel Griffiths was also very believable as his wife. The scenes involving the Morris family with 3 young children were very natural. Not many films would show Dad taking 3 young children with him to Baseball tryouts! The appeal of this story is that it reminds us all that with determination and a family's support an individual's dreams can come true.  "},{"Title":"Big League","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I thought that The Rookie was a great movie, proof that Hollywood and Disney actually CAN make decent, yet interesting, movies without a bunch of foul language and implicit scenes.Dennis Quaid was convincing as an aging, yet talented pitcher, who upon a bet with his baseball team (the Owls), tries to get into professional playing.  He finds that his fast ball is around 98 mph, faster than when he was younger.I think that this movie leaves one with the thought that age does not have to dictate the ending of young hopes and dreams.  That is a good thing.  I rate this movie with an A. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated family entertainment.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" In this day and age, a G-rated film is specifically a children's movie- replete with cute, worldly children, cute talking animals, cute talking aliens, and cute computer animation. The Rookie is also rated G, but you'd never know it from its sophisticated script and direction. This is a family friendly autobiography about real people who experience- among other things- divorce, father-son dysfunction, heartbreak, and fulfilling your dream. Those who want to whine about the sentimental edge of the story don't realize that the film is actually more straightforward than usual and hasn't been Disneyfied in any way. (This reveals a sad commentary on how cynical we've become about sentiment in general.) Rookie's director John Lee Hancock comments on this same phenomenon on the DVD's bonus documentary; while his film has none of the typical overly-cute trappings of a G-rated film, the MPAA rated it as such anyway. It's so smart and witty that it can even spotlight a corps of baseball playing teenagers (these are the film's best scenes) who are more mature and subdued than in most films of this genre. I think it is a winning, sublime, magical little film that can bring a smile to just about anyone's face. "}{"Title":"Wonderful story of making your dreams a reality...","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Disney has hit another home run!  I thought this movie was a wonderful illustration of how hard work, determination, and drive can make your dreams come true when you think you're down and out.  A wonderful story for the whole family it also explores the hardships on his family when he travels during the baseball season.  Must see! "},{"Title":"Great acting, great story, but","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  It had great acting, a great story, but wasn't really directed great.  It was kind of boring, but at some points, very entertaining.  It wasn't bland, but it was slow moving.  Baseball fans may eat this up, though.  Worth watching. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Can do without the kid","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  It was a pretty good story, but does Disney have to have a kid ruining the aspect of the story in every film they make, excluding animation?  I like baseball and it was a good plot. But seriously, lose the kid. "},{"Title":"Great story, but that kid drove me nuts!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The story was inspiring, but the whole Disney aspect with Jim Morris's kid just drove me nuts!  I'm not sure their has been a more annoying kid in movie history!  But like I said, a truly inspiring story, Quaid did a fairly good job, it would have been nice to have seen more interaction of the players on the Devil Rays and their reaction to him.   "},{"Title":"2 for the price of 1","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Following Disney's purest tradition, The Rookie tells a story of hope and believing in yourself.This film is actually a two-in-one combo. The first half is the story of the bad (baseball) team that, through some hard work and inspiration from their coach, come all the way from behind to win the championship. This movie we have seen tons of times (Hardball, Mighty Ducks, Little Giants, etc, etc.). There are very few references to the Jimmy Morris tale during this first half.The second half is all about Jimmy Morris and his struggle to pursue a long lost dream become a major league baseball player. He is driven to gain self-confidence, hope and ultimately courage to take a shot at his dream; even when he's old enough to be retiring from instead of entering professional baseball. On the other hand, he has a family to take care of and a decent job he would be turning down to go after a potential lost cause.All in all I think this movie is a story of courage. It takes lots of it to go after something you forgot you wanted more than anything; that and a very supporting family. The fact that this is a true story makes this point even more significant.The movie itself may seem a little bit too long for it's purpose, specially the first half which didn't need so much detail, but it takes its message across well enough. "},{"Title":"Home Run !","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Possible spoilers ahead, drive carefully.Another in a long line of inspirational sports success stories, presented in broad strokes and succeeding on various levels. What sets The Rookie apart from other run-of-the-mill sports movies is Dennis Quaid's somewhat muted but appealing performance and the fact that the climax is not about winning the big game. So many other sports movies always result in the team making it to that big game and then its over, with Rudy being a notable exception and make no mistake, The Rookie does share a common theme with Rudy in that its about perseverance and not so much about winning the world series/super bowl/championship.No one is really allowed to stretch themselves dramatically here, yet the payoff is still worth the ride. The director and screenwriter strike a fine balance by finding the right tone that befits Jim Morris' very personal and triumphant story. I believe The Rookie will hold up over time and can be mentioned in the ranks of Hoosiers and Rudy as fine sports-inspired tales of making it.Now that covers Football, Basketball and Baseball....I wonder how many screenwriters out there right now are working on a Hockey version ? "},{"Title":"If you don't get a teary-eyed when...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Jim Morris (Dennis Quaid) finds he is on his way to the bigs..you have not lived long enough to have had a lifetime dream.  Maybe it's because I'm older now and a lot more sentimental than in my youth but this film brought joyful tears as Morris reached his dream.  My teenage daughter (and baseball fan as well) ALSO loved this film so perhaps it's not just me.  It's as American as you can get baseball, underdog, and surmounting the odds.  So what if he pitched only parts of two seasons, only a few innings altogether...the man made it to the majors!  If this had been a fiction story like The Natural, I would have thought it OK but, the tears come from knowing this was a true story, about real people.  It's a lot tougher to get it right on real people and I applaud the film makers of The Rookie for being on target.  It's in good stead with the Ruth, Gehrig, Alexander, Stratton, Piersal, etc. films.  We need MORE uplifting, hopeful films like this! "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  What a pleasant piece of filmmaking! I used to be a baseball fan as a child but have not followed the sport in years. Yet this film touched me in many ways and will do the same for baseball fans as well as non sports fans. I must admit that I grumbled when I saw the G rating but am so glad that there is such high caliber entertainment suitable for all ages. Don't miss this film!   "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE TODAY!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wow!In a word that's what I can say about this movie...wow!  It is a tremendous and truly inspiring movie that has put some wind back in my sails.  I actually rented this on a Wednesday night because I was bored and feeling a bit blue and so I figured...why not take a trip to the local video rental store?  Getting a movie might help me get my mind off of my troubles and cares...at least for a bit.Well anyway I looked around at the usual stuff on the new-release shelves and found nothing but senseless violence, mindless sex, and among other things, movies that can only truly be classified as tremendous wastes of time and money (coughAdam Sandler and Tom Greencough).  Then as I was coming to the end of the shelves I saw the movie The Rookie and I remember hearing some good stuff about it and so, on a whim, I rented it.As it turns out, I could not have made a better rental that night.  This movie is funny, touching, and inspiring all at the same time.  Top marks go to Dennis Quaid for his outstanding and thought-provoking performance. Although the movie is not fast-paced it does manage to keep your attention quite well with its intriguing performances and it's catchy soundtrack. Besides, you need to have an extreme case of ADHD to not be able to sit through this movie and enjoy it.)Whether you're bored on a Wednesday night and are are looking for a distraction or whether you want some first-class entertainment that is actually GOOD and will leave you with a smile on your face and a warm feeling in your heart, go see this movie.  You will not regret doing so! I'd give it an 11 if I could but I had to settle for giving it a 10). "},{"Title":"Inspirational human interest story","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  As someone who loves films and baseball, this film was a mixed bag for me.  As a human interest story it is excellent, but as a baseball story it is somewhat of a disappointment.  It is a very upbeat tale of Jim Morris (Dennis Quaid), a high school science teacher who rediscovers his fastball at the age of 35 and tries out for the major leagues.  The story mixes together his personal quest and that of the high school baseball team he coaches, both of which overcome incredible odds to achieve near impossible feats.As a baseball story, Jim Morris is really nothing more than an interesting footnote in baseball history.  There are far more compelling baseball stories to be told, like Tommy John who came back from reconstructive surgery to pitch another 14 seasons (that were some of his best), or Jim Abbott who was born without a right hand and pitched in the major leagues for ten years, pitching a no hitter against Cleveland in 1993.  Morris only played for Tampa Bay for parts of two seasons, pitching a total of 15 innings with a 4.80 ERA and almost as many walks as strikeouts.  Still, it is pretty inspirational that he made it to the majors at all given his age.This film plays well on Main Street, where regular folks are reminded of the faded fantasies of their youth.  It strikes a chord because to root for Morris is to root for their long abandoned dreams.  Director John Lee Hancock does a fine job of bringing out the best in the human story, although the sports components are marginal.There are just too many instances of unrealistic baseball in this film.  For instance, Morris is repeatedly shown throwing as hard as he can with absolutely no warm-up.  Any little leaguer can tell you that you will blow out your arm if you do that.  This is especially unrealistic given the fact that Morris had surgery on that shoulder when he was younger.  Unless he was plain stupid, he would warm up before he attempted to throw flat out. As an athlete, Quaid is not terribly convincing, with pitching mechanics that are far short of professional caliber.  Kevin Costner was much more credible in `For Love of the Game', though that film lacked the story of this one.From an acting perspective Dennis Quaid is marvelous in the lead.  This is one of the best performances of his career.  He is convincing as the high school coach pushing his kids to reach for their dreams and maximize their potential.  His chemistry with the young cast is terrific.  However, in the pursuit of his own dream, he is even better.  This is a complex and nuanced performance showing Morris as filled with desire and self doubt.  Quaid's portrayal of his determination in the face of his own insecurity is phenomenally insightful and compelling.  Rachel Griffiths and Brian Cox give splendid performances and Morris' wife and father.This is a wonderful feel-good film that is great for the whole family.  I've been a little hard on it because I'm a long time baseball fanatic, but the human interest story is so well done and Quaid's performance so compelling that I have to give it at least an 8/10.  This is a film that everyone can enjoy, regardless of whether you love sports. "}{"Title":"Touching story about making your dreams come true.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I was expecting a lot when I watched this film, and I was not disappointed. I typically do not like the drama genre, but this one was a cut above the rest.I absolutely loved Dennis Quaid in this one, and his supporting cast was great, especially the little kid that plays his son, Hunter.  That kid is positively adorable. "},{"Title":"An informative look at someone's life and the desire to achieve one's goals","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The first time I saw The Rookie I thought it was too much about the man's life and not enough about baseball. I completely missed the point. The next time I saw the movie, it dawned on me that it is Jim Morris' life that makes the story of a 35 year old high school teacher turned MLB rookie so fascinating. Every emotion in the movie feels so real. The casting is perfect. Dennis Quaid plays Jim Morris accurately, giving off a real sense of concern for his family as he struggles to achieve his dream. My favorite part of the movie is the cinematography and the score. Every scene is shot masterfully, with pleasing backgrounds and solid focus on the action in the foreground. The score is also impressive. The music fits the story perfectly. I don't know how I could appreciate The Rookie any more than I already do now. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  With `The Straight Story' and now `The Rookie', the Walt Disney Company is quietly putting together a series of quality films that transcend any expectations associated with the company while remaining wholesome, astute and committed. They're doing this by pairing talented filmmakers and actors with uncommon but inspiring true stories that have natural, universal conflicts built into them and the results are intelligent and moving. In this case, John Lee Hancock directs a beautifully convincing Dennis Quaid as Jim Morris, the Texas high school baseball coach who reached the major leagues in his late thirties. Hancock perfectly combines the simplicity of small town Texas life with the mythic purity of baseball and manages, almost innocently it would seem, to make every cliché seem fresh and believable; he has faith in the material (the well-thought screenplay is by Mike Rich) and in the audience's ability to see past the aspects of the plot that they've visited before. This applies all the way down to the typical strained father-son relationship sports films usually center on using brief but incisive dialogue and the passage of time, Morris and his Navy father (Brian Cox) quietly spar with each other, struggling to achieve détente and the payoff is heartfelt and gratifying. The understated Quaid is a mixture of childish awe at his baseball prowess and grownup regret as he despairs over not following his dream--it's a performance that should probably ring true in most adults and it's his most affecting since `Breaking Away'. Hancock is greatly assisted by his cinematographer, John Schwartzman, who cuts through the Texas dust to provide a straightforward visual sharpness (in contrast to Freddie Francis' offbeat Midwest images in `The Straight Story'); and the inimitable Carter Burwell, whose hushed score is poignant and always appropriate. An outstanding movie, one that should have no difficulty standing the test of time.      "},{"Title":"I liked the stories of the youngsters.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I viewed the DVD rental of this wholesome, lengthy film not in one sitting but many.  Stopping the film was a welcome relief; I am not a baseball fan. As a basketball fan, I could watch hours and hours of Hoosiers and the Duke Blue Devils -- so I guess that was part of my negativity toward The Rookie.  I really, really liked the storylines dealing with young Jimmy (Trevor Morgan) and Hunter, and I liked the actors playing those roles. So to me a film dedicated to these relationships, contrasting and comparing, would be most favorable.  The scenes with the struggling Owls were great. This depiction as a mere chronology of events was too simple and rather humdrum.  Dennis Quaid was excellent in Frequency, but in this film he was too old, too grizzled.  And those guys collecting somebody's and anybody's hair from the barber shop floor and then sprinkling (and still touching) the hair onto the field's surround - ugh!  I stopped snacking on my cheddar cheese Combos at those points.  A major plus for this film is that the viewer does not mind a family member passing through the room; no embarrassing scenes are part of this.  The true story that is included in the DVD is interesting, but what happened to the father and why was he sent to that tiny 1930-ish town to recruit?  And why did they stay?  I read that Morris is now a motivational speaker; does he ever meet up with the Rudy fella. Wow -- talk about making the most of a situation!  I'll grade The Rookie B-minus  try harder next time. "},{"Title":"Not bad and surprisingly too.  But feels to much like Field of Dreams.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  (Spoilers??)Now I'm not saying that it means we've got people running out of cornfields.  But the setup is almost the same.  Now of course since this is a true story.... I can't say that the movie is based off FOD, but perhaps the star was inspired by Field of Dreams and acted accordingly.Now ignoring that silly point, I loved this movie.  The Texas scenes are a bit sluggish, but the rest of the movie makes up for it.  It could be said that it's a happy and joyful tear-jerker.  So I would highly recommend this film.  I keep telling myself.... Meg Ryan left this guy?  Was she out of her mind?   Which is why I've lost some respect for Meg and gained some for Dennis.The dvd is lacking a movie trailer. (  and isn't too fancy. 9/10Quality 9/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie about chasing your dreams.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie.  It had a sense of family importance as well as the importance of chasing your dreams.  Dennis Quaid is great in this, but the show is stolen by the boy that plays his son.  Definitely a must see movie!!! "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is a great film that you can enjoy with your whole family. I don't usually get an opportunity to watch movies with my children and everybody enjoys it.  Baseball fans and college or minor league players will really like this movie. The acting is OK, not the best. Dennis Quaid does a decent job, but I don't really like his movies much. This is a very fast moving movie and may be difficult to keep up with. They put ALOT of stuff into a 2 hour movie. I love the story especially because it's a true one.  Enjoy another film from Disney. "},{"Title":"It's riddled with cliches... so why is it so good?","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  On the face of it this movie should have a boat-load of problems.  It's long (runtime 127 minutes).  It's a potentially unweildy two movies in one--the story of a team in a town with no baseball becoming a winning team, and the story of Jim Morris' amazing rise to the Major Leagues at the age of 35. It contains many long sequences that are very... pastoral... to put the best face on them (and maybe they actually deserve that treatment--they are slow, but beautiful).  It's a Disney movie--usually the kiss of death towards any hope of true depth.  It's a based on a true story movie, with some definite revisionist history in it.And that's just the start of it.  The movie contains more cliches and stereotypes than you can shake a stick at.  A boy with a stern father who doesn't understand his son's impractical love of baseball.  A main character who is haunted by demons and has to overcome them.  An beleagered understanding wife, but with undercurrents that marital discord is just waiting in the wings.  The local team that doesn't have a chance to win, but they do.  I could go on with the list for much longer.But The Rookie is more than the sum of its parts.First there is a performance from Dennis Quaid that is probably the best of his career.  It's sensitive.  It's longing.  His version of Jim Morris is one of those rare portrayals of a quiet man, with much more going on behind his eyes than in front of them.  If you loved Quaid in Frequency, it's a similar type of performance, but maybe a bit better.Quaid is much older than Morris really was at the time, but it gives Morris a lived in look which only helps.  Quaid is a man who is rarely given a chance to act--for real I mean--in most of the movies which come his way, and somehow things just fell into place this time.But the movie works for other reasons as well.  It has the mish-mash of cliches, but it never revels or wallows in them.  At most they are bricks and not mortar---elements used to build a better whole, but the filmmakers weren't foolish enough to use weak glue to hold it all together.The glue is that the film loves and respects its subject matter.  It's not a half-assed attempt which uses baseball as a plot device for another story--it's about baseball.  It's also about Morris, and his wife, and his Dad, and his Mom, and his team, and his town, but baseball is the thread which links them all.  Jim Morris is a true believer--obsessed with the game--and so is this film, in a good way.All of the cliches--the bricks--and held solid in this foundation.  As are they by Quaid's performance.  Rachel Griffiths, also is good--in a role brief enough that she could have just phoned it in--but she doesn't.Give it a shot.Oh... and its even got a decent soundtrack, if you aren't offended by older folk-like country, as opposed to the newer garbage they crank out these days. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, Cliched and a waste of 2 hours.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Basically this movie is a rehash of many other stories all mashed together. The cliches are so blatant and the storylines so worn out. Here's some of the storylines, lets see if you've seen them before 1)The little team that could 2)The dad that didn't follow his own dreams, and won't let the son follow his. 3)Old timer gets a new chance 4)Does The Wife support this dream or will family matters get in the way?And how about those cliches? Littlest kid speaks the wisest, the team that beat them badly at the beginning of the season is the team that stands in the way of a championship at the end, 3 old guys that hang out at a store playing cards and dispensing wisdom.... At one point they actually had the manager of the Minor league team sitting in his office *** Tying fly fishing lures under a magnafying glass!!! ***I'm surprised it's getting such a high (7.5) rating here on IMDB. You guys should see through this stuff by now.2/10 and it's only getting that much because I love Rachel Griffiths. "},{"Title":"Yech","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Boy was I disappointed in this movie!  Cliches, cliches, and more cliches.  What a screenplay it could have...and should have...been since it actually was a dream come true for Jim Morris.  My biggest complaint is how joyless Quaid's Morris was.  I mean, come on!  It was evidently written to make Morris look like he was not having any fun whatsoever and that ruined the movie for me.  Considering how likeable Quaid always seems with his infectious grin, this role of a sad-sack was a real downer.There are a lot of great movies out there about baseball and how grown men are thrilled to be playing a young man's game.  Watch them again and don't bother with this one! Even The Perfect Game was better than The Rookie....which shows you how much I didn't like this one! "}{"Title":"A grand slam of entertainment!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  About halfway through my dvd of The Rookie I asked myself why Hollywood doesn't make more pictures like this.  It seems this type of movie only comes along once a year, if that.  There is an over-abundance of crap out there from XXX to the latest from m. night whatever the hell his name is and a good solid film that entertains all ages is just so rare.The Rookie is a wonderful film that tugs at the heartstrings of children and adults alike.  Dennis Quaid is wonderful and believable as a major league picture, husband, and father.  While he dominates the screen the supporting cast is great as well.  On top of that, some fantastic songs compliments the entire package.This is one great movie and hopefully Hollywood gets the hint and produces more movies like this instead of phoning in more third rate sequels, teen movies, and the like.  This movie is right up there with Field of Dreams. Rent the Rookie, you won't be dissapointed!  "},{"Title":"A special moment.....","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Although the cinematography and acting are not exactly top-notch, this movie has become one of my all-time favorites.....due to one scene.Jim Morris calls home to tell his wife he's been called up to the big league. He asks her, Will you tell everybody? She responds, Yeah, but there's one you have to tell first., referring to Jim Morris' son, who has idolized his father regarding baseball.I'm a 38-year-old, self-described tough-guy with a 3-year-old son. That statement was enough to get me teary. Then, the camera switches to Jim and he's about to lose it, too. That put me over the edge. I sobbed.Thank you, Mr. Director, for creating a scene which touched my heart.  "},{"Title":"A positive review of a very upbeat and rewarding film.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I took my Grandchildren to see this movie,and was happy to see that an enjoyable family movie can still be made.  There was no profanity, violence or sex, and yet I enjoyed it as much as the children, if not more.  Dennis Quaid was very convincing as a baseball pitcher, and the rest of the cast were great, also.  I have been a baseball fan for a great many years, (a former Brooklyn Dodger fan), so I enjoyed the baseball scenes as well as the scenes depicting the difficulties of providing for and raising a family while not giving up a dream.  We all left the theater feeling good, which is not always the case. "},{"Title":"The Rookie story from MLB.Com","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Hollywood, CA -- Here's an interesting idea for a movie A 35-year-old high school science teacher and baseball coach from West Texas tries out for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and, less than four months later, is pitching in the Major Leagues.Yup, pure Hollywood fiction. Sounds like the kind of fantasy that Disney, the same studio that did the remake of Angels in the Outfield in 1994, would come up with.Well, the story does come to you courtesy of Disney, only this time the fantasy is reality. It is the true story of Jim Morris and his amazing odyssey from the faculty lounge to the Major Leagues in The Rookie.In the film, Dennis Quaid plays Morris, the former Major League prospect turned high school baseball coach in Big Lake, Texas, who in 1999 makes a deal with his players. If they win the divisional championship, he in return would try out for a Major League team. Of course, they win, forcing Morris to try out for the Devil Rays. And to the surprise of everyone, including himself, he ends up on the fast track to the big leagues with a consistent 98-mph fastball.I just found it inspirational, said Quaid. If it was a piece of fiction I don't think I would have done it. It's just too unbelievable. He was teaching high school science in May in some little town in Big Lake, Texas, and in September he's standing on the pitching mound in a Major League ballpark fulfilling his dream. You couldn't be more storybook about it.Morris, now 38, who retired from baseball after appearing in 16 games with the Devil Rays in 2000, says the events of 1999 changed the direction of his life.I think it opened my eyes to second chances, he said. I'm trying to teach my kids in high school a lesson and they end up teaching me a lesson and that in itself is a second chance. Kids see themselves helping an adult and I think that inspires them. I never would have tried to play baseball again if it weren't for them. I'd been out of the game for 10 1/2 years.While pitching for the Devil Rays' Triple-A affiliate in Durham, NC, Morris got a call from Mark Ciardi, an aspiring film producer who happened to be a former teammate of Morris' when the two played together in the Milwaukee Brewers' farm system in the mid 1980s. Ciardi and his partner, Gordon Gray, convinced Morris that his story would make a wonderful feature film and immediately set up a meeting with Disney.With Mike Rich and John Lee Hancock on board as writer and director, the filmmakers had to find the right man to play Morris. They chose Quaid, who has played football stars in the films Everybody's All American and Any Given Sunday and has starred in several other had a string of both critical a commercial hits including Breaking Away, The Right Stuff and, more recently, Traffic.Quaid, who grew up in Houston and says that the old Colt 45's of Bob Aspromonte, Rusty Staub and Jimmy Wynn were his boyhood idols, had not picked up a baseball in nearly 30 years.I hadn't played baseball since I was in Little League, so it was quite a challenge, said Quaid. I was always a baseball fan, but I hadn't played in years. Getting the pitching motion down was the most important thing. I didn't want to look like I threw like an actress.So the producers hired former Dodger and Pirate reliever Jim Gott to work with Quaid.We had the luxury of three months before we started shooting, said Quaid. Jim would come over to my house and we'd throw balls in the front yard, we'd go over to Dodger Stadium once a week and throw over there. That was very exciting and we would just work at getting the pitching motion down.Gott says the 46-year-old actor was a very good student.We just went through the ritual of what a pitcher goes through, said Gott. An offseason training program is what I tried to work with him on. A throwing program of three to five days. Three days in the beginning. We just began to work on his mechanics. Dennis is an athlete already, I think he has more big league time with his football movies and now his baseball movie than I ever did in the big leagues. Here's a guy who's a huge star, who takes his craft seriously, but he loves the athletic side of things and he was able to adapt to whatever training program we had for him right off the bat.When he wasn't throwing, Gott had Quaid study videotape of a baseball legend.I gave Dennis a tape of Sandy Koufax pitching in the seventh game of the 1965 World Series against the Minnesota Twins, said Gott. I felt he should learn from the best and Sandy helped me a lot in my career with the Dodgers. Dennis was always looking for the finer points of what looked right and what seemed right. I felt being a lefty and playing a power pitcher like Jim Morris and Sandy being the best lefty power pitcher ever, that this is a tape he should see and he loved it.The entire process gave Quaid a deeper understanding of the game.I now have a better appreciation for pitchers, said Quaid. I've always been a baseball fan, but now I can watch a game with a little different point of view having delved just a little bit into Jim's world.Morris was impressed with Quaid's work as an actor and a pitcher.He threw everyday, said Morris. He got to the point as a pitcher, as pitchers do, before he let the ball go, he knew if the pitch was bad or not -- he was amazing. He did a lot of work.Morris is also pleased with the way his life is portrayed on film.I'm just so happy with the way it turned out, said Morris. I actually got to see a finished product about three weeks ago in Nashville with the religious broadcaster's convention and they didn't know I was in the theatre until it was over and I had to dry my eyes before I could get up and talk to them.Quaid says The Rookie, rated G, is much more than just a baseball film.It's about second chances in life, said the actor. Second chances in our dreams, second chances in our relationships in life and I think that's how somebody who is not even a baseball fan can relate to the film.Morris, who now works as a motivational speaker and volunteer baseball coach in Dallas, hopes that people everywhere can be inspired by his story.Baseball just happened to be my dream, said Morris. I think other people can put their dreams into my life because, let's face it, I'm just an ordinary person, I just got to do something that I wanted to do my entire life and I think other people can see themselves in that and see themselves accomplishing a lot.Ben Platt covers both Hollywood and the Dodgers for MLB.com. This story was not subject to the approval of Major League Baseball or its clubs. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I remember first hearing about this guy Jimmy Morris on the radio one morning on the way to work and being impressed with his story of beating the odds.  This has been the only time I've ever heard this station talk about Baseball, so that made realize even more that this is a landmark story. After hearing that, I knew I had to see this movie upon hearing that it was coming out and it did indeed deliver its message with a line drive.  The success of the movie is founded upon its emotions that take you in and make you want to get out and fervently pursue your life's ambitions.  I'm not a baseball fan, but this is more a life-story than a baseball story, so as long as life applies to you this is a must see. "},{"Title":"A well-made G-rated movie for adults","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  There has been a trend the last few years that I like in the film world.  With films like Buena Vista Social Club and The Straight Story, there has been a renaissance of G-rated films aimed at adult audiences--something unheard of since Stanley Kubrick's 2001.  Now Disney--the 400lb gorilla of G-rated films--throws it's hat into the ring with this film that should resonate with anyone over 30 who feels life has passed them by (count the author of this review).Jimmy Morris only has one dream as a kid, and that's to pitch in the major leagues.  Unfortunately he has 3 major stumbling blocks.  First, his father thins baseball is silly.  Second, the Navy sends his dad out to west Texas--where football is king & baseball ranks slightly below sumo wrestling in popularity.  Third, as a minor leaguer, he injures his shoulder & is no longer able to pitch--or so he thinks.The film catches up with him as a 40-year-old high school physics teacher & varsity baseball coach.  He occasionally yearns for the glory he never had, but is mostly satisfied to be resigned to his fate.  It's not all that bad, after all.  He's got a beautiful wife and 3 great kids, and he's on the verge of a higher-paying job in Ft Worth.  But he has a problem  his team is unmotivated & under-talented.  They see him as an example of someone who is afraid to try.  So they make a deal with him  if they make the state tournament, Jimmy will try out for the pros again.  And then we all find out that Jimmy can throw in the upper 90's, something he couldn't do in his playing days.  And guess what?  A team is interested.All this would seem trite & cliche except that it really happened.  Jimmy Morris was the star pitcher for the Florida Marlins for the first two years of their existence.One can quibble with certain things about the film.  Why do they need the sound effects for Jimmy's pitches?  Why was the film set today instead of ten years ago when it actually happened?  Why the Devil Rays instead of the Marlins?  Aren't there just too many lush green hills for west Texas? (the film was made in my home town of Round Rock, which is in the hilly green central part of Texas)However, the positives far outweigh the negatives.  The acting--especially Dennis Quaid and Rachel Griffiths--is superb.  And the dialogue sounds natural, even without the mildest of swear words (the word damn is in a song that plays in the background and that's it).  And the story itself is the fantasy of everyone over the age of 30 who wonders what if?  When I think of Jimmy Morris, I am reminded of Grandma Moses, Raymond Chandler, Danny Aiello--people who waited until middle age or later to find their true calling and succeeded on a grand scale.  And this film gives me hope that someday--who knows?--I could be the king of heavy metal starting when I'm forty or fifty.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Acting","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Dennis Quaid in a great part, and with a wonderful supporting cast. Jay Hernandez shows again what a good actor he is. A great movie for everyone. Hopefully they'll make more like that. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable family film for baseball fans","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie was very good, a nice job from the cast in telling the true story of Jimmy Ray, who made the relief pitching squad of the Tampa Devil Rays as a rookie in his mid 30's. The young men who appear as his high school team he coaches all portrayed their parts well. Dennis Quaid is a fine actor who sadly does not get much in the way of lead roles in theatrical films these days. A G rated film like The Rookie is proof that Hollywood can make a good family film-inoffensive to no one.  Mr. Quaid also shows he should be given more roles in the movies, no one would rate him up there with some of the current big names-but he should be. Check this film out for good old entertainment the way Hollywood used to make them.MMcC "},{"Title":"Great movie for Kids, kinda predictable though","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie has some great actors, especially Quaid who is to thank for the most this movie offers. It mostly offers a nice (true) story about the dream of a guy, who wanted to play Baseball and the way he gets to.Nevertheless it is really predictable. When you've seen the first, lets say 10 minutes, you can tell the rest of the the movie. Since it it based on a true story they were bound to the real events, but it is a movie for kids no matter how you look at it. And for kids it is great!There is another point This movie shows you a World where everything works out, nothing goes wrong, nothing fails. It's a Safe place, and that's what (at least some) movies should be A safe place you can run to when your own world isn't that whole anymore... "},{"Title":"Great Story for the whole family","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  One of the best films of the year so far. Dennis Quaid shines in a made-to-order film that the whole family can enjoy. Also fun to see the Durham Bulls back in action. "}{"Title":"My short comment on The Rookie","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A good movie for those who like laid back ideal movies. A movie that people could relate to and watch with their children. I enjoyed it because it gave me something to think about. Dreams can come true and goals can be accomplished. It's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Refreshing to have a family movie!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Finally a movie that you don't have to be embarrassed to take your family to.  Just a comfortable plot that you can sit back and enjoy. It is nice to see a person realize his dream, and can succeed if you keep you faith in yourself.  "},{"Title":"One of the top 3 sports movies - ever!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  First of all, Dennis Quaid deserves an Oscar nomination for this, hands down!  In his past roles, he's played kind of a cocky, arrogant guy who you kind of love, but here he plays a REAL HUMAN BEING you simply adore!  Best performance of his life!  The movie is excellent in all aspects of the game.  While a 2 hour 20 minute running time can be long for some films, this one just carries you along effortlessly. Don't fall for any review of this film that may say it is predictable.  Of course it is!  It's a true story you may know of already.  The guy's dream comes true.  He makes it to the major leagues!  The key is HOW he does it and what it takes to get there.  All I can say is  ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Uplifting Without The Sap","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie was not your usual 'Dreams come true movie,' it was more realistic than most. Being based on a true story, it was just that, true. It was never over the top, it was genuine. The connections between the characters (father-son x 2, husband-wife, father-children, coach-players) were not nostalgic or terribly up-lifting, they were simply realistic. Raw power is the end result of a movie that's story is up-lifting but its screenplay is not. Because all it does is tell a good story, you go away with a smile on your face, nothing else. Do not judge this movie for not being deep enough, judge it as a simple story with a simple moral. Lose yourself in The Rookie and you will be glad.  "},{"Title":"Has the feeling of a worn out, old baseball glove","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This film has a lame soundtrack, a silly plot, and the sort of preprogrammed ending that feels contrived.  Still, it is the kind of movie that you walk away from feeling as if it somehow summed up everything important in the world, as if baseball really were everything that mattered.  Can we forgive the film's simplistic story in light of the multitude of subtleties that are left unspoken? I believe we can.  This isn't the sort of tearjerker that will traumatize you for the rest of the evening.  This movie is just like a game of baseball on a balmy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie has to be the greatest movie of 2002 up to date.  This movie was absolutely wonderful.  Sure it's a Disney movie but this one is great. Dennis Quaid portrays Jim Morris, a High School science teacher and the coach of the school baseball team whose dream since he was a kid was to be a professional baseball player.  His team makes a bet with him that if they win the district, he tries out for Major League Baseball.  He agrees to the bet and the rest of the movie is history.  If you know the true life story of Jimmy Morris than you would probably know what happens during the movie. I won't spoil it for you by telling you what happens.The performances were extremely well.  Dennis quaid is the heart of the story.  Every time he is in it is absolutely great.  Rachel Griffiths, who portrays Lorri Morris, is also very good.  Angus T. Jones plays Jim and Lorri's son, Hunter.  His performance was good enough and I think he is supposed to be a comic relief.  He made smile a few times.  Brian Cox and Beth Grant are very well and I enjoyed them through the entire movie.  The actors who play Jim Morris's baseball team, such as Jay Hernandez and Rick Gonzalez, are cool and probably the best actors to portray the players. Trevor Morgan is good playing young Jim Morris but he wasn't onscreen long enough to show Jim's childhood.Overall this movie is good for the entire family and anyone who knows the story of Jim Morris or is a fan of baseball, I definitely suggest this movie.  Rating 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I looked up the stats","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  After watching The Rookie, I was left wondering about Jim Morris' stats. Here's what I found. He was called up at the age of 35 in 1999 and pitched in five games and 4.2 innings. He had 3 strikeouts (two more after the  Royce Clayton whiff in the movie). He had an ERA of 5.79. In 2000, he pitched in 16 games and 10.1 innings. He struck out 10 and had a 4.36 ERA. He had no W-L or saves in his brief career. Those stats weren't that bad so I would also like to know if an arm injury ended his career in 2000. A couple of other things I was wondering about How much money did he make and did he go back into coaching and teaching after the flirt with fame? Other questions How did the Owls do the following season and if he went back into coaching did he return to the same school or take the Fort Worth offer?  "},{"Title":"If you love baseball, you'll love The Rookie","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A rare gem with no violence, no foul language, no blowing up of cars and buildings. Refreshing.  Better than The Natural, Bull Durham for one reason - a true story. "},{"Title":"A Good, Clean Family Film","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I saw this recently in the theaters. The main draw for me was the theme of baseball, but their was much more to the movie. The Rookie tells the story of a high school teacher, Jim Morris, who pursues his dream after the baseball team he coaches issues him with a challenge to try out for a major league team if they win their division title. Dennis Quaid did a wonderful job as Jim Morris.  He really breathed life into the role. The story was very good in showing the theme of making choices and how those choices affect our lives and the individuals around us. A particularly memorable scene is when his wife first learns of his attempts to get back into baseball. You would expect his wife to initially be supportive of him because it is something he really wants to do, but there is an expression of mixed emotions as she honestly expresses her real feelings on his attempt at trying to get into the majors in his late thirties. She isn't particularly supportive and prefers he not do it in the beginning. The film will leave you with a feel good attitude after you watch it, and you do not necessarily have to enjoy baseball to enjoy the film. Whether you see it in theaters or wait until home video please make sure you make an effort to see this film.  "},{"Title":"simplistic, but great!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Right, so there isn't a whole lot of conflict, and what there is is fairly shallow.  So what?  It's a G movie, and a darn good one at that.  The kids are ADORABLE.  The baseball is fun.  It's generic, but it hits the warm, fuzzy spot.  Dennis Quaid is cool.  "}{"Title":"Finally an easy watching movie!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This Quaid movie was so refreshing, although it is a true story Hollywood did not add swearing or sexual inuendos. A matter of fact there was not one single negative inside this movie. The story line was real so you cannot change that, it was somewhat slow on occasions but actually kept you attached. I really enjoyed this movie for all reasons. I laughed, I cried and cheered. This was a positivley feel good movie! Not all kids will be able to sit through The Rookie but hopefully they will, it is about heros and children and working to obtain your goals, I wish they would show this movie as a required content in school. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Very Rookie-level film making","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting a sweet, sentimental, feel good movie that lived up the great reviews it's been getting. Instead, what I got was a painfully mediocre movie with absolutely nothing new to offer. This movie is nothing more than a recycled story line from every other movie in its genre, and it fails to offer anything substantially different from any of them.Meet Jim Morris (Dennis Quaid), a high school teacher/baseball coach who once had a dream of being in the major leagues. However, somewhere down the line, he got an arm injury and settled for a small town family life instead. One day, he shocks his high school baseball team by throwing a pitch that clocks in at 98 MPH. The kids then launch into a motivational speech, somewhere along the cliche lines of you always encourage us to chase our dreams, but you're not following your own! Bewildered by this shocking revelation, Morris decides to try out for pro baseball, if, and only if, the high school team gets into the district championship. Hmmm, I wonder what happens...My biggest fault with this movie (besides the fact that you know the entire story solely from the 1 minute trailer), is that it expects you to sympathize with the characters and feel what they're feeling, but it never takes the steps needed to form those connections. His few scenes with his wife are brief and distant, not showing us any real bond or chemistry between the two characters. The only one of his kids we somewhat get to know is his adoring 8-year-old son, who idolizes his dad's infatuation with baseball and wants to be just like him. Beyond that, we see no real connections between Morris and his family. They are simply props in the background while he chases his dreams.I would rate this movie a very generous 6/10. While it was not a terrible movie, it was certainly not ground breaking or impressive all the same. If you want to see a genuinely feel-good, excellent baseball movie, rent league of their own instead. "},{"Title":"Good baseball, family movie","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie is one of the better baseball movies of recent years, and even more exciting, suitable for all audiences--with the exception of people who hate baseball. It stays relatively true to the autobiography it is based on. With a G rating, it has no gratuitous foul language and nothing was added to the true story to make it warrant a more adult rating. Yet it is entertaining and touching, without being cloying. It touches more on the father-son relationships, and omits most of the husband-wife interactions from the book, so females (and males) who don't understand baseball and it's place in society may not appreciate the film.   "},{"Title":"Best baseball movie I've ever seen","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I'm also rather partial to 8 Men Out, the only other baseball movie that I like without reservations. Movies about baseball usually fall short, particularly in the way the baseball games themselves are portrayed. You have absurdly metaphorical, fairy tale games (The Natural), or unnecessarily exaggerated action (Bull Durham - I mean does the kid have to be so ridiculously wild?). This movie actually feels like the baseball I've played (though not as well) and watched.Make no mistake this is a Disney movie. It's a sentimental story. Thankfully it doesn't play the sentimentality in a sentimental way, avoiding that getting-hit-over-the-head lessons trap that so many Hollywood movies fall into. All the secondary characters are clearly drawn. And Dennis Quaid does first class work, making a multi-dimensional character that also serves the story quite clearly. A very satisfying flick. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wonder of wonders, a G Rated adult entertainment.  The Rookie, is a real baseball film, besting most others, in the genre, while presenting real characters, without resorting to foul language and crude gestures, that plague almost every motion picture, today.  What we get with The Rookie, is adult entertainment, in the truest sense.  An intelligent screenplay, with quiet, careful direction, and a thoughtful, almost mesmerizing performance, by Dennis Quaid. This movie is like a wonderful gift, that is slowly unwrapped before our eyes.  While it is rated G, the film's real, quiet tone, would probably not appeal to today's kids audience.  Sad, really, since this is the type of film, that I saw often, as a kid.  Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Wow. What a film. A MUST see","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I used to think that Field Of Dreams was the best baseball movie ever made, then For Love Of The Game. Those two have just been knocked down 1 notch each. The Rookie was fantastic not just for the baseball but for the wonderful acting and powerful story. Dennis Quaid was superb and I sincerely hope he gets a nod from the Academy for his portrayal of Jim Morris.Thank you Disney for the Film of the Year!! "},{"Title":"Great experience!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a welcome break from the salacious trash that has come spewing out of Hollywood in recent years. The baseball elements of the film are quite well done (Dennis Quaid actually looks like a real pitcher; although I wonder why he always pitches from the stretch), but the film is about much more than baseball. It is about relationships between families, across and within generations, and between coaches and players.  This is a great movie that should win awards but more importantly should strike a chord with REAL people. In that sense, it is similar to another recent Dennis Quaid movie, Frequency. (I highly recommend that one as well but not for small children.) The movie-going public that mindlessly purchases tickets to junk and then complains about how bad movies are should take the time to see this film. It will be a rewarding experience.        "},{"Title":"Great baseball film","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Many of my friends have heard me say I don't do sports movies. So why did I go to The Rookie? I gotta admit that Dennis Quaid brought me I can't resist his engaging grin. But that isn't why I'm writing a review. I went expecting a charming movie and got a lot more. Yes, it's charming. But there are many layers father-son relationships, husband-wife relationships, how people inspire and support each other, and seeking your dreams. Few of us are lucky enough to know what our dreams are, let alone see them come true. And here's a true story of someone that lucky. The characters are not one-dimensional, and the acting is fine and often subtle by both leads and supporting cast. One of my favorite moments is when the wife says go for it, and you see the dream fill Dennis Quaid's eyes, and you know the right decision was made. The film moves in loving slowness, letting us get to know the characters and to understand Jim Morris' love of baseball. My friend, as we were watching the credits said, for a film with not an unhappy moment in it, I sure cried a lot. So bring some kleenex if you're susceptible to tears of love and joy. If you liked The Natural or Field of Dreams, you should check this flick out. Did I say I didn't do sports movies? I guess I'll have to revise that and say except for good baseball. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie about Baseball and Life.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is a well made and well acted movie.  Baseball and the love for it, can get into your very soul.  Anyone who has ever played the game for any length of time and gained any proficiency in it, can identify with Jim Morris and his round about trip to the BIGS.  To walk into a Major league locker room for the firt time and see a jersey with your own name on it, has to be one of the few top highlights of life for a person who loves the game and its beauty and poetry.  The story is well told once it get started.  The beginning and ending with the fable of the nuns detracted from the real story being told.  Take that byline out and it is a 10.  Dennis Quaid is very believable as a ball player and the kids on the highschool team were very well typecast.  I got goosebumps many times throughout the movie.  It is a clean wholesome story that deserves to be told.  I would highly recommend it. My other favorite baseball movies are the all time best in my opinion, The Natural and of course Field of Dreams.  For the Love of The Game was a notch or two down.  The Rookie is definitely a first tier baseball and life movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about dreams and second chances","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie is one of the best family movies I've seen this year, but I can't get past the recent Hollywood trend of using adults made up to look like kids to play roles that are written for adolescents.  Could it be that real high school students aren't available to play roles in quality movies because they're busy making crass hyperbolic teen sex (or rather coming of age) movies? "}{"Title":"Scores a home run.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A bit cliche in the making, but the casting was superb.  Dennis Quaid did a great job of portraying an inspiring real-life hero, Jim Morris.  Rachel Griffiths was also excellent as his wife.  The contrasting father-son relationships were angst for the movie, but not thoroughly explored, especially Jim with his father.  However, there was a certain efficiency in character development in the movie that delineated each character in a few lines in fewer scenes.  These were not one dimensional people.  I am not a baseball fan, but I seem to like baseball movies.  Who can say why.  It's no Field of Dreams, but I enjoyed this movie, it's lack of explicit sex and violence especially!  Dear Hollywood, please make more like this one.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie worth the price of a ticket.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie was so well acted, you forgot you were watching a movie and really thought you knew these people.  What a fantastic story of dreams coming true, and how we can get our own personal strength from those we are trying to inspire.  This makes up for wasting my time and money watching Panic Room last week. "},{"Title":"Re-living my past","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for many reasons. The main one is that I was fortunate enough to play High School baseball for coach Morris. The characters all were played well, by the actors.  When I heard that there was a movie about this man I was somewhere in Europe. I could not believe it. I had to see it with my own eyes. It was all so real as I sat there watching. This movie is one of the best that I have seen, it was almost like that movie Tin Cup where he made a come back to the sport that he loved. I am not trying to write my life story here, but the year after I got out of school, I joined the United States Navy. This was without knowing coach's life story. I give the movie two thumbs up!!!!   "},{"Title":"An excellent baseball film","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A really fine piece of film making, and to add to the pleasure, it has NO offensive scenes or profanity, therefore making it just fine to take kids to see.  The acting was solid, the casting was excellent, and the plot is entertaining, considering it's a true story.  The guy really did make it to the Durham Bulls, then the Tampa Bay Devil Rays eventually. Thumbs up to this one.  May Hollywood produce many more like it! "},{"Title":"Thanks, Jack","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I hear we can all thank Jack, Dennis Quaid's son, for this film.  It seems he wanted to make something that his young son could go to, and the result is a lovely film that the whole family can enjoy, from grandpa to 4 year old.  In the audience that day were a lot of fathers and sons.  Wonderful, that they could share a movie experience that didn't involve rockets, aliens or animated figures.  Let's hope it starts a trend. "},{"Title":"Quite a pleasant surprise","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Although my 13 year old daughter considered it a bit schmaltzy nonetheless she admitted to liking it against her better judgement.  I'm an old cynic but I allowed myself to be carried away by the dream, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Dennis Quaid was excellent, made for the part.  And my husband and son?  They just loved it of course.  Much better than I expected. Nice cinemaphotography.  Reminded me of The Straight Story.  Nicely made, well written and good production values.  And what's wrong with going as a family to see a G occasionally? "},{"Title":"If you are or were a teacher you'll enjoy the Rookie more than the average person.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Go see this movie. It has just the right amount of character development for each of the cast, be it janitor or student. If you're a teacher you'll love the way another teacher, Jim Morris, reaches for his dream and gets to live it. Oh, good baseball action too. "},{"Title":"A rare gem, good story that you can take the kids to see...","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  A really fine movie. Good acting, good plot, fine directing.  And there is no profanity or gratuitous sex.  In other words its a grown up movie, with no objectionable material.  Take your 9 year old to see it with no qualms. Good movie for kids, but adults will enjoy this movie too.Quaid is really believable and the chick who plays his wife is very credible.  Three cheers for The Rookie.  BATTER UP! "},{"Title":"Nice movie, great story.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This was a nice movie; it tells a great story and treats the game with appropriate reverence.One interesting touch was the marquis on the movie theater in Big Lake, Texas when young Jimmy Morrison moved there with his family.  The film playing was Bang the Drum Slowly, the early 1970's Robert DeNiro movie about a third string catcher.The movie is a little slow, but then so are most baseball games! "},{"Title":"Utterly predictable, entirely enjoyable","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I had low expectations for this movie, but I was looking for something unchallenging for an evening.  I walked out of the theatre totally delighted and somewhat surprised.  This is a very fine baseball tribute film, and a nice lesson about pursuing your dreams.  Dennis Quaid does a masterful job with his role, and I was touched by his performance.  Definitely worth a full price ticket and a couple hours of your time!  "}{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I was impressed that I could take my 5 year old son to this movie without having to cover his ears or eyes.  No sex scenes, no profanity, and not even any violence.  Just good entertainment, enjoyable from beginning to end. Dennis Quaid pulls off this movie very well. "},{"Title":"A Disney movie thats worth seeing.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  OK let me say first off I'm not a real fan of Disney and the movies that they have turned out over the last few years. I consider almost all there (newer)movies a bunch of worthless crap marketed for Toys-Are-Us&#153;. Or a rehash of a classic that should have never been made (Lady and the Tramp 2, 102 dalmations, 101 dalmations, Cinderella 2, and so on....you get the idea)Then when they do a movie thats not animated its so lame that you wanna throw your JuJu beans at the screen and wake your kids up and go home. But oddly enough there is something different here, Its based on a true story and the story line and characters are convincing, pretty fresh faces here too, which adds to the convincing effect of the movie. It puts a new depth to baseball without all the bad language, and other crap we see in a baseball movie. Dennis Quaid's performance is awsome and makes the character believeable. If it wasn't for his performance, I would have probably fallen asleep because sadly enough the first 1/2 hour is dull and somewhat confusing, maybe it was the intro storyline??? But still once you see it, its a movie worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"An adult film kids can enjoy; instead of a kids film that adults must tolerate.  7/10","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  As predictable as a Hallmark card, but not without merit, The Rookie makes for a solid outing.  Dennis Quaid, the most reasonable jock actor working today, is absolutely perfect as the science teacher turned baseball player Jimmy Morris.  The film is never dumbed down for the children, as would be expected from a G rated film.  As a sports film, The Rookie is one of the best I have seen since Any Given Sunday. "},{"Title":"Good story.. bit too long","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The movie actually has a fairly good story, but gets bogged down in several key places. It's almost as if the director threw the movie together without taking the time to make some essential cuts in the film.  Dennis Quaid does a fairly decent job in his role... but something is clearly missing from several key scenes.This 2.5 hour movie could have been reduced to about a 2 hour movie. And probably would have been a much better film had it not had the feel as if it was thrown together. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite baseball movie, but definitely my favorite baseball story","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  As a huge baseball fan, my scrutiny of this film is how realistic it appears. Dennis Quaid had all of the right moves and stances of a major league pitcher. It is a fantastic true story told with just  a little too much Disney for my taste. "},{"Title":"Too bad Hollywood doesn't put out more films like The Rookie.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie is a great film.  It is a film that is entertaining and very family friendly at the same time.  Today the decision makers in Hollywood assume that for a film to be good it must have countless sexual references, crude humor, and foul language.  The Rookie proves that mindset not to be true.  The Rookie and Remember the Titans are two of the best sports films I have seen in a long time.  Hopefully these two films will be followed by more like them. "},{"Title":"If you liked 'Remember the Titans...you'll love 'The Rookie'!!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  'The Rookie' was a wonderful movie about the second chances life holds for us and also puts an emotional thought over the audience, making them realize that your dreams can come true. If you loved 'Remember the Titans', 'The Rookie' is the movie for you!! It's the feel good movie of the year and it is the perfect movie for all ages. 'The Rookie' hits a major home run! "},{"Title":"Passable sports film","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This effort is based on the true story of Jim  Morris, a high school science teacher/baseball coach, who is inspired by his players to try out for the pros and fulfill his life-long dream of playing in the majors.  Dennis Quaid, no stranger to sports films, plays Morris with enough conviction to make the part work and the producers do a credible job of recreating the real-world events that led to Morris brief stint as a relief pitcher for the woefull Tampa Bay Devil Rays. The first half of the film, dealing with his rag tag bunch of High School Baseball players (all of whom look way too old to actualy be in High School) is less effective and probably a bit too long. Overall the film does suffer from some pacing issues and a few extra subplots that we probably could have done without. However, it is still a fairly involving movie with an inspirational theme that proves once again that baseball is the national pastime for a reason. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"I thought it was a fairly decent movie","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The film had many fundamental values of family and love. It expressed human emotion and was an inspiring story. The script was clear( it was very easy to understand making it perfect for children)and was enjoyable and humorous at times. There were a few charged symbols to look for. The cinematography was acceptable. There was no sense of experimentation that a lot of cinematographers have been doing today(which quiet frankly is getting a little warn out). It was plainly filmed but had a nice soft quality to it. Although editing could have been done better I thought it was a nice movie for a family to enjoy. And the organization of information was just thrown at you which was something I didn't like either but in all it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"At last a family movie for the whole family","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  What a fun movie experience!  I was expecting a sappy kids movie and found that I enjoyed it more than my teens.  Take a tissue, it's not sad, just 'moving' in parts.  Finally, its a 'feel good' flick for the whole family. Note It's 2+ hours, so consider leaving the littlest 'squirmers' home for this one. AP "}{"Title":"... best picture about baseball since Redford whacked The Natural our way ...","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is the best picture about baseball since Redford whacked The Natural our way.  Dennis Quaid and Rachel Griffiths light up the screen with a great story and a cast that seemed real enough to pull you into their lives. Laced with dreams - dripping in reality, the American Dream reignites after 9.11 with a true story about the Devil Ray's mid-life rookie, Jimmy Morris.  Australian born actress, Rachel Griffiths, plays a native West Texan better than a lot of Texans I know; and Dennis Quaid was perfection &#133; cast as the wannabe, gonnabe and humble winner with as much psychological baggage as the average viewer in the audience.  It's real.  The on-screen chemistry works.  If you like baseball heart-warmers, you're going to love this film.  The ingredients for Americana and apple pie were all in there.  My popcorn became the &#145;a la mode'.  And hey buy the CD!  The music rocks and carries the story magnificently!  Syncing words and music pushes the story forward exactly the way it should, an area that disappoints me more often than not.Criticisms  I'd have given the baseball to somebody else. But Quaid has something to teach us all about &#145;character' and heart.  St. Rita and the nuns were a nice decoration, but they never really found their place in the story to open and close around them.  A little long.  Worth every minute in the last analysis.  8 / 10.   "},{"Title":"Never in my life have I been closer to falling asleep during a movie...","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Let's just say, it you like hysterical movies with a lot of cool surprises and a good pace...DON'T see The Rookie. This true story tells of high school science teacher/baseball coach, Jim Morris, who always dreamed of playing in the major leagues.  It goes on to tell about how he attempts to live his dream and inspires his high school team. The movies has an enjoyable story, but 85% of the movie is spent building up that very little suspense that blows up in th end.  The end was enjoyable, but not enough to make the movie excellent (at least to me).  The movie is sometimes slightly funny, but never hysterical.  The acting is decent...I think Dennis Quaid (Jim Morris) and Angus Jones (Hunter Morris) were the two best things to come out of the movie. But apparently, I stand quite alone in my opinions, so don't let me influence you.  I'm not saying this isn't good family entertainment.  Go ahead and see it if you don't think these things will bother you...and you really don't have something better to do. "},{"Title":"A wholesome movie for every father into sports.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie kept me smiling from beginning to end. Dennis Quaid played the role to perfection. The little boy that plays his son was fantastic. He made this a father-son movie to remember. The messages are good ones. Follow your dreams. Failing at the pursuit is alright as long as you try. The excitement is palpable. I believe this movie will be a classic. "},{"Title":"A simple, clean movie about getting a second shot","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I knew I was going to see this when I saw the first preview.  Dennis Quaid was one reason, but the theme of holding on to your dreams speaks to me.  People talk about this as a movie for kids, but I think it's a movie for baby boomers who are coming to terms with aging, infirm parents, our own mortality, our kids growing up and leaving us, and all the other things we never thought would happen to us.  The movie doesn't fall into the trap of tragedy; it's about what living your dreams means when you have a real life.   Quaid is too small for a pitcher but he makes it look good, and Rachel Griffiths makes a small part as the wife into a thoughtful, layered performance.  The camera-work is slow and sweet.  When they put this movie together, they left out anything that wasn't necessary.  Very nice. "},{"Title":"It's a movie for the entire family.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is a movie that plays to everyone's emotions. We all want a second chance at things. Jim Morris got one, followed his heart and got a chance to live his dream. What a great message and what a great delivery by this movie.  "},{"Title":"Very good Feel-good movie with reverence for baseball","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie is a VERY good Feel-good movie with reverence for baseball. The story line is true.This is the first cinema that I have seen that had the technical parts of pitching correct!   Baseball aficionadoes will like this movie.  So don't mind the tear-jerkers next to you.The movie is definately worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Disney might just be on to something here","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Disney might just be on to something here. First, they had Remember the Titans with Denzel, a story based on truth involving sports and a small town in middle America. Now, with Quaid and The Rookie... yet another sports story based on truth.Both movies move you to tears at times, and both make you smile and feel all warm after seeing them. My wife and I took in The Rookie and we expected it to be a great feel good type movie. We were not let down, when asked if we'd be buying this on DVD when it comes out, it was a no-brainer. Most definately. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Rookie is indeed based on a true story.  I heard an interview with Jim Morris, the man on whose life the film is based, and he said that the film had not been Hollywoodized.  While some things were added or deleted to make the story fit, the overwhelming majority of what you see on film actually happened.  He did have a difficult relationship with his father. He did challenge his students to win their District title in exchange for a promise to try out for a professional baseball team. He did get called up and pitch his first game as a Devil Ray at The Ballpark in Arlington.  He did strike out the first batter he faced.  And so on, and so on.While they did clean up the language one would normally hear in a clubhouse, the rest of the film rings true to life.  Quaid is outstanding as Jim Morris, and Rachel Griffiths is delightful as his loving wife, Lorri.  The young men who played the members of the high school baseball team he coached had just the right amount of teenage swagger.  I cannot recommend this film enough.  It proves what I've always believed, that Baseball is life; the rest is just details. "},{"Title":"Only for baseball lovers","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Big baseball fan here, I always believed that I had what it took to make it to the Big Leagues. I never made it, of course. That being said, this movie was too slow and drawn out. If you love the game and have always dreamed of playing professional ball, this is a must see. However, if you are a casual fan, read the story about Jimmy Morris, the true story about never giving up on a dream is worth a look. The movie, well............. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen in a while","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I would have liked it even if Dennis Quaid was not in it.  Of course him starring is alway an added bonus.  A great story of recapturing you dream.  And rated G - good for the whole family.  It just has the makings of all good movies.  Great cast (hello can't go wrong with DQ in my book), about baseball, involved teens and children in an uplifting manner, and just plan fun. "}{"Title":"he was as old as the movie is long","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  it started out great.  Somewhere in the middle it got real boring. there were scenes that made me feel I would be able to become a pro ball player.  Even at thirty two and five foot two.  it was an inspiration with lots of time in between.   "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight, opening night. It was great!! I'm a big fan of sports movies, and this was right up there as one of my favorites. Dennis Quaid was great. (Oh, by the way, Mr. Quaid, if you read this...my sister lives in Austin, where you live.....and she was supposed to buy you a drink once...well...she kinda stood you up...but she didn't mean to! C) not that anyone's going to believe that...) ANYWAY, it's a great movie. Everyone who likes a good sports movie, should go out and see it! C)  "},{"Title":"Cornball but Entertaining","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Despite Disney's best efforts, this is a rather enjoyable movie about following your dreams.  I was surprised that it didn't strike me as over-sentimental; this movie played fair.  Dennis Quaid was very, very good in the role, which is saying something for a sports movie.  I can't recall how many sports movies have had little quirks that bother me; here, everybody looks the part.  This movie is surprisingly good, and I predict that it will do surprising business as it is a G-rated movie that doesn't require the viewer to stop thinking.  Ebert to the contrary, this movie is a success. "},{"Title":"AmazinG!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I without a doubt love this movie.  Amazing being the keyword acting was superb I loved Quaid and the guys who played the high school players especially Chad Lindberg (I'm a Huge Fan)  plus all the guys were cute and learned how to play the game their were no special effects plus you love the fact that the movie is based on a true story that's a hands down loving it kind of movie.  I wanted to stay there all day and watch this movie over and over again.  The thing that got me loving it also is the towns people especially the three men that are Quaid's friends their hilarious and wise they made me crack up.  You could tell everyone in this movie went all the way to give you a spectacular movie and they did the time and got a Awesome movie.  On a scale from 1 to 10 i'd give it 100.  Recommended for the ball player in all of US! ~! "},{"Title":"The Rookie  A Grand Slam!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Never knew anything about any sports or wanted to until my now twelve- and-a-half year old son reached the age when he started to teach me about the things he cared about and expected and wanted my enthusiastic sharing of his budding interests (that's when he was three).  Baseball was on the list and remains there so it was a sure thing we'd see Dennis Quaid and Rachel Griffiths in The Rookie the day it opened.The film is based on a true story.  How close to base it is I leave to the baseball fans who largely packed the theater tonight.  The core is certainly true.  Jim Morris, one-time major league hopeful, sidetracked by injuries largely reflected in the movie by occasional glimpses of a surgical scar, teaches science and coaches a forlorn high school team in the Texas Panhandle.  With inspiring leadership the team wins a district victory but after Morris promised that he'd try to get a second crack at joining the Majors.Of course he makes it and in the process we see that's he's a truly great husband and father.  With a spouse as wise and lovingly supportive as Ms. Griffiths portrays I'd be too.  Intergenerational conflict and bonding are thrown in - the whole film couldn't take place on the ball field.  Dennis Quaid is superb in this role - a truly believable and totally likeable guy.The sentimentality is appropriate for the story.  It's never cloying but it is affecting.  Kevin Costner in For Love of the Game probably reflected a more realistically identifiable ballplayer in a cynical industry.  The Rookie can make you forget that major league ball is VERY big business.  But that's fine since the focus is an appealing Jim Morris who has the kind of guts, really the gumption to employ an old-fashioned word,  we all admire and few of us have.As is so often the case, the film score signals and nearly overwhelms big, dramatic scenes.  Tune it out and watch the expressions not only on Quaid's and Grifffiths's faces but also on their kids.  The eight-year-old boy is wonderful.The cinematography is excellent and there's a real sense of what living in a boom-and-bust region is like.It doesn't matter if you're a sports nut or not, this is a really fine family film, one of the best I've seen in a while.Score 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great film, good for everyone","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  My wife and I got to see The Rookie in a sneak preview.  We wanted to see the movie because we thought it would be inspiring.  It was.  It was a warm and wonderful display of human kindness and spirit.  It was funny and fun. The audience was filled with an even mix of adults and children, and everyone enjoyed the film.  Dennis Quaid's character is very believable (especially since my father was also in the military).  The audience clapped when it was over.  We left the theater with a glow in our hearts and a smile on our lips.  It wasn't until after we left that we found out it was a 'G' rated movie!  We can't wait to bring our kids back to see it! "},{"Title":"Great Wholesome Movie","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I appauled Disney for making a great family movie.  It was very well done, enjoyable to watch and a great story.  You don't need to be a baseball fan to enjoy this movie.  Denis Quad was awsome so was the entire cast.  It was a movie that makes you laugh, cry and sometimes wonder why.  I hope everyone goes and sees this movie. "},{"Title":"Good for what it is","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I usually don't care for kiddie films but I got the opportunity to attend a free sneak preview of this film.  If you liked Remember the Titans you'll love this flick.  I was very impressed but was bored with the camera shots. They kept using the same shots of pitching since Rookie of the Year.  Some were actually worse. Quaid did a wonderful job and the movie was rather touching.  This just isn't my kind of movie.  It was a lot better than I was expecting though. Well worth it if you have small kids.   "},{"Title":"Inspiring, subtle, touching true story","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I was anxious to see this movie before the critics had a chance to convince me otherwise, because they will undoubtedly not like the sentimental tone and squeaky-clean presentation of an inspiring true story.  And I wasn't disappointed.  Dennis Quaid was convincing as Jim Morris, a man who followed his dreams, and the supporting cast was believable and natural in their roles as well.  The story is told with a deliberate pacing, which may put off some younger viewers.  But the story is so charming and the characters so likable that most people won't mind the slower pace.  Call me old fashioned, but I was almost as excited to see that this adult movie was rated G as I was to find it that it was a genuinely effective and inspiring film.  I never felt like the lack of sex or profanity gave it a less-realistic tone, and it made me wonder why more movies aren't made like this--I guess it all comes down to money.  But if the packed screening I attended was any indication, the public is as excited about a clean, mature, family movie as I am, and The Rookie will appeal to the same audiences that made Remember the Titans and Rudy such hits.  Let's hope for it's success. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  They got it right this time. For a G rated film this shows us as filmgoers that G rated films can entertain as well or better than other faire. I think this will be the sleeper hit of the spring. Dennis does an amazing job and it is good to see him in a leading role again. This movie will move you and let you know how lucky all of us are to be able to enjoy things others take for granted. 9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Feel-great family film!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Disney delivers a feel-great family film that appeals to all ages. It will make you laugh, cry and realize `It's never too late to believe in your dreams.' Quaid is exceptional as everyday hero Jim Morris. Place this based-on-a-true-story baseball movie on your must see list! "},{"Title":"The CU Film Critic takes on The Rookie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" People say `feel-good movie' like it's a bad thing.  I say, if it rings true, and doesn't star Haley Joel Osment, a `feel-good movie' can be a great way to spend a couple hours.`The Rookie' stars Dennis `Bring Me the Head of Russell Crowe' Quaid as Jim Morris, a longtime baseball fanatic whose major league hopes were dashed by some shoulder injury or another.  At age thirty-seven, he coaches a high school baseball team in a Texas town that makes `King of the Hill' look like `Masterpiece Theatre.'  After a game of catch, he discovers that since his shoulder surgery, he's able to pitch harder and faster than ever before (think `Rookie of the Year' but with facial hair).  In order to encourage his struggling team, he promises them that if they'll buckle down and win a game or two, he'll follow suit by trying out for the major leagues.Need I tell you how things are gonna go down?What I'm liking about this is that it's a true story.  Not being a baseball fan myself, I invited my baseball junkie father to the screening in order to get an insider's perspective.  According to baseball trivia's Great One, they got everything with superb accuracy, right down to the fact that Jim Morris was a left handed pitcher.  I was then treated to a tirade on the lack of attention to detail in `Field of Dreams.'The characters, while flat, are played soulfully and with just the right script as to make us both fear and appreciate crazy old men from Texas. Every little kid in this movie is as cute- cute as a dozen baby ducks in tutus reciting `If You Give a Mouse a Cookie.'This movie is great for those of us that sometimes need a reminder of how great our lives really are.  After weeks and months of toil and mental anguish over the sport, Quaid's character finds himself watching a little league game, and remembering all the fun he'd somehow sucked out of his favorite pastime.  The next day, he greets his teammates by asking, `You know what we get to do today?  We get to PLAY baseball!'`The Rookie,' much like `The Sandlot,' is a baseball movie that can be enjoyed by anyone- baseball fan or not.  Also like `The Sandlot,' it reminds us that baseball was created for kids, and teaches by example by grabbing only the SECOND G-rating (in theatres) for the year 2002.`The Rookie' gets a B.  Would have been higher, but there are better baseball movies, if you want to look hard enough.  Gotta be fair.  "},{"Title":"It is worth trying out you dreams.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" The Rookie is another based off of a true story movie.It's about Dennis Quaid portraying a guy who wanted to play major league baseball but couldn't because he's always moving with his family. And his dad never cared about his son's dream of being a baseball player.30 some years later, he's a science teacher who coaches baseball. He's married, and the kids at school like him as their coach.One day when practicing with a mph gun. It turns out that he can through a ball at 99 mph. With an arm like that he can be able to try out at the majors.This movie isn't too bad. I'm surprised that it's ranked as one of the few family sport movies. Due to the fact that it's a G rated movie, it's nothing compared to the other average sport movies. It doesn't have any language or anything that would offend young viewers.But I only recommend it to those who like baseball or family safe movies. "},{"Title":"best Disney movie that I've seen","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" After hearing that they were going to make a rated G baseball movie I immediately turned my head. Then I saw that Dennis Quade being the rookie! The guy is like 50 playing a 35 year old! But people kept telling me it was good so I had to put the movie in. It was a good surprise.Dennis Quade was very good. He had the truest expressions as he moved up in the baseball world. Because this was based on a true story, it seemed that Dennis Quade might of had to method act some of his part and that sure did help. As Dennis Quades's character smiles you know you could only smile yourself.What I liked the most about the movie was they're are two stories. One being Dennis Quade coaching the team and how the team was dominating. This took up the first hour of the movie. The second of course being Dennis Quade trying to make it to the major leagues.The only parts of the movie that bothered me was the sound effect they had on the baseball as he threw it. They made it sound like the ball was going 300 mph instead of 98. This is a great family film and check it out if you love baseball and know so much about how it works (minor leagues, call-ups, scouting etc.).I'd give the acting a 9, directing a 6, editing a 7, storyline a 9 and message a 9. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" One of, if not the best, baseball movies ever. Combines real drama, emotion, and sports in a combination that makes a great fairy tale story and is fit for the entire family. The acting is superb, the locations are true to life. The story has meaning and a moral, items which are so lacking in the vast majority of today's films. As a high school coach myself, I can vouch for the realism in the coaching scenes with the interaction between coach and athletes, the motivation factors, and the love and loyalty between coach and player. To add the icing to the cake, the strong family theme throughout between man and wife, and fathers and sons create the emotional tugs of the heart as well. It leaves the viewer pleased at the end, and iterates the value of following through on your dreams, no matter how silly or far away they seem, and how dedication and hard work can pay off. All movies should be made with this much craftsmanship and quality. "},{"Title":"An inspirational film one must see","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Never too lateThe Rookie is based on the true life story of Jim Morris (Dennis Quaid), a father, high school science teacher, and a baseball coach. Jim grew up in a military family moving from place to place. He developed a love for baseball. His ultimate dream was to be a professional baseball player. He made it to the minor leagues, but after blowing out his shoulder, his dream came to an end. He then became a high school baseball coach and a science teacher. His team was absolutely terrible, losing game after game. In 1999 he made a bet with his team. If the team would win the district championship, Morris, who was throwing in the mid nineties, would try out for a major league baseball team. His team ended up winning the district championship, and holding up his end of the bargain tried out for a team. Shortly after, his was on the road to become the oldest rookie in the Major Leagues. I feel that one of the reasons the director John Lee Hancock developed this film was to say we should never give up on our dreams. This movie is a great story to prove this point. If Jim would have given up on his dream, he would have never found himself playing in the major leagues. Another message the film sends is the importance to forgive people for their failures. He never had a perfect relationship with his family; despite this, he had enough strength to forgive them. This film is one of the best films I have seen. I found the film to be very inspirational. It provides the viewers with hope that they can make their dreams come true. The acting in the film was phenomenal; Dennis Quaid was extremely convincing in portraying Jim Morris. This is a great family film that will capture one's attention with an exhilarating plot and story book ending. In the end, thinking that anything is possible if we believe, I left with goose bumps. "},{"Title":"Believe in your dreams","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  What is meant to be will happen.  Saint Rita  interceded, and with God anything can happen is the message.  This movie displays hope in a hopeless world.  Which is a good message, and an inspiration for all.  This is a happy story, and a movie about values and people.  Where I work many of my coworkers hope for others to fail, and this movie shows what supportive people can achieve.  8/10  "},{"Title":"Well-acted, well-made and well-intentioned...but altogether unsatisfying","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I can say is well-crafted, yet I can also say I was pretty bored through most of it.  The Rookie is a Disney production, yet it doesn't have that Disney feel.  And it doesn't feel G-rated either.  In fact, this movie does a fine job at avoiding overused cliches in the genre of sports dramas and stands on its own two feet.  The premise of a high school science teacher suddenly becoming a major league ballplayer seems a little far-fetched, but it's a true story!  So I can't complain it was unconvincing.  The performances are terrific.  Dennis Quaid is good in virtually every movie he does, and he again delivers a subtle, convincing performance.  Brian Cox is great as his workaholic father, who tries to convince him that there's more to life than baseball.  Rachel Griffiths is perfectly cast as Quaid's wife, who also tries to discourage him from baseball.  Though Griffiths is Australian, I don't think any American actress could've played her role better, and she perfectly dons a Texas accent.  I have few bad things to say about The Rookie other than it was long and dull.  I didn't enjoy the overuse of country music on the soundtrack, though I know that it was used simply to give the movie a Texas feel.  You can't expect the soundtrack to include Metallica!  And though the movie does a pretty good job at avoiding cliches, there are still a few that exist.  Like what I was talking about earlier, about Quaid's wife and father discouraging him from baseball.  There's one scene where his Dad gives him a speech/monologue--standing inside the house, many feet away from his son--about how there's more to life than baseball.  Done with his speech, he closes the door and goes back into the house.  No Goodbye son or anything like that.  Then he comes home and his wife gives him the same speech, only she goes outside to the porch to apologize to him minutes later and they give each other the you were right, I was wrong run-around.  Another problem is the film takes too much time stressing the fact that Jimmy Morris is a brilliant pitcher.  I think if the director cut out most of his pitching scenes, the movie would be about 85 minutes.  Now, I love that scene in which he pulls off to the side of the road to practice pitching by throwing the ball towards a meter, which measures the speeds of passing cars.  The meter reads 76 MPH.  Then when he goes to pick up the ball, we watch as it changes to 96 MPH.  Once we watch that scene, we already know that he's a brilliant pitcher, we don't need it pounded into our skulls.  I don't even know how good of a batter he is, because they never show him at bat!  There's a good deal of things I give this movie credit for, but all in all it just doesn't deliver.  Sure, it doesn't have the formula cliches of last year's Hardball, but it also doesn't have the charm and fun of Hardball.  I wasn't uplifted, nor entertained, so this movie pretty much left me cold.  My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Rated G sports movie starring Dennis Quaid","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Dennis Quaid was ill-used in this movie.  He's a good actor and does what he can in the role of Jimmy Morris, a 30 something teacher and baseball coach who becomes a rookie in the Majors, but the movie gives off a certain feeling of aloof that lingers from the first shot to the last.  This could've been a really interesting sports movie and at times shows signs of what was on the drawing boards, and then it goes back to it's Disney, G rated pillow that makes this based on a true story fizzle whenever it should go further.  Oh well, there's always Major League.  Grade C "},{"Title":"Big league winner","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" THE ROOKIE (2002) **1/2 Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, Brian Cox, Jay Hernandez, Beth Grant, Angus T. Jones, Rick Gonzalez, Chad Lindberg. Better-than-anticipated yet predictable &#145;true life' account of Texas chemistry high school teacher/baseball coach Jim Morris (Quaid at his most amiable/vulnerable) whose lifetime ambition to play professional ball returns in the form of his dormant fastball and love of his family to fulfill his dreams.  Corny in the best ways and fun all around make up for the by-the-numbers connections that ultimately lead to the hero's quest. (Dir John Lee Hancock)  "}{"Title":"OK, but the usual","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie is a good family movie that has the usual rags to riches story. If you are an avid baseball enthusiast, you are going to be disappointed. This movie very poorly portrays the game of baseball. The story is quickly moving sometimes, and other times it is very slow. T he camera work is way to flashy at many points and is a good cause of a headache. The acting is OK, but not as good as expected for Dennis Quaid. The fact that the movie is set on a true story, many things seem unrealistic and very Disney like. Overall, the movie is a disappointing film that seemed to be over hyped and very average. This movie is average but is a good family movie to waste a rainy day. "},{"Title":"A solid base hit up the middle.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  THE ROOKIE is what it is - well made but predictable. Some details were confusing (I thought Jim had two children, then a third one pops up unexpectedly) or incorrect (didn't Morris strike Clayton out looking?), but overall it was a pleasant, inoffensive movie. As a baseball fan, my favorite moment was the Devil Rays' defensive errors during The Big Game. Anybody who follows the sport would recognize the authenticity of this scene (jeez, that team has sucked for so long), and it was great to see familiar names (Boggs, Canceco) on the jerseys hanging in the locker room, as well as shots of the gorgeous Arlington ballpark, home of the Texas Rangers. But you know what would have been cool? Since the Durham Bulls make an appearance, why didn't Costner take this role?  It'd be a nice touch for the parents, and Costner's participation in this movie would have helped us forgive FOR LOVE OF THE GAME.With attractive actors and a well-assembled though predictable script, THE ROOKIE is a competent but unspectacular film. "},{"Title":"Well made and likable","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Dennis Quaid is well cast as Jim Morris in this true story of an older guy who tries out for the major leagues after coaching his high school to a division title. Quaid is totally believable in the role and that's where the heart of this film lies. The wrong actor would have sunk this film but Quaid has always been so physically fit that he can portray this aging wanna be ballplayer and his natural charm makes you root for him all the more. I've always thought that Quaid was an underrated actor and he seems to be getting better as he gets a little older. The story is old fashioned and at times sappy but I think that would be nit-picking. Although I do have one major gripe, Rachel Griffiths is a major actress but her role here as Quaid's wife is a throw away. She really doesn't have any effective scenes and her role is reduced to being the supportive wife. In essence, any actress could have played the part. If your making a film with Rachel Griffiths you had better give her something interesting to do! But I did enjoy the film and I liked the way the director John Lee Hancock took his time telling the story. The pacing is good and its also very well photographed. Its not a great film but how can you knock a movie that has so much heart? I couldn't, and I sat back and bought into it and enjoyed myself! "},{"Title":"long","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  This Disney story is a long trying film to watch.  Despite a propensity for baseball by so many Americans, watching it in this filming borders on boring.  I felt sorry for the youngsters in the audience who were subjected to the extended story which could have been an hour shorter.  Still, Dennis Quaid gives a good performance. "},{"Title":"Not Quite a Homerun.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Overall good little film based on a true story about a chemistry teacher (Dennis Quaid) in Big Lake Reagan County, Texas who still harbors thoughts about someday playing baseball in the Major Leagues. He coaches a rag-tag bunch of players at the town's high school and challenges them to start playing up to their capabilities in the hopes of keeping the program alive. He makes a deal with them that he will try out for the big leagues if they start playing the way they are supposed to. Naturally all goes well as the team makes it to the Texas Class 2A U.I.L. Baseball Tournament. Now it is Quaid's turn to hold up his end of the bargain. So he tries out and the newly-formed Tampa Bay Devil Rays show great interest and hire him to a minor league deal. What follows is a long and sometimes seemingly hopeless journey to be called up to the majors. The Rookie is a film that really starts to tire in its second half. It starts off so well and the footage of Quaid coaching his players in Big Lake is really excellent, but when the focus shifts squarely to him the project struggles to stay above water. After a while it seems that Quaid's character is just a selfish person who wants to do whatever he wants with utter disregard for his wife,  children and career back home. Dennis Quaid does a good job here, but he lacks the support that made him so much better in greater films (The Right Stuff, Innerspace, Traffic). Good overall, but could have been great after its excellent start. 4 stars out of 5.      "},{"Title":"(3 Rating) Bull Durham + Field of Dreams / Mighty Ducks","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I'm sorry, I had high hopes for this movie.  Unfortunately, it was too long, too thin and too weak to hold my attention.  When I realized the whole movie was indeed only about an older guy reliving his dream, I felt cheated. Surely it could have been a device to bring us into something deeper, something more meaningful.So, don't buy a large drink or you'll be running to the rest room.  My kids didn't enjoy it either.  Ah well.   "},{"Title":"(3 Rating) Bull Durham + Field of Dreams / Mighty Ducks","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I'm sorry, I had high hopes for this movie.  Unfortunately, it was too long, too thin and too weak to hold my attention.  When I realized the whole movie was indeed only about an older guy reliving his dream, I felt cheated. Surely it could have been a device to bring us into something deeper, something more meaningful.So, don't buy a large drink or you'll be running to the rest room.  My kids didn't enjoy it either.  Ah well.   "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" It's hard to believe this is a Disney movie. It's one of the rare movies that Disney makes that has a Mother and Father together in one movie. It's one that the whole family will enjoy, whether your a fan of baseball or not and an inspiration to never let go of your dreams.The movie is based on the book by Jimmy Morris and Joel Engel The Oldest Rookie Big-League Dreams from a Small Town Guy. Although Dennis Quaid is older than the 35 year old Jimmy Morris he portrays, he does an excellent job of giving you the sense of emotions that Jim Morris has experienced over time. This movie also has a wonderful supporting cast of unknowns which makes the movie even more believable. It's too bad that Hollywood doesn't make more of these types of movies. Ones that have a believable story or plot without all the sexual affairs, car crashes and explosions. "},{"Title":"Not That Good","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" Another feel good movie from Disney. The Rookie is about a man who has been given a second chance to play baseball after getting injured and was ask not to play by the doctors, until (12 yrs later) he found himself able to pitch at 98 mile/hour and would like and try to get in Major League.The movie starts off very slow especially the introduction of his childhood before getting start with something. The location is very dried, bright, and sandy making this movie somewhat not very attractive and boring. There 3 parts to this movie 1st - His Child Hood, 2nd - His Coaching experience and 3rd - Him playing. Somewhat I feel the story is too long.The movie was OK, the acting was also OK not great and telling the truth, there is nothing great in this movie. Watch it not watch it really make no different. You wouldn't feel a thing.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"I was strangely unmoved by this","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Usually I am a sucker for this type of movie.  I liked Field of Dreams, Rudy and all the other 'conquering your dream'-themed movies.  But this one left me cold to the point that I have no desire to see it more than once, and usually I'll watch ANYTHING more than once, even if only to verify how I feel about it. It was too long, it was predictable and manipulative.  Dennis Quaid, who is normally emotionally available, holds back here.  I was DYING for a scene of joy, some kind of release, and thought I was getting it near the end but was again disappointed.  3/10.  "}{"Title":"So boring I near fell asleep","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I went to see The Rookie a while ago with a couple of friends. I thought it would be an inspiring, melodramatic, and touching flick. Yes, it was. The main problem with The Rookie is that 1-it's way too long, almost 2 1/2 hours; 2-it focuses only on the main character and not his family, and his problems with them; 3- it's so boring  I nearly fell asleep. The mood of the whole movie is slow, steady, and you're thinking the whole way through, when is the team ever going to win? The only good thing about the movie is Dennis Quaid's acting, and the adorable Angus T. Jones, playing a better role in his young career than See Spot Run. Inspiring, somewhat moving, but mostly just nap time. "},{"Title":"Overlong and Unoriginal","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" I wanted to like The Rookie. I like sports romances. I like director John Lee Hancock's other work. The soundtrack included the likes of John Hiatt, one of my faves (thoughthere wasn't much in original songs and the songs weren't very illustrative).I like Dennis Quaid (nice to see that smile again) and Rachel Griffiths (who is given almost nothing to do except prove that she's not always crazy Brenda from Six Feet Under).But I was bored silly and simply lost concentration by the time the end finally came.Overlong and unoriginal.(originally written 5/19/2002) "},{"Title":"Disney strikes out again. (spoilers)","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Once again Disney has been pulling at straws trying to make another Blockbuster hit (having only recently succeeded with Finding Nemo, it seems, and being unable to match it). Dennis Quaid plays Jimmy Morris, a high school baseball coach out of Texas who makes a wager with his team. Win the championship and he'll try out for the majors (making more of this promise to his son than his team). We see him float around from one dive team to another (and getting equally discouraged by his disuading wife and father) before finally being called up for his shot at the majors. Suddenly, this middle aged man, who dropped out of the minors years ago due to a shoulder injury, is playing top notch for the majors. It is based on a true story, but when Disney thought it would be great to spend big bucks on the story, they should've thought about really developing the story into something entertaining. Despite the true tales of Jim Morris, this movie really lacks a story, or at least an effective delivery if you want to pay tribute to this guy and his 'amazing feat'. Sure, we see this guy struggling as he gets traded around before finally making it to the majors, encouraging audiences members to remember one thing stick with your dreams and give it your all through even the most difficult moments if you expect to succeed. However, this movie isn't really entertaining since Jim Morris's character doesn't really do much. Even the baseball action isn't that hot. We just seem more of one guy traveling from one team to the next and not much else. Plus, the movie is just too long.If it's baseball movies that suit you, then there are plenty of good titles out there (the classics Field of Dreams; Bill Durham; The Sandlot; League of Their Own; etc.). The Rookie is just plain and simple overrated. "},{"Title":"Can you get to the pros with just a fastball?","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Yaaaaawwwwwwnnnnnnn. Another in a long line of 'lowly underdog strives valiantly and comes back to win the big one' bores. Phony tale of a middle aged man who suddenly discovers he has a major league arm after all. I can't believe this watered down heart wrencher was based on truth. Whose truth? Some Hollywood producer? If you want to see an 'underdog' film with a lot more believability and nervous tension watch Hossiers. Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Bush League","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Just think, he might have thrown 100 mph if he used a windup. I guess if you come from Texas and get on a major league team like the Tampa Bay Devil Rays you consider yourself having made the bigs. I'm still reaching for a reason why they made this picture. Too much idle time on someones hands here. Strictly bush league in every respect.  "},{"Title":"Standard Baseball movie","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  If you're easily inspired or you're a couch potato who's too lazy to live out your own dream and would rather live vicariously through somebody elses dream then I guess this is your movie. This is the kind of film that Hollywood excels in these days- well shot, well-acted and utterly predictable. For those of you who think this is one of the greatest baseball movies of all time do yourself a favor and rent a copy of  The Pride of the Yankees starring Gary Cooper. It is the greatest baseball movie of all time and nothing before or since has even come close. "},{"Title":"Could have used some humor","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wow, 2 long hours to tell a story about dreams. The first 45 minutes are boring, I wish they showed more from the time on the road. And in 90 minutes you can tell enough, is my opinion, why 120? By the way, could have used some humorAnd that son, really, the worst acting since that kid in Last Action Hero.6/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing exciting happens","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  At best, I would say this makes a very average TV movie. It is boring and too long. And I am sure some of the scenes in the movie did not happen in real life. Like when Jimmy stops his truck on a road at night to throw a baseball past a speed radar. And the radar just happens to have a few burnt out lights just in the right place to make a 9 look like a 7. Things like that ruin a movie that is based on a real life story because obviously that was just written for the movie and didn't really happen. And the whole relationship between Jimmy and his father was just to much of a cliche for these types of films. Father and son don't get along. Father doesn't support son to  follow foolish dreams. Son proves father wrong and they hug at the end.FINAL VERDICT I don't recommend this unless you are a baseball fan. It is too boring for the average movie watcher. "},{"Title":"Very boring","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I found this movie very boring.  It got very slow in the middle, all we kept seeing were practice scenes with people throwing balls.  What also surprised me is the lack of humor.  There were a couple of places where there were some funny moments from the kids, but other then that it was very boring.  The movie is EXTREMELY SLOW.  To the movie's credit, it did get a little better towards the end but at that point I didn't really care anymore because I was bored the whole time.  The actors did a good job despite not having too much of a story to work with.  I would give it 3.5/10, I rarely have a bad time in the movie theater but this one simply did nothing for me. "},{"Title":"Oh my God this movie is horrible","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I can't believe all the positive comments I'm reading here.  Folks, this is one bad movie.  After watching this movie, I was insulted and angry that this tripe had been foisted on me.  I want my three hours back, Mr Eisner!Yeah you could say this movie is for kids -- certainly anyone over the age of ten who doesn't want to put their shoe through the screen would have to be brain-dead -- but what kid wants to look at scenes where the characters just stare into space, thinking and feeling nothing in particular, while the clock on the wall ticks... and ticks... and ticks...?  There are MANY such moments.The script was apparently generated by the Cliche-O-Meter set on Brain Destroy mode.  Utterly hack work, not even decent at tear-jerking, let alone telling a decent story or giving some real character development.The acting is OK, I guess.  Quaid and the others do a pretty good job considering what they're given to work with.  FWIW, the cinematography is utterly devoid of imagination, too.All in all, I can't believe this movie was actually released.  I've certainly seen straight-to-video films better than this.The ONE good scene is when The Kid (Quaid's son) is eaten by rats... no wait, that didn't happen.  Darn it. "}{"Title":"Good, but EXTREAMELLY STUPID","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" OK first off, this is by NO means a bad movie. Not at all. It's actually a good movie trapped in an awful movie's DVD. Mainly because it's stupid. OK just so you know, I'm in high school, so I can really understand how flipping unrealistic all those scenes that involve high schoolers are. OK you know in the district championship game when Rudy is pitching to the bad guy in red hair? THERE IS NO WAY THAT GUY IS IN HIGH SCHOOL. even the seniors at my school look like toddlers compared to the kid. Also, during the seen in the beginning of the flick the protagonist is a kid aged 10-12, but later he is 30-40, so obviously the characters have all aged 20-30 years, but the 3 weird old guys he always hangs out with don't change at all in appearance! frank's hair turned white, but other than that there the exact same! it's like the just returned from the set of tuck everlasting. when the young morris goes into the store, all those old guys are between 40-60. Twenty to thirty years later, they look the same. dumb. so does the dad, the exact same.also during the seen when he's posting the newspapers clippings on his bulletin board, i paused it and went up the the TV and read that newspapers, and IT Wasn't ABOUT BASEBALL.also this nonsense with the tryouts, tell me the last time you saw a huge billboard that said hey have you ever wanted to play in the MLB? well then come here at this time! for him to even a freaking shot at the majors he would need an agent! the music in the this film sucks too, particularly when he's timing his pitches with the car radar thing.also, why is the kid ALWAYS WITH THE DAD? i mean did he get divorced and take custody? that punk is always with him, even at practice. my freshman basketball coach ALWAYS brings his kids (all 3 of em) to our practices, and my teammates HATE IT and the last thing we would want is for one of them to come party in the locker room with us, like Hunter does. "},{"Title":"i need to be smoking...","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":" was it just me or was that the funniest film ever. i say that because it was so cheesy that you could confuse it with a parody. everything start to finish but one that stood out was when he was on the phone in the phone box helping he son with his homework and those black 'street' kids are hassling him but all feel guilty when he tell them he was helping his son. tears was running down my face with laughter, i mean as if!! and i wasn't even smoking funny cigarettes. i think this with a family fun classics like cool runnings or home alone are great films to stay at home with your mates to hav a smoke with...Love you Gumbo "},{"Title":"Just Take Another Look...","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  ...at the film and you'll see how amazing this film would have been without the unnecessary and obsessive focus on the son. Really, think about it what are we focusing on here, the son or the father. Yes, yes, I realize how important the son is to the father's determination and, in the end, the unlikely successes, but did anybody realize how annoying the son actually is? Don't get me wrong I applaud the outstanding performance of Angus T. Jones, but it was certainly unfortunate the part he had to play. The son was literally in every single seen and seemed to take the show away. Soon, it got so annoying that I started thinking more about when the movie was going to end than how good the story was. I can't help but say that every time I think of the worst movie I've seen, the first one that comes to my mind is The Rookie. Disney had their chance to make a memorable film, but instead put the spotlight in the wrong place.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Sport","Review":"  I think the storyline's okay, and I like Dennis Quaid's acting ability. The little kids in this movie are cute. But I think some parts are cheesy, and I HATE the music. And what's with the opening scene with the nuns? That's stupid! Overall, this movie is a 7.5 out of 10. "}]