[{"Title":"That's why you shouldn't drink your own urine.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"68 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot stress the fact that this film has been overplayed and recycled through Hollywood more times that I can count. While I have read some reviews that claim that this is one of Lawrence's more creative roles yet, I can only laugh and gag simultaneously at these words. Lawrence was a major contributor to the downfall of this film. He provided no character analysis, no development, and definitely no humor to the entire story. It was as if we were watching a dress rehearsal in progress before the final script arrived with all of Lawrence's funny bits. From the quick introduction at the beginning of the film (a mere 7 minutes of character introduction), until the incoherent ending that was trying to monopolize on the popularity of Gladiator, we never see Lawrence's character of Jamal or Skywalker (depending on the care of the actors) emerge from the film. This was merely Martin Lawrence cashing in on his already overplayed self, stretching no further than his comfortable limits and never exerting anything fresh. He has fallen into the cracks of the Hollywood recycling bin and Black Knight reinforces that idea.Sadly, Lawrence isn't backed up with any better acting or story. Tom Wilkinson has done some amazing films during his career, but apparently was looking to buy a new car with this film. It required no real acting from him, just sloppy drunkenness with clichéd moments near the end that could have been pulled from any other film like this one. I think that was my major problem with this film (beside the lackluster Lawrence) was the story. There wasn't any. It felt like we were forced from the beginning to all of our different places and events just to fill time. There wasn't any redeeming value from the story. In fact, I would go so far as to say that whomever wrote this screenplay may have&#133;gasp&#133;plagiarized from nearly every other film like this one out there. The structure was nothing new, the formula literally had dust on it, and nobody seemed to care. Lawrence obviously didn't from the performance that he gave, but I expected more from Mr. Wilkinson who has impressed me in the past. This was not the best showcase for his talent, or for anyone's talent to say the least. We must always remember that it begins with a story, and if it doesn't sound good on paper than it isn't going to translate well onto the screen. This is a rule to live by for everyone involved with the Black Knight debacle.Finally, I normally don't mention this in my reviews, but with this film it just stood out more than any other that I have seen, but the production of this film was horrible. The costumes, the sets, and even the way the shots were framed seemed cheap in so many ways. The costumes are the first that come to mind because Lawrence always seemed like he was wearing something that was made with haste. How could he have quickly made this garment in the time that he was in this land? Who knows, but it was cheap and only lowered this film further into the muck pit. If the story is going to be bad, and the actors are not going to give their full potential by actually doing what they are paid &#133; to be creative &#133; than at least give us something to look at Production Team! Unfortunately, there was nothing ravishing to even glance at. The entire Medieval World that Lawrence works at from the beginning is cheap and obviously a set. I want a film to take me away from Hollywood and give me my dollar's worth, not rob me blind. The cinematography was done by a two-year old. Nothing spectacular, nothing worth writing about.Overall, this was a very poor film. Would it have hurt anyone working on this project to use a little something I like to call imagination? Creativity was not being used or welcomed in this film. You could tell that the director wanted to make the film, edit out what didn't work, finish, and relax at home while thinking of all the different ways that he could spend his Hollywood money! I blame two major players in this film for the overall poor quality. The first is Mr. Lawrence. If he does not expand his acting potential and bring something new to the screen, I don't think his Hollywood stay will be very long. The second player that I blame for this befuddling mess is the writer. Again, creativity and imagination went backseat to the infamous Hollywood recycling bin. This was a truly disappointing picture.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Black Page","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  All I can say is that after 30 minutes I fell asleep out of complete boredom while watching this movie. It isn't funny, it has got no plot, and the concept has been used many times before, and better. The only positive thing about it is that one appreciates a good film even more after watching this one. "},{"Title":"I believe a tenth level of hell is needed for bad actors...(mild spoilers)","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Alright, first of all I should confess that I like Martin Lawrence about as much as having my fingernails torn out. I found Bad Boys 1+2 to be terrible, despite the reputation of both movies. Then me and my girlfriend decided to rent a few movies from the local videostore...ANd for some reason she picked this one. Story in short Modern guy travels back to medieval times. Lots of unfunny situations follows. Hero gets it on with Nubian Princess while evil Knight-guy goes around being cliché evil. Only fun scene was when ML pulls up his lighter and goes Behold! I can create fire! or something similar, and the reaction he gets from the local populace is ; Yeah? So what? We've seen fire before. And while ML wasn't as horrible in this movie as in BB 1 and 2 he's still painfully bad. To sum it all up I have to say Stay away from this piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Disappointing performance by Martin Lawrence","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Finally got around to seeing this one on D-TV.I believe most know the plot  man from South-Central LA is teleported to the days of Knights and becomes involved in a rebellion to oust the evil King and restore the good Queen.In general, it was disappointing because the screenplay did not allow Martin Lawrence to be as funny as he normally is.  It seemed forced and weighted down.  Unlike other Lawrence films (i.e. Bad Boys, Blue Streak, Big Mama's House) we were not able to see the Martin that we all know and love (or hate).  Instead of the impulsive, quick-witted Martin we expect, what we actually saw was Martin that struggled with a poor, predictable script that runs out of fuel in the first twenty minutes and leaves Martin to try to make something out of the remaining hour.  As funny as he can be, he is no miracle worker.All in all I give it a mediocre to low rating.  The worst thing is that when I see that Martin Lawrence is going to be in a film I expect certain level of funniness from him.  I was disappointed.  I feel gypped out of one hour-twenty-minutes of my Saturday.  "},{"Title":"It was terrible and far-fetched","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"36 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was bad. Not of the so-bad-it's-good types, it was just bad. This going back to the Middle Ages stuff has been done a million times before. Okay, it tried to be a politically correct movie so no one was surprised when a black guy appeared in Medieval Europe, but political correctness soon chickened out and rather than letting Lawrence have a white girlfriend, they came up with a far-fetched explanation of how can a medieval king have a black lady-in-waiting. Also, in American movies time travel is always combined with a travel to Europe, usually without explaining how did it happen. (the same thing messed up the Americanised version of Jean Reno's Les Visiteurs, even though the original movie was so good that even the American ripoff couldn't be bad.) I've seen only about the first half of the movie 'cause I've realised that I've got many better things to do than watching this, so it's possible that after the first half the movie suddenly became interesting, but I seriously doubt it. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled, this is a terrible movie...but funny at parts.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"46 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  To be completely honest I am not a fan of Martin Lawrence, although I LOVED Bad Boys and thought he did an awesome job in that film...but this review isn't about THAT film (Blue Streak was pretty good too).  Anyhow, I have to say that I had EXTREMELY low expectations for Black Knight, the previews were barely funny, the story looked god-awful, and just over-all nothing even remotely great.  ...BUT...I watched the movie anyway.  I thought the movie was just HORRIBLE, but there were a few things that I thought were pretty funny.I really can't believe that a movie like this would get green-lit.  I can't believe that someone would read this story and say Yeah, let's make this into a movie!  You gotta be kidding me?!?!I really don't have much else to say about the film.  If you are a fan of Martin Lawrence, then there's a possibility that you may like the film.  If you've got some free time, and have an opportunity to see it for free (or really cheap) go ahead and check it out.  Otherwise, spend your money on a different movie.Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"I have seen worse","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was tolerable at best. Not bad considering the circumstances behind Martin Lawrence traveling back in time. That was a little unimaginative. This one makes A Knight's Tale seem like a medieval masterpiece. (3 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"the black knight is defeating","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a more toned down version of Martin Lawrence, which to me isn't as funny as his usual raunchy self.  His TV show was very good and his comedy specials are funny, but I haven't enjoyed any of his movies except Bad Boys. This was tolerable at best but his best jokes were racial ones.  You can't have a movie solely depend on that.  Not to mention the weak plot. "},{"Title":"Nothing that you want, and everything you expect... almost","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The star of one of the most successful African American sitcoms of the 90s returns for yet another uninspired comedy charged with more racial jokes than you can shake a stick at.Medieval feudalism meets hip-hop. Another typical culture clash comedy, with all the tools to look exactly the same as its predecessors (Rush Hour, Bringing Down the House), but doesn't come across quite as funny.The one thing I can say for this movie is that it definitely doesn't take itself seriously. The reactions and mannerisms of the medieval people are stretched at best, and Lawrence's reactions aren't quite how you'd expect a normal person to act, were he thrown back in time. All of the jokes are clearly set up, but the ridiculousness of the movie might just grow on you after a while if you treat it like a bad movie.The front half of the movie is completely abysmal. It's just about clichés of black culture and nothing more. The second half mellows a lot on the racial humor and becomes more charming. It doesn't become good, but it had charm. Without giving anything away, there's a contrived dance scene that arises well into the movie. As silly and ridiculous as it is, it's an entertaining and well-done scene.I still gave this movie a two, because even though I enjoyed some scenes near the end, I wouldn't be much of a movie critic if I gave this movie TOO much due. It really is just a bad movie. The fairly original concept was enough to hold my interest, although the comedy was cliché most of the time and overall poorly executed.Worth watching if you're in the mood for seeing something stupid but not boring. If you want a laugh-out-loud masterpiece, look elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"More annoying than funny","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"32 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" More annoying than funny, I am hoping that I was not supposed to take Black Knight seriously because it just doesn't make any sense. (I won't even attempt to mention the plot holes because there are just too many, and I think they must have been intentional.) It is all about a black man who mistakenly travels back in time to the middle ages, and while he is there, he makes a mockery of everything. If he was not so annoying, it might have been a decent and funny film. Instead, it just became a film centered around the jokes and antics of a clueless black man playing 'dumb' and doing his best to ridicule everything about the middle ages. It's just too annoying to be funny. "}{"Title":"Stupid, unfunny insulting to even the most moronic intelligence","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"47 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There are movies that are absolutely stupid, and yet incredibly funny; Animal House and Caddyshack come to mind.  Black Knight is absolutely stupid and incredibly UNfunny.  Along with black holes, quarks, and the meaning of life, the greatest mystery of the universe is why Martin Lawrence has a career The guy is not only not funny, but manages to be truly pitiable -- shucking and jiving like an nineteenth century minstrel. I'm surprised the NAACP doesn't protest his performances, or this movie for that matter.It's hard to find a redeeming virtue in this movie -- the script seems to have been lost by all indications, the acting, even using the word in quotation marks gives too much credit, is lousy; and the sets look like they were worked up in a high school basement for a student production.I'm not sure what audience the makers were going for; Martin Lawrence is often marketed to black audiences, but in this movie he and the love interest are the only blacks in the movie.  Of course all the whites are depicted as complete idiots, but Lawrence out-idiots them all.Another example of Hollywood's contempt for the movie going public.  They think they can trowel out any sort of bilge and make money.  Let's hope they wake up soon, and if they're  going to give us silly movies, make them funny.   "},{"Title":"Not a bad film.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film isn't fantastic, but it is far from dismal as many people here have made it out to be.Sure, the premise of the movie is silly, but most of these types of comedy movies are. The film is entertaining and Martin Lawrence shows his comedic talent again.If you think this film deserves one or two stars, you probably haven't seen enough movies. For a true 1-star film, go see Going Overboard with Adam Sandler---I bet you won't be able to watch it until the end.Black Knight is a pretty good film and I recommend you see it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"could the title be any more relevant to Lawrence's career?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  You will absolutely know if you'll like this movie or not from the trailers.There are no hidden treasures.  I laughed twice in 90 minutes.If you like new and innovative comedy, beware.If you like Martin making funny faces and dancing, rock on, this is your movie.Personally, I think this should have been made for cable.  "},{"Title":"Everything that is tacky, boorish and ignorant, rolled into one movie.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A perfect example of all the bad things people tend to think about Americans. Uncultured, boorish, unsophisticated, the list goes on.There was much gnashing of teeth while sitting through this movie. "},{"Title":"Bleccchhh!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to admit I've never seen a movie quite like Black Knight before, and of course, I mean that in a bad way. I've never seen a movie quite so unfunny.The only movie I've seen Martin Lawrence in that I actually enjoyed somewhat would have to be Blue Streak, and even that wasn't a great movie. Big Momma's House was another disastrous effort, along with Black Knight and What's the Worst That Could Happen? As you've probably guessed, I'm not a big Lawrence fan.Black cinema hasn't lived up to high standards in the past few years. While Boyz N the Hood is one of my favorite movies, this movie is one of the films released recently (same with How High, Bones, The Wash) that just happens to be entertainment aimed mainly at African Americans.I won't even bother reworking the plot because it pretty much stinks. It's a rip-off of Mark Twain's classic A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court that's neither funny nor innovative.How the studio that produced this garbage even thought of making it is beyond me because Black Knight shouldn't have seen the light of day. "},{"Title":"95 minutes of pure terror","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  B O M B. Wow! It is just hard to comprehend how terrible this movie really is. At the beginning when you see Martin Lawrence brushing his eyebrows with a toothbrush you know it is off to a bad start. To add to that the jokes are just horrendous. I sat stoned face until the end when you see Martin Lawrence's ugly mug pressed up to the camera. I don't know if it was the relief that the movie is over or that he is just plain ugly. Or because they were trying to set it up for an even crappier sequel.  "},{"Title":"Direct rip-off of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's court One of 2001's worst movies!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Needless to say I went to go see this movie before I went back to my job working in retail which is very busy right now for a laugh. I like Martin Lawernce but this movie was not at all funny . The best parts of the movie were in the trailer and TV ads. This movie is so bad I felt like I was watching a direct to video movie on the big screen. If was Martin Lawernce, I'd be embrassed to star in it. Maybe he had becasue he has a contract with Fox? Big Momma's House anyone? The movie itself had nothing great about it. The way the ending  is will a sequel be made out this trash. Please don't make a sequel to this junk!Save your $$ and wait for this movie on DVD and video! Also why was this movie not direct to video?This movie is one of 2001's worst movies for me. I wonder if it will get any Razzies next year for bad movies? "},{"Title":"How did this movie get made?","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I understand that movies are shot out of sequence and that the scripted work is sometimes altered under the director's guidance. The plot required not just the suspension of disbelief, but no belief system.  I considered leaving and seeing something else, and regretted staying in the theater to see this movie (for lack of a better term.) The only thing good I could say about this effort is that the lighting was good.The ending seemed to be an omen for Black Knight 2 -- I would beg the powers that be in Hollywood that this was only my fevered imagination. It will be a sad day if something like that was forced onto innocent moviegoers. "},{"Title":"Some good one-liners, but little else","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually paid $4.20 to watch this movie, and the only funny things were a few cute lines and that was it. Martin Lawrence tried his best, but he's made far better movies. And the time. This movie hardly lasted 90 minutes (which is actually a fortunate thing). Usually, movies that short have poor plots and little humor. This movie is no exception.The idea is so silly. Jamal falls into a pond, trying to retrieve a necklace, and he appears in 14th century England? That sounds like a day dream to me. I guess it doesn't matter to Lawrence, who only wants to degrade people and show how much better he is than others.Kevin "},{"Title":"Just not funny","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence is not funny. He wasn't funny on TV and has not been funny in any movie yet (except for the occasional laugh when he was playing Mama, not as a male character). This movie is a pure piece of trash. I was taken to see this movie (no way would I fork out a penny of my money to see any piece of work as ridiculous as this). It was a weak, at best, rip-off of the Bing crosby movie Connecticut Yankee in King arthur's court, but with out the charm of a leading actor with any screen presence. If I could I would rate this with a negaitve number but I guess a ZERO out of 10 is the least acceptable number. This film just plain stinks. "}{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever made--but it sure seems that way after Harry Potter","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Black Knight is an unforgivably unfunny piece of trash. Although the blame can be attributed almost entirely to Lawrence's craptactularly excessive performace, with a story so uninspired, lame and uninteresting, Black Knight was destined for turkey-ville before a dime was even spent. The embarrassing thing is that 20th Century Fox actually paid the lead $ 16.5 million and that the production value is frighteningly high for a film of such low caliber. Hollywood should know better--movies about guys being sent back in time aren't even worthy of direct-to-video release. Luckily, however, Black Knight will drown at the box office in Harry Potter's wake.  "},{"Title":"A ridiculously horrible movie, one for the bad senses of humor","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This 2001 Martin Lawrence film is yet another one of his horrific works of comedy. Martin Lawrence stars as a carnival worker and he falls into this pool and magically appears in the middle ages. He has these ridiculousy stupid adventures in which horrible lines are delivered.My friend and I went to see this movie for the sole purpose in which we could make fun of it. It turned out to be one of the worst, if not the worst, attempted comedic movies ever made. I can't even begin to describe to you its horror. There were some parts in the movie in which I actually felt uncomfortable, because the humor was so bad.Martin Lawrence is a horrific actor/comedian as well. I dont see why people find him funny, as he is a desperate for laughs, pathetic comedian. His attempts at humor are for the lowly and feeble minded people.Anyone in their right mind would not find this movie even remotely funny. I did not laugh a single time in the movie. This is a ridiculousy horrible movie, especially one for the bad senses of humor. "},{"Title":"So nauseating I needed to put my head between my knees.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If there's one type of film that simultaneously bores and infuriates, it is this one trick pony type where the entire script is the same joke over and over and over and over and over. I don't care what the trailers and the making-of said about the meticulous historical research that went into the medieval settings and costumes (balderdash), it still sucked. I hope that Martin Lawrence will find his true vocation soon. He does not act. He has failed to even make me chuckle once. Of course, I'm a Dennis Miller guy...I could be wrong. Note Unbelievably, IMDb recommends Braveheart too if you liked The Black Knight! Well, so much for the accuracy of IMDb's Also Recommends... "},{"Title":" SERIOUS Waste of Time","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As I watched this movie, I thought it might at least develop into a decent comedy - not!!   Don't waste your time. The plot is confusing and the comedy barely makes you snicker spuriously at best.  I expected more from Martin than this travesty. "},{"Title":"Jive Turkey","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a shame!! Costumes and scenery to rival 'Shakespere in Love' and a leading man right out of 'Jackass the Movie' Over-acted, over-mugged and over-jived Martin Lawrence single-handedly destroyed an otherwise competent supporting cast and story line. Perhaps only Jim Carey could have been more unlikeable and obnoxious. Time travel can almost always present a viable and enjoyable theme, but a modicum of restraint was needed on the constant barrage of Lawrence's 'cock-eyed' L.A. street jive, which got old in a hurry. Except for the dance lesson, the Black Knight would have been better portrayed by Mike Myers or David Spade, but then again the title of the movie would need to be changed to something like Loser Knight. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I never once laughed in this incredibly stupid movie. Martin Lawrence was not funny at all, and the movie could easily have been the worst medieval drama ever. I saw the trailer, and I thought that the movie would be good, but the only chuckle you ever get is from one or two lines the first time you watch the trailer. "},{"Title":"Racist silly garbage","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Racist in the sense that this movie depicts the adventures of a modern day black man from Urban USA, who goes to Medieval England and shows the English how primitive and ignorant they are. He even uses the term medieval at one point.  If the film were reversed and depicted a modern white man entering Africa and making jokes and outdoing the Africans with modern technology, the film would be banned. Instead, this film is called comedy. The film is pure trash. "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to comedies everywhere!!!!!!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a blatant disgrace to comedies (and I use that term lightly) everywhere. I was really stunned that people actually spent their money to see this bulls***!!! I am out of words, really, I don't know what to say because I was really appalled when I first saw it. I pray that no one would waste their money to rent and see this pile of dog s***!!! Please, if you are drunk when you're going to rent this, sober up!! If you're sober and you're going to rent this, sober up some more!! Martin Lawrence has really disappointed his fans by making this movie. I am truly disappointed!!!! Why could the film be like Blue Streak or Bad Boys. Those were good movies! Very good Martin Lawrence flicks! Go rent those for a change!! I feel bad the producers and everyone to do with this film because they have made a hall-of-fame box-office flop!!! Extremely flat and disappointing, I can't use any other word but disappointing to express how I felt when I saw it. Rating-0.000000000000000000001/10!!!!! It sucks big time!!!!! "},{"Title":"Utter Garbage","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  No plot, No jokes, No budget, No script, No actorsA complete waste of 89 minutes of my life. The film was utter agony in parts, and the only good thing about the evening was that the theatre was absolutely empty so I was able to shout at the screen without disturbing anyone.There is no single scene within the film without Martin Lawrence in, and the only time he is not on screen is when the camera flicks momentarily to whoever he is talking to.I really believe that some of the film is un-scripted and they simply gave Lawrence intermittent periods to be funny and act stupidly.From the annoying teeth cleaning scene at the start, right through to the pathetic ending, the film was awful. The middle third really really dragged.I went, expecting the movie to be very bad, it was worse. "},{"Title":"Ye Olde Garbage","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this movie when I bought a bootleg videotape of it a while back, and let me just say this. The quality of the video was almost as poor as the movie itself. Black Knight is TERRIBLE. First of all, the acting is non-existent. Martin Lawrence, you can do better! This is probably the first movie I've seen where an actor gets paid to act like himself. The director, Gil Junger, must of thought the movie would do the acting for him. Sorry, Gil. Second of all, there's no plot whatsoever. An amusement park worker accidently gets transported to the year 1328. That's about it! At least A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court was actually entertaining. And probably the greatest offense of all is that Black Knight is NOT FUNNY! The funniest scene in the movie is probably when Martin Lawrence brushes his teeth in the beginning. Oh sure, Martin TRIES to be funny, but all he accomplishes is making an ass out of himself. Poor Martin. I stopped the tape halfway through and put it on my shelf for use as a dust collector. OK, so I don't TOTALLY regret buying the video...If you want a good Martin Lawrence movie, try Blue Streak. Just stay away from this load of garbage.0/10 "}{"Title":"Very Bad","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Martin Lawrence fan- I thought Bad Boys and Blue Streak where excellent comedy/action fare.  However, I found Black Knight to be totally predictable and boring.  The jokes are stale retreads and missing is Martin's crude but lovable humor.  I would have found this movie slightly amusing though, if I was twelve years old.  Here's something I never thought I would say about a Martin Lawrence movie this is a good one for the kids. "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence didnt do that bad of a job on fliming this movie, it was just the idea and concept of the movie itself, it was predictable, very very un funny, and just stupid, no one thats innocent should have to sit through that movie. "},{"Title":"A LOAD OF SHIZNET...","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure, the whole idea behind the premise of the film--transporting a black man from the present to England during medieval times---sounds great on paper, with guaranteed laughs throughout...right? Wrong! This film did not elicit a single laugh--not even a chuckle--from me. What a waste of celluloid. Just watch this nincompoop, Martin Lawrence, embarrass himself throughout the film with a one-note expression on his face--i.e., the look of sardonic, bewilderment--and acting that's meant to be comical, but looks...well, forced and desperate.Probably one of the worst films I've seen in recent memory.    "},{"Title":"Maybe, perhaps, worst film ever","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"28 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is bad, no two ways about it. I don't think I'm alone in saying Martin Lawrence is a terrible actor (although quite funny in Big Momma's House) and his sneery smile and the fact that women don't seem to be able to resist him add to the farce of the film. As for a black knight in medieval times, he'd either be made a slave, or killed-Not racist, just the truth. Also, though it seems petty, why would a fake castle in California transport anyone to a real castle in England. Dumb, dumb, very dumb, very bad. "},{"Title":"Poor, Overall Poor and Nothing But Awful!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"40 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A ridiculous and insulting movie to the Old English History!At first i found it funny, but then it only Got Worse!Marsha Thomason's talent is wasted on this Movie. Thomason's inability to adapt to her role, is shown throughout the movie when she seems totally uncomfortable with her role.Martin Lawrence for his standard, was overall ridiculously awful, Old moves and Old Jokes.And not even good Old Jokes!And The Ali Schuffle wasn't made Anymore special in some of the, Fightscene's. His performance was Joke, and the Hole Movie was a Joke.I really Felt sorry for Marsha Thomason ho had her Talent wasted.In my eyes Laurence learned a big lesson  Do not bring America in to British History!Because if you do, the jokes must be a lot better!The Plot seemed alright but the movie failed Big Time!I think Lawrence must Find New Idea's Or at least Funny Old Jokes.This Movie overall was a Shambolic Joke!Because this was an awful movie that i wouldn't recommend anyone to see!My Score  1.0Groeten Gerrit "},{"Title":"I laughed one time during the entire movie","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"42 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I laughed once, at the end when he was trying to pick up the girl.  This was one of the few serious moments of the movie and I found it utterly hilarious.  This movie made me both homicidal and suicidal at the same time (yes, I'm exaggerating, but not by much).  I use this movie as a benchmark for utterly horrible movies, and I marvel that the NAACP didn't boycott this movie because of its portrayal of a stereotypical I'm-ignorant-and-proud-of-it black man.  I went into this movie expecting it to be at least as good as Nothing to Lose or Blue Streak, but it was one of the most agonizing experiences of my life.  The only consolation that I have is that I did not pay to see it.    Everyone is entitled to their own opinion of this movie.  If you thought this movie was funny and entertaining-I'm happy for you, but arguing that it is a 10/10 is ridiculous.  The only explanation for this is that people are trying to raise the rating of this movie to an undeserved level which is sad.  "},{"Title":"Dreadful unfunny 'comedy'","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't recall this being released in the UK and I only saw it because I had to sit through it on a very long flight. This film only made it seem even longer.How an actor of Tom Wilkinson's calibre got mixed up in this dog's dinner I just don't know - the money I presume. Terribly predictable plot done many times before doesn't help. The black star (and I'd never heard of him, presumably a domestic US product) does work hard but just comes across as manic and unfunny. A turkey I'm afraid, not the biggest around but clucking loudly all the same. "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the worst for Martin Lawrence. There were laughs here and there, but the plot of the movie was just stupid. And how many times have you seen when there was a person you saw before in the past and then saw a future one. Well anyways. This was a waste of my money. Not to mention that the theatre I went to totally sucked! It just made the movie even worst! But anyways maybe if I watched the movie again I might enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Martin's Crap Streak Continues","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think martin's funny. His TV show was great, Bad Boys was pretty good and Blue Streak is the best movie he's done so far......But since Blue Streak it's been crappy movie after crappy movie. First the corny piece of crap big momma's house, then what's the worst that can happen and now the worst of the three The Black Knight.Didn't laugh once. Stupid can be funny, but this just wasn't funny. The jokes have all been done. it's embarrassing.Martin, what the hell happened?? Blue Streak 2 can't come soon enough for this guy. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I am a big Martin Lawrence fan. I believe he has a natural instinct for comedy that few others have. However, this movie is absolutely horrible. There were few funny scenes and the story(?) was weak and lame. It is amazing that a star of this stature would accept such a poorly written script. Don't even bother renting the video. "}{"Title":"stupid movie!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was going to be a great movie but it wasn't i didn't laugh at all. I usually liked Martin Lawrence and his movies but not this one. He trys to be funny but he wansn't. At least not in this movie. I know that comedy movie wasn't suppose to be deep or anything like that but this movie was bad, it wasn't even funny. I know some people liked it but i sure didn't.  "},{"Title":"erm..yeah, stupidio","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I work at a cinema and saw this for free...yuck?!?! I didn't pay to this and I'm glad I didn't and feel very sorry for those who did, man, this movie was awful, so stupid......and unfunny, give it a razzie, there is nothing to be said about this thing......really, other then it Stinks...I walked out. Another Stinker to add to this years crop of bad comedies.... "},{"Title":"Yawn...","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I am sure if you like Martin Lawrence you will probably like this movie. Personally, I don't think it is really that funny. It feels like a Disney Saturday Morning Special. Sure there are few parts that are funny and a few parts that are mildly heart warming. Aside from some language and some sexual content, the only person that I think could possibly enjoy this movie is a little kid. Perhaps, I am not giving the little tykes enough credit, they may have enough savvy to think the movie is boring like I did. "},{"Title":"Pure Idiocy and an Insult to the purchase of a ticket","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After watching this movie, i knew it was one the new benchmarks of what a movie SHOULD NOT be. Completely inane and filled to the brim with stupidity and un-funny gags, this movie not only throws comedy out the window, it chucks it far away, and blows it up with a missile. PLEASE, do not waste your money on watching this movie. If you absolutely must see this movie to see what everyone is raving about, download it from IRC or the like.The movie plot is as follows Martin Lawrence is some guy who we do not care about and gets hit on the head with something. He wakes up in the 14th century for some reason, and, of course, the movie wouldn't be right without playing the idiotic Jump Around track that is played in every second movie.I have never commented on a movie before due to the face that other comments have stated what I basically intended to state. However, no other comment could possibly describe the incredible irritation this movie put me and others through.No laughs, no fun, and will leave you with an aching desire to punch the director/people who made this piece of garbage possible in the face.nil/****P.S. The 3.5/10 rating is too good for such tripe as this. It deserves nothing more than 0.5/10. The 0.5 would probably for getting people to go out to the movies and have fun with other people. "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one hell of a waste of cash. I went in figuring that it would be in the so bad that it's actually good category, but I was way off.I also thought Blacksploitation films ended in the 80s, but I guess I was way off on that one as well. I should have noticed this exploitation film a mile away, with a title like Black Knight.The only redeeming part of the film was that it eventually ended.After seeing this movie, I am left with several questions. -Why did Martin Lawrence decide to 'act' in this film? -How could the writer not be embarrassed by this horribly generic and unfunny product? -And why did I actually pay money to see Black Knight? "},{"Title":"Simply horrible.","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is hands down on my list of worst movies of all time.  It was completely predictable.  Now, some predictable movies manage to squeak by in mediocrity, but this was not one of them.  It just reeked.  It was poorly acted, poorly scripted, and just all-around poorly made.  Giving it one star is being generous.  It's not worth the film it's recorded on.  Do yourself a favor and spare yourself 2 or whateva hours of boredom and disgust, and DON'T watch this film. "},{"Title":"The most dire movie I have ever seen","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After just having watched Thirteen Ghosts a few days back, I thought I would try to get that horrible memory out of my mind by watching a relaxed laid back comedy. No need to concentrate, just sit back and enjoy.What did I get? A movie that surpassed Thirteen Ghosts in terms of absolute rubbish. The humour was so typical and so moronic. There was nothing original. Just the same old bumping into objects, falling over things, etc. etc. I admit that I laughed maybe once or twice when the script writers managed a rare glimpse of some real humour.Martin Lawrence was poor - he tried to act funny but ended up just looking silly. And what about that town?! Basically, I saw this movie as just another Mel Brooks cheap humour, poor acting comedy and as with most of Mel Brook's movies (except Spaceballs) it just didnt pay off.In all fairness, it might be a movie for younger audiences. Its got all the classic humour - people getting hurt, stupid faces, etc. So if you want to take your kids to see it, might be a good idea or better yet - if you want to punish your kids, then take them to see it! They'll never do that again! )1 out of 10 (let us vote O!!) "},{"Title":"(spoiler) arguably the worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my first time to comment on a movie.  I often vote on movies without commenting on them afterwards, but I felt that this movie deserved special consideration.  Pardon the vulgarity, but the movie sucked.  It lacked any sense of plot or theme.  Correction, the plot and theme aspects of this movie were so underdeveloped as to seem nonexistant.Now, I enjoy toilet humor as much as the next man.  I must confess that Dumb and Dumber is one of my favorite comedies.  The jokes in Black Knight contained no wit or originality.  In fact, the funniest part to me was the ending where he meets the lady in present day, which was supposed to be serious.  The pickup line he gave bordered on hillarity, but wasn't meant to be humorous. If a negative score were an option, I'd choose -3 to be the score of this movie.  If I had actually paid to see it, I'd want my money back, not to mention the time I wasted watching it. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch a 'Black Screen'","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When I went to leave a rating for this show, I was once again frustrated that the lowest you can give a movie is 1. Giving this movie a 1 out of 10 is like giving the pizza guy a two hundred dollar tip, it's being VERY nice. This show was so horrible I really don't know where to begin. What confuses me the most is that this movie was actually made. Anyone working on this set with any morals and values in their life would have quit and rather to make a living sweeping up garbage or cleaning bathrooms. I didn't laugh once in this movie, I didn't even smile...I think I heard somebody chuckle in the back of the theatre once, but it may have just been an echo of laugh from the movie playing in the theatre nextdoor. If you happen to go see this movie, and the curtains malfunction and won't go up, you can go home and tell all your friends that you witnessed a miracle. "},{"Title":"It Ryhmes With The Word  Knight ","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The plot for BLACK KNIGHT isn't all that different to a plot to a soft core porn film I once saw that starred Gabrielle Hall . Jamal Walker works in a theme park called Medievel World and by the power of magic finds himself back in not so merry olde England There's two things I wish to point out and that is the synopsis that mentions Jamal is knocked unconscious and finds himself in the 14th century is entirely misleading . Secondly any review that claims that this movie is is slightly better than being force fed ones excrement is also misleading Some people have mentioned that the major failing with this movie is that Martin Lawrence is playing an over blown version of himself . Hmmm and I guess if they cast Morgan Freeman as Jamal this would have been a multiple Oscar winner ? It's true that if you don't like Lawrence's brand of comedy you won't like this but is there anything good you can say about the movie ? The script has several credited screenwriters which is often the sign of a bad movie especially in comedy since the jokes here never ever work . One such scene is where Jamal gets a a bunch of medieval minstrels to play some funky Motown beats . It's a  joke  you can see coming a mile away and one that lacks credibility because instruments in those days wouldn't be able to sound like guitars or bass etc  But Theo you're missing the point , it's a comedy  No I'm not missing the point at all . For comedy to work there must be a type of internal logic and credibility . For example cast your mind back to BACK TO THE FUTURE where Marty plays rock and roll on his guitar and his audience are shocked because this brand of music is too radical for them and goes beyond their understanding of music . In this movie the King's court get with the program . Is it credible ? I'll tell you what it's not - it's not amusing There is another aspect to the screenplay which outlives its usefulness and that is the early stages of the film where Jamal is transported through time and space . Obviously we know that Jamal is really in 14th century England but he doesn't and that's where much of the alleged comedy arises from . But Jamal spends something like 20 minutes of the running time naively thinking he's in another 21st century theme park and the joke is stretched out for a ridiculously long length where it stops being funny , that's if it was funny in the first place Badly cast , badly written , badly made . Unless you think the phrase  Yo dawg  is the funniest thing you've ever heard stick to A KNIGHT'S TALE "}{"Title":"Pee-yew!!!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" My word. Dreadful. Never did I expect to see Martin Lawrence stink up the place as much as he did in this movie. Big Momma's house wasn't a good movie but it still had funny parts to it, Life was quite good but this, this reeks!!It's very similar in plot as to A Knight In Camelot with Whoopi Goldberg. i.e. Person with a personality flaw in need of a moral lesson goes back in to medieval times to learn it. The only real difference is that one was aimed at children and the other aimed at morons. Also I still liked Whoopi after watching her.And why, oh why do American film makers seem obsessed with Camelot? The number of made for TV movies I have seen with little kids going back in time to Camelot or Merlin arriving in the future to help someone out and teach a moral lesson. It's getting to be annoying.The only good film with Camelot in it is Excalibur. The classic and the only decent telling of the tale.Well now back to the point. If you like Martin Lawrence don't watch this movie. And if you don't like Martin Lawrence then really don't watch this movie 'cause you'll end up smashing your TV.The chick he got with was nice though. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence should be ashamed of himself for this horrid piece of junk. Black Knight earns the title of being the only film that I have ever walked out on.  40 minutes into this laugh-less tragedy I went to the ticket booth and received a refund.  This is one of the worse films that I have seen in a long time and I have seen some stinkers.  The jokes are not funny.  It plays like an extended version of the Martin Lawrence TV show.  Martin just does the same antics over and over again and they wear out quickly.  The tired homeboy from the hood in a new setting joke IS NOT funny!  The same old joke about white people not having rhythm is NOT funny!  It's been done to death.  Jokes about white people not having rhythm or not being able to dance are about as funny jokes about the sky being blue!  There isn't even a real plot here.  Just a string of jokes that aren't funny.  Save your money and time and skip Black Knight! "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie, because of the fact that it was pure garbage. I've never felt the urge to bash a film more than this one. The plot is terrible. Martin Laurence tries to be funny, but fails miserably.I laughed a total of two times in this movie. One at the Your daughter is a freak part, and then after the credits were over. I was laughing at myself for actually paying money to see this film. I don't even think that this movie deserves to be called a film.Why didn't this go right to video?ZERO STARS OF FOUR (X/****) "},{"Title":"Geez... what a crap","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Seriously, this movie has nothing for it - it's not original, it's not funny, it's not even well made. It's chock full of the most annoying of clichés and you don't only not care for the main character, you actually learn to loathe him very quickly. In the kings place I would had him quartered several times. And that's within the first half of the movie alone.If there is really a target audience for this kind of movies, they are better served with Whoopie Goldberg doing the Conneticut Yankee at King Arthurs court stint. "},{"Title":"A few laughs and then some more, when you're not supposed to","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence has had better, in fact it's hard to say who hasn't.  This movie starts off very awkwardly.  The premise is ridiculous.  The middle of the movie was not bad, silly but I laughed.  Wether I was laughing because of the movie, or at it i found it enjoyable.  The ending tries to be so serious I couldn't help but laugh.  Basically not a movie that I would go after to try and see, but if you do end up seeing it you might be able to enjoy yourself. (4/10) Overall Quality "},{"Title":"Let's hope there's  not a Black Knight 2.........","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" How much did they pay Martin Lawrence to do this comedy? What is truly surprising is to see an actor of the magnitude of Tom Wilkinson get dragged into this mess! (He must have had to buy an estate in the English countryside, or maybe he had to pay the taxes to Her Majesty's treasury..) The only thing one could think about is that this project must have sounded great within the confines of the Polo Lounge, or wherever they met to decide to do this picture. This is by far, one of the worst films of this year! Let's hope that either the business breakfast, lunch, or dinner was better than what this travesty turned out to be. "},{"Title":"Good idea - bad film. Possible spoilers","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This could have been very funny - as it,it sucks!Martin Lawrence is a comedian? Not in this. An embarrassingly bad performance highlighted by the desperate attempts by the other actors to make it good. The idea is ok - take the Connecticut Yankee in King Arthurs Court theme but use a black actor in the central role. Blacks were not unknown in the 14th Century but rare enough to cause interest; Moors, Saracens, Nubians, whatever. The whole thing falls flat because of the way Lawrence portrays his character - he falls into a moat at a theme park in the US and surfaces in a stonking great lake surrounded by thick woodlands. Surely a quick pause for thought - hey, something strange going on here - no, he thinks he is in the new theme park down the road from where he works. Then we get the large rolling eyes (I thought that went out with Amos and Andy) street talk and buffoon behaviour. I kept thinking Eddie Murphy, where are you? Marks out 10, -1  "},{"Title":"A great accomplishment! But in the BAD meaning of the word...","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When you first look at the poster of the movie you think for yourself Wow! It's an African-American guy in the medieval ages! It must be funny! Well, not only it's unfunny, this is one of the movies I couldn't keep watching.The basic a guy, who works in a park called Castle Park (how ironic, the movie takes Martin Lawrence back to the medieval ages... clever... RIIIIGHT) and after a new park called Castle World is threatens the business over at the older facility, our greedy hero finds an amulet that brings him back in time.. yada... And yeah, I know it's not the EXACT story, but you won't care 'cause 15 after the intro, you'll find yourself between a pillow and a blanket...Point is, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. See Undercover Brother, at least that one is FUNNY and it's actually charming in a bizarre way. Black Knight, however, is banal in a bizarre way... "},{"Title":"What in the world...","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Can someone explain to me how a Hunagrian national flag ended up on the wall of an English castle in the 1500s serving as the flag of the Lord or whoever was the moron running the show? Clearly they didn't check to see what country that belonged to or the person who hung it there had a really good time in Budapest the night before. On the other hand, I suspect that the entire movie was filmed nowhere near England, but in Eastern Europe where the costs are cheap. The movie itself is very childish, not child-like, but childish in theme and performance, but at least it is not as bad as some others set in the same period but to modern music. Martin Lawrence tries to salvage it, but even his humor doesn't work in this movie. The script is awful, the direction is awful, Lawrence does not come across with his usual image, such as in Bad Boys and BBII, the entire movie is just bad all around. "},{"Title":"Ace","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is so funny. White man down joke is a little racy, but I enjoyed this movie from beginning to end. Loosen up everybody, and enjoy. Although, in the beginning he was driving a mustang, and I thought there was going to be some dialog about it. Something about how he rides a mustang... I thought the jokes were hilarious. I think the marketing of this movie needed work, the movie would have done better. It didn't represent the naive element and the fun around it. I honestly don't think there's one bad scene in that movie. I think Martin was the only one for this movie, I can't see anyone else, and the actress was an excellent pick also. This is a great movie and I highly recommend it to everyone. "}{"Title":"greatest movie","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Martin Lawrence is a genius, this movie was so great. It had everything you want in a movie kings eating globs of peas with their hands, fast food in medieval times, and martin Lawrence playing the greatest role ever a black night. I know this review sounds like a joke but its really not, I don't usually enjoy really dumb movies (like scary movie 3 and not another teen movie, i hate them) but this film had substance and great humor and as dumb as it was, I just had a wonderful time watching it. I guess something that contributed to me loving this film was the fact that I love martin and although he plays the same character in every film, it just works the best in this one. Big mama's house is OK. National Security is a bit better, but Black Night is Martin's finest work. Anyone looking for a fun, stupid comedy to watch ( and who loves Martin Lawrence) should definitely check this film out. "},{"Title":"Transcends criticism","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" So last night they had this movie on TV, late, and as there was nothing else on (and it had a cast including Tom Wilkingson and Kevin Conway) I decided to watch it. And what a enjoyable evening it turned out to be! The movie started off badly, very badly. Then it got worst right until the part where he realises that he has actually gone back in time and tries to ride a horse. I was about to turn it off when it started to get interesting. One of the characters had a revelation and started to profoundly question the meaning of life. His answers lay in his belief in an unfallable pope and that God did exist. Then there was this interesting lesbian love scene before I woke up, switched off this piece of garbage and went to bed as getting a good nights sleep was more productive then wasting my time with this crap. I cannot rate this film as I only saw about 45 minutes of it, although that was enough. Also, believe it or not, this was the first ever Matthew Lawrence movie I watched and was not impressed at all with him as an actor. But then again most stars have made a fair number of duds in their time so I'll give him a second chance. "},{"Title":"Third rate time waster - but you will see worse!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A black  theme park worker gets dragged back in time to ye olde England.I haven't a lot to say about this comedy that manages not to produce one real laugh and even misses the target with a few sitting duck gags. Offending The King (of England?), for example. While I realise this is a comedy I am struck by how plastic and fake both versions of medieval England are. Beheading scenes and theatrical English apart they might as well be the same thing!This is nothing more than a plagiarism festival taking bits from Back To The Future, Blazing Saddles, Sleeper and every other fish-out-of-water movie ever made. What the makers have realised that this kind of setting allows you to do the same-old-gags (sports moves, performing modern music, falling off horses, etc.) and kill people too!What really sticks in my throat is that Martin Lawrence is doing an old time Hollywood black lead the bug-eyed moron who fits in because he can't be taken seriously as a person. For the record they think he is a Moor here! And hey he even has a black lady (Marsha Thomason) to chase - so that racial purity is maintained for those Southern audiences.  "},{"Title":"Appalling rubbish","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie seems to have been made by racist cretins. It could not have been worse if a member of the KKK had dressed up in a Martin Lawrence costume and performed. What an actor of the quality of Tom Wilkinson was doing in this dross completely escapes me. "},{"Title":"nice movie","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think this movie is fun. Martin Larence is always funny and clever. Even if some people think is anoying. The plot is very simplistic, but COME ON!, it isn't Matrix! Of course is never gonna be a bomb like Star Wars or Matrix, but you can have a great movie night by adding this movie to the list. Black knight plus popcorn and a nice sit and you will have a great night. end. i cannot write less than 10 lines so i will fill the next with some funny scenes of the movie. My favorite scene is hen they dance dance to the music he he he the royal choir cant follow the lead! is so funny, then he sings ... my horn blow sitting there on the throne ... and the royal welcomer do the music very sweet. I never get tired of seeing this movie. I can watch it over and over again.Martin Lawrence in Bad Boy and others movies acts just like in this one hilarious and clever. BTW if you have nothing good to say about something don't say anything at all. "},{"Title":"Neither the best nor the worst...","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" With Martin Lawrence you can't expect too much, even when he's teamed up with Will Smith. Lawrence's Black Knight shows that the man has talent but it also shows off some of the weaknesses in his comical approach. Basically I have low expectations for almost any film concerning time-travel (except for Time Bandits) but to a degree the film actually produced some rather believable scenarios (considering the stupidity of the over-all concept).The problem is that the film is composed with the classic over-the-top zaniness as being the main priority. Had this been a crazy-comedy it would have worked, but as is, it's rather half-hearted. Particularly the final battle was nowhere as convincing as I would have hoped.The film has a bit of a conflict in deciding if it is supposed to be aimed at kids or adults. Is it supposed to be crazy or real. Because it falls to the middle it doesn't deliver as well.On a positive note, the stunts were rather fine, costumes were good and the ending was also pretty fun. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you want a film with a history lesson, hook into national geographic channel. If, however, you have 90 odd minutes to spare, have a good old fashioned belly laugh or ten with this. Corny jokes? tick. visual humor? tick. couple of eurrgh moments? tick. Try and be in a mellow mood before you view, and you won't regret spending time with this one. Also, a nifty soundtrack, though not all over the film, and some great (although there is a bit of a theme) olde worlde talking gags. There's some great looking maidens in it as well. Considering it was made in 2001, it has aged quite well, but some sports references could leave you scratching your head. I loved it, and seeing as it didn't hurt anyone else, i don't care who knows it! There was a ready made set up for a sequel, but as far as i know, it never happened. If anyone knows different, please let me know, as i wouldn't hesitate to watch it! "},{"Title":"Nice, Enjoyable movie","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Black Knight was a really enjoyable movie, although it could use some improvement in it's storyline and some general tweaks -- like people acting better. I loved the part when Jamal Walker (Martin Lawrence), sang Dance To The Music. I really don't get all the really low reviews -- the movie wasn't *that* bad. I found the part near the end, where everyone tries to overthrow the king and his men. Why didn't Sir Knolte of Marlborough die from that fatal arrow shot? He even shot Percival and killed him! Also, why didn't Percival fight back when Jamal Walker was taking careless shots at him? And why did Jamal Walker suddenly know how to wield a sword? Very hard to get your head around those facts, but hey, it's a comedy movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, light comedy.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't think that this film was even one tenth as bad as many of the reviews I've seen. First, it should be taken in the spirit of which is was obviously made, fun, light comedy. Certainly, it didn't break any new ground, and I doubt that it will be remembered along with Some Like It Hot. As much as I initially wanted to HATE this film, I thought it was a noble effort by the star, who was wise enough to surround himself with supremely talented British actors (many from the legitimate stage) who both accurately embodied the realism of the time, and possessed the chops to pull it off. Yes, it used all of the typical ghetto dialogue and Hollywood plots, but it did it with such clever wit and attitude that I wound up being quite charmed by the film. Again, if you're looking for Malcolm X, don't bother. But for an afternoon's amusement, good, clean fun. I have no qualms about saying that I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A Los Angeles Yankee in King Arthur's Court","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" With apologies to Nick (see his previous 1-star review), I myself was tempted to big this film up with a 10 (whereas I think that it deserves at least a solid 8), simply because its current dismal rating of 4.6 makes me think that reviewers have been going out of their way to trash it. Of course, it's hard to argue that there's a conspiracy afoot given that the IMDb rating is apparently based on over 24,000 honest opinions, but, as with all polling, we can question whether the verdict is based on an appropriate sample group. This film, after all, was released just two months after 9/11, making it possible that it has yet to be seen by the majority of its target audience.And who is this target audience? In my opinion, it consists of nothing less than the same rainbow-colored mainstream American moviegoers who enjoyed Airplane! to the tune of $83 million in box office receipts. Speaking of which, I found the Dance to the Music set with Martin Lawrence every bit as funny as the Stayin' Alive sequence with Robert Hayes. Lawrence deserves an award from the Society for Creative Anachronism for his participatory demonstration of Norman dancing, in which he generously welcomed the court's one obligatory wizened old crone to shake her hoary locks like she meant it -- after inspiring the sleepy lutenist to come alive (to his own hilarious surprise) with a guitar riff worthy of Jimi Hendrix, until even King Leo himself, index fingers in the air, was out on the dance floor getting his 21st-century groove on.Not that Black Knight is another Airplane!, of course, but then it doesn't try to be. The movie doesn't need to rely on hundreds of one-liners and sight gags for comic effect, since the comedy stems directly from the absurd but fertile premise a premise involving a culture clash (did anyone else notice this?) that had never been exploited on film before in one sustained cinematographic effort (not even by Mel Brooks himself) namely, the philosophically revealing collision of excessively hip South Central L.A. with excessively clueless medieval England.I, for one, found it hilarious to follow the idiosyncratic Jamal -- this demonstrative champion of 21st-century inclusive humanism -- as he brazenly confronted the liberalism-challenged court with his modern Western world view that was at once so reasonable (to us) and yet so unimaginable (to them) that you could almost hear the modern-day concepts whooshing right over the clueless heads of the dumbstruck royalty -- played with such hilarious verisimilitude by the lordly trio of Tom Wilkinson, Vincent Regan, and Kevin Conway that I almost wish there were an Oscar awarded for Best Facetious Portrayal of British Royalty by a Male Co-Star -- in which case the female award for 2001 could have gone to Helen Carey, who was unexpectedly hilarious as the rhetoric-challenged Queen.So, begging Sir Nick's pardon, but I give this film two royal index fingers up and would fain that it were viewed by a larger and more appropriate audience in the years to come, in which case methinks that its current dismal ratings should riseth dramatically. "}{"Title":"An American Knight In Middle Aged England","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a little surprised at the harshness towards this movie especially considering that there are far worse films that have received far more appreciation. It's a movie titled 'Black Knight' and it stars Martin Lawrence so what was people expecting other than silly fun and some entertainment? Not surprisingly there are plot holes, historical inaccuracies and the dramatic moments are overly melodramatic (twhich was annoying) and the story is obviously far-fetched but for me the humour worked and 'Black Knight' has plenty of it. Admittedly Martin Lawrence can go over the top to the point of being very annoying but here I found him to be quite entertaining. Tom Wilkinson isn't given much to do but he does get his opportunity to make the viewer laugh. I particularly found him in his introductory scene. Luminous Marsha Thomason is very cute. I'm not saying that 'Black Knight' is among the best time-travelling comedies. It's certainly nowhere near classics like 'Back to the Future' or 'Les Visteurs' and it could have been way better where writing is concerned but 'Black Knight', as daft as it is, made me laugh many times which is why I don't mind it. "},{"Title":"The Black Mark...On Lawrence's Career.","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Black Knight (2001) Dir Gil Junger / Cast Martin Lawrence, Tom Wilkinson, Marsha Thomason, Daryl Mitchell, Kevin Conway There is no reason to see this film unless one finds the sight of someone swallowing a mouthful of horse manure to be funny. It is an utterly useless comedy with a racial title. It stars Martin Lawrence as a theme park employee who sees a mysterious gold object in the water, which sucks him into a world where knights prowled the grounds and castles towered the horizons. He sees it as an act until he witnesses a beheading. After fainting he awakens in a castle ruled by a tyrant King for which he ends up entertaining using modern music. Boring comedy trudging in formula waste and predictable gutters. Directed by Gil Junger who made the much better, but not by much Ten Things I Hate About You, although viewers may come up with more than ten reasons to hate this film. The production is decent enough but the screenplay is a formula miss. Lawrence is reciting his regular comic routine with predictable results. We know that he will make a difference in the lives of the civilians using his modern touch and we don't care. Tom Wilkinson is a sorry sight as the King. There is the stereotypical slave girl whom Lawrence sleeps with. He also beds the King's daughter for good measure. This film should be a black mark on his career. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Best movie EVER!!","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is absolutely my FAVOURITE Movie. I enjoyed it when I was 13, and I still enjoy it now that I'm 25. I Think it is very creative, and was just a great idea. Martin Lawrence is just awesome, he's got a great ability to add his own funny habits and actions to films, and it really pays off in this movie. I think its very funny, and pokes fun at the medieval lifestyle of the past and over all it just has a very good premise and I believe this is a very underrated comedy. Of the people I have recommended this movie, most have come back with high opinions.This is not a boring, humorless persons type of film, You have to be able to have a laugh without taking things too seriously to enjoy this.Whingy old men should keep there distance. "},{"Title":"An unforgivable experience","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There is a line from Alexander Payne's 2004 masterpiece Sideways, in which Paul Giamatti's lonely and depressed Miles describes his lack of purpose in the world as feeling like a smudge of excrement on a tissue, surging out to sea with a million tons of raw sewage, that has always stuck with me. It's a beautiful, poetic line he attributes to the work of Charles Bukowski, although I don't think it was, which perfectly encapsulates his feelings of emptiness. During my viewing of Black Knight, it occurred to me that this line also sums up the cinematic career of Martin Lawrence, black stereotype extraordinaire.His belief-beggaringly successful TV career made graduated into movies in the late 1990's, and cinema was forced to endure his mixture of prat-falling and tough-guy gun-totin', to which he was convincing at neither. But perhaps I'm being unfair to Lawrence as, after all, Black Knight was written, financed, cast, produced and directed by a whole host of people. all of whom should hang their heads in shame. It is a generic time-travel, culture-clash story in which theme-park layabout Jamal (Lawrence) is transported back to Medieval England, where he faces a corrupt king (Kevin Conway) and his douchebag enforcer (Vincent Regan).Never mind the complete disregard for anything resembling historical accuracy, offensively stereotypical black characters, the dirt-cheap production design, and the baffling sight of Tom Wilkinson (who, to quote my step-dad, must have been short of a few bob), it's the comedy void that we are thrown head first into that makes Black Knight a truly torturous experience. Clearly the writers think that a shout of holler! or the sight of a bunch of white people trying to dance is an acceptable substitute for comedy. An unforgivable experience. "},{"Title":"not funny by himself","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jamal Walker (Martin Lawrence) is a selfish slacker medieval park employee. The owner hoped for better for Jamal and her rundown park. Now another park Castle World is opening down the road and Jamal wants to abandon ship before it sinks. He sees a brilliant medallion in the moat and he tries to get it. It pulls him into 14th-century England. Jamal meets disheveled Sir Knolte (Tom Wilkinson). He wanders into the court of the usurper King Leo when he's mistaken for a messenger from Normandy. He meets beautiful Victoria (Marsha Thomason) who is one of the king's chambermaids and the king's viscous henchman Percival (Vincent Regan) . He thinks it's Castle World until somebody gets beheaded.Martin Lawrence is not funny by himself. His idiocy needs another person to bounce off of in a buddy duo. Alone, he's just an annoying jackass. He definitely has a ton of energy but he doesn't have the script. The setting looks like a built up Medieval Times. The King has a funny line early on where Martin Lawrence keeps failing to ride the horse even after everyone has stopped laughing. Even when it is no longer funny. He never gives up on the joke. That's the central core of the movie. It's not funny, but it doesn't stop Martin Lawrence from trying over and over again. "},{"Title":"Black Moor","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A very forced comedy.The only saving grace is a very capable group of actors playing their roles rather well.Martin just seemed out of place but then again that was what the whole movie is about!The beautiful Marsha Thomason as Victoria the Chambermaid was great casting as was Tom Wilkinson as Sir Knolte of Marlborough, Vincent Regan as Percival, Leo's Chief Henchman and Kevin Conway as King Leo.All in all, a very stupid comedy about time-travel that's not ever explained but still the Martin charm comes through as always. He can be annoying at times but on the flip-side he can be on-target-funny sometimes. Regardless, I'm glad I got to see it for the very 1st time. It took me 12 years but hey, I'm catching up little by little. "},{"Title":"This film is lot worse than a flesh wound","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Black knight is a painfully unfunny film, that hangs on the most obvious joke that a time travel movie can make. That is that the hero from our present time, will travel to the past and impress the locals by introducing them to modern pop culture. In the Black knight, the title role is Jamal Skywalker (Martin Lawrence) who after taking a knock to the head, wakes up to find himself in England of the year 1328 and be caught up with rogues who want to overthrow the King and restore the throne to the former Queen. Jamal is mistaken by the King as being a representative of Normandy, and thus finds acceptance among the locals. That is until he accidentally deflowers the kings daughter. Jamal finds help along the way , in the form of a disgraced knight named Knolte (Tom Wilkinson) who despite being a drunken present, is quite capable of returning to his former glory. The problem with the Black Knight is that the jokes are too obvious. In an attempt to stop an execution from happening, Jamal decides to terrify the witnesses by proving he is a fire generating sorcerer. How? By showing them his lighter of course! Worse there's a recurring joke where Knolte survives death 3 times! Hey,if its not funny the first time, keep repeating it until the audiences laughs as a way to pray that their torture may end. Those stuck in the predicament of having suffer through this trash will at least learn the following thingsThat any producers for a comedy film should write the name Martin Lawrence on a blacklist. That time travel fish out of water comedies like this and Encino Man are old, stupid unoriginal, and horrifically unfunny, and that the best time travel comedy, Back to the Future, was funny because its protagonist found himself in sticky and awkward situations that had hilarious implications. Black Knight seems to think that audiences will laugh in the opening when Jamal pulls out a nose hair. If the same had been done to the films writers, I might actually have a chuckle or two.3/10Absolutely disgusting "},{"Title":"Humor but not much realistic content","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The acting wasn't horrible, but it wasn't great, Martin Lawrence certainly made it humorous. The set designs were real enough for a comedy, they wouldn't of held up if it wasn't a comedy as they were very basic and the designing was of the most simplistic lifestyles. The costumes seemed to be a better part, only I found some of the clothing to be a bit back of the actual time, but the might have just been my lack of knowledge in this area. The screen writing was comedic but not realistic. Special effects and editing were only barely present, I found this to be a very light and simple movie to make and digest, it is not one to remember. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought...","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I found this film to be much better than I expected (I expected the worst), and I actually found it to be mildly (but only mildly) entertaining. The film is full of clichés and we have seen all of this before, but what makes it watchable in my opinion is Martin Lawrence. Like Eddie Murphy in his prime times, Lawrence has the ability to be explosively funny, he is full of energy and carries this ill conceived movie all on his own. I hadn't ever paid any attention to him before, but I have to say I will from now on. I just hope he is able to pick out a better project next time.Apart from that, almost everything and everybody else is quickly forgotten except maybe newcomer Marsha Thomason (most of whose previous work is on TV) who is good in her role as well as extremely beautiful... All in all, average fare, not a complete waste of time, but we have all seen much better. "},{"Title":"Messy Medieval Monstrosity.","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jamal Walker (Martin Lawrence) works in a medieval theme park until one day he's magically transported back to the Middle Ages. Bluffing his way into the royal court as an ambassador from Normandy, he gets involved with a peasant revolt.I don't mind Martin Lawrence as a rule, Bad Boys is berserker action fun, Big Momma's House has its moments and Blue Streak I confess to laughing at. But this is scraping the barrel, an unfunny spin on the time travel theme that sees Lawrence attempt to get laughs by bringing Ghetto speak to days of yore. That he doesn't succeed isn't down to him, he's full of his usual energy and gurning antics as always, it's kind of endearing in its simpleness, but the script (Darryl J. Quarles/Peter Gaulke/Gerry Swallow) is lazy and the direction from Gil Junger lifeless. Those actors working around Lawrence barely register as he blunders his way through scene after scene like a tornado in a greenhouse. Where you have to ask just what was Tom Wilkinson thinking of when he signed on for this turgid mess? I mean, he was Oscar nominated for In The Bedroom this same year. Now that's far more funnier than Black Knight all by itself.Moronic, in fact it's beyond moronic, and those who support such a movie should be rounded up, put in the stocks and pelted with rotting fruit and vegetables. 2/10 "}{"Title":"funny sometimes, painful most times","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Black Knight (2001) 5 word summaryman accidentally travels into pastThe Black Knight, though funny at times, is more painful to watch than I originally remember. When I first saw it in theaters I was young and thought it was hilarious. After a recent viewing I had to wonder, what did I see in this? As I said it is funny at times. Some of the lines and actions are really funny. Martin Lawrence at times saves the film and at times ruins it. He knows what's funny but sometimes seems to try to hard or get to cocky and makes things that could have been funny not. One scene that I did enjoy is the scene with the Lawrence trying to get the band to play the Sly and the Family Stone song dance to the music.Though it is sometimes funny, the key word is sometimes. More often your sitting bored than laughing. Even when it's not funny you can't watch it for a history lesson because it's ridiculous (which I don't fault it for, it's a comedy they can make stuff up if they want.) the acting is bad by almost everyone. Most of them can't pull of their lines or actions with a funny outcome. When a film is trying to be funny and its not, it gets really awkward and hard to watch, and that happened here.If you're a Martin Lawrence fan you might enjoy this film. Life, Blue Streak, Whats the Worst that Could Happen, etc, are all funnier and more entertaining, but if you like him enough this one might be alright. Younger viewers might enjoy it more as well, i know i liked it when i was 13. Other than that I would suggest finding a different film to watch if you want a good film watching experience. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A parody worthy of the label","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The previous comments seem to expect Shakespearean quality out of this movie, perhaps because the title includes the word 'knight'. This movie is, as many others before it, a parody of films set in medieval England. Others of this kind include Robin Hood Men in Tights, Princess Bride, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, A Knight's Tale, A Kid in King Arthur's Court, and so on. So many movies have used medieval England as a basis for their humorous story lines that to comment that Black Knight's use of the period is an insult to English history is monstrously foolish. On the contrary, Black Knight is a true parody not only of real English history, but of many previously told stories about medieval England, such as A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.The most glaring difference between those titles listed above and Black Knight is the type of comedy exhibited. The comedy in Black Knight comes mostly from its main character, played by Martin Lawrence, who this movie could be considered an exclusive vehicle for. It seems that, as in the movies of Jim Carrey, Mike Myers, Eddie Murphy, and the like, Martin Lawrence was given a script, but allowed to ad lib quite a bit. This adds his own particular style of comedy to the film. Therefore, if you don't like the comedy of Martin Lawrence, you may not like this movie. It looks like the idea was for everyone in the movie to play the part of the 'straight man' to Martin Lawrence, as very serious people dealing with a fool. But that is not to say that all of the jokes in the movie come from Martin Lawrence. For instance, Jeannette Weegar who plays King Leo's daughter has some funny parts, as does Helen Carey, who plays the queen.As for those incredibly nonsensical comments referring to a failure on the part of the NAACP to boycott this film, I have to say that the ignorance of those commentators is appalling. Not only do they exhibit a lack of understanding of what the NAACP actually does, but they clearly did not watch the whole film. Martin Lawrence plays a fool, granted, but he plays one with heart. He displays an understanding of what is right and wrong (his interaction with the thief), cleverness, courage under fire, and an openness to learn from his experiences. He later uses that knowledge in applicable circumstances and shows nobleness. His love interest, Victoria the chambermaid, played by Marsha Thomason, is a strong, fearless warrior, determined to fight the good fight, regardless of the lowness of her birth. She is smart, beautiful, and shrewd. When examined objectively, these characters would hardly be the cause of a boycott. And, contrary to what other commentators have said, Martin Lawrence and his love interest are not the only African Americans in the picture. That much can be seen from the character list. Jamal's (Martin Lawrence) African American friends and co-workers later benefit from his knowledge gained through experience, and show a willingness to change for the better.Addressing the production values, they were very good. In fact I'd say they were on par with Robin Hood Men in Tights, Princess Bride, or even Shakespeare in Love. Jamal's clothing was not as good as those of the other characters, which follows the story line that he was not from the area and was either wearing borrowed clothes or his clothes from the amusement park.Also, it must be mentioned that Vincent Regan plays a dashing villainous Percival, and Tom Wilkinson, who plays Sir Knolte of Marlborough, is very believable as Jamal's best medieval friend.All in all, this movie is not as bad as some say, but it is definitely no Shakespeare. Rent only if you want something really silly. "},{"Title":"Not racist - just senseless","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A loud-mouth urbanite (Martin Lawrence), who is a maintenance worker at a medieval theme park sees a shiny medallion in the park's mote, reaches for it, falls into the water, and is transported to 14th Century England where he must join the rebels and overthrow the corrupt king while getting the girl of his dreams.This is the premise for Black Knight, a comedy that is just as loud and annoying as its lead character. The film's flaws can be attributed to a remarkably cliché and tired script that somehow took a trio of writers to formulate, but a decent amount of the blame can be put on Martin Lawrence in addition. We've seen actors liven up stale material in the past, but here, Lawrence seems to quiver under the blatant asinine qualities of the film's script, resorting to almost infantile behavior - shouting, running around, and acting like a child. Consider the opening scene, which is a close-up of Lawrence's face as he obnoxiously brushes his teeth and flosses in the mirror, while dancing around his bathroom. I see this as only a desperate attempt at character development.However, Black Knight shoots for the stars, and while it falls vastly short of its goal, it managed to get me to laugh a few times. However, they were mostly towards the beginning, when Lawrence was first transported to the 14th Century. The idea of this loud-mouth buffoon adjusting to the life of centuries past sounds cute enough, and at first, Lawrence's outbursts and quirky comments are actually kind of funny. However, as the film goes on, Lawrence's face transcends to almost disbelief, as if he realized that this project is doomed financially and comically.The issue comes from the humor, which is entirely predicated off of the fish-out-of-water cliché of a character being taken out of his typical environment (in this case, the South Central hood) and placed somewhere entirely different either by choice or accident (14th Century England here). The film's formula goes as followed cherrypick elements from the time period such as executions, the lack of plumbing, and knights and warriors riding horseback and throw Lawrence's sassy urban character into them and have him either shout random one-liners or bouts of disgust while taking part in them.The film mercilessly plods along at ninety-five minutes, exhausting every possible plot-device and event possible in the story. This may, however, be a good thing because it maybe means that I won't have to sit through another film quite like this for a very long time.Starring Martin Lawrence, Marsha Thomason, Tom Wilkinson, and Kevin Conway. Directed by Gil Junger. "},{"Title":"Funny but.....","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Below average fantasy/comedy that is very funny only for a select few who understand A)African American ghetto humour B)Slapstick humour c)basic European history d)Martin Lawrence's style e)the fantasy genre.Not many are qualified for this movie.But for those who are,you also must be the type who can be forgiving of plot holes as long as the promised jokes keep coming.This movie delivers it's basic promise for sure.Do not expect a top rate production.Yes,this movie could have been done much better but what ever production shortcomings there were was not Martin's fault.Martin did his part well here.That's all I expected and that's what I got.I got my comic book ghetto fantasy itch scratched.Fit my requirements above and you too will be satisfied.If not,KEEP AWAY!!!!........ "},{"Title":"So what if there's no actual plot?","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" OK, so this may not be the most subtle movie of all time (it does have Martin Lawrence in it after all) but it IS genuinely funny most of the way through. Providing, that is, you don't mind your laughs on a rather low-brow level.Much of the humour is in the finest slap-stick traditions, and that which is not works due to Lawrence's trademark howls and reactions (see just about every film he's ever done), especially the shocked/'feeling someone else's pain' grimace accompanied by clasping hands which he seems to have claimed for his own.Of course this is not an entirely original film, and it wn't be remembered as a classic, but if you just want to laugh so hard you cry for 90 minutes, then this film is right up there. Just remember not to be snobbish when you watch it. "},{"Title":"Not immensely funny, but still entertaining","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm no particular fan of Martin Lawrence, but I've just seen Blue Streak and Black Knight, and they were both quite a bit better than I'd expected. While not enormously funny, they were still pretty entertaining, and more importantly, generally tasteful. Far, *far* superior to horrid crap like Scary Movie (and esp. the horrendous sequels), American Pie or anything with Leslie Nielsen in it.I must voice some concern about this movie (Black Knight) getting *600* 1 ratings. That's absolutely unfair. Without having any kind of interest in Lawrence's career, I still have to say that it smacks of a legion of less than level-headed Lawrence-haters having given the movie a 1 rating just to give it a bad rap (and possibly without actually having seen it). It's quite simply the only explanation. No way that many people could honestly say this movie deserves a 1 out of 10.My rating 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pointless rubbish!","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I went from hopeful to bored then straight to exhausted and annoyed in less than 30 minutes. The story is as unoriginal as they come. Even so, a scrap of humour could have saved this train wreck, but Martin Lawrence seemed to have shown up without reading the script, did it all flatly in one take and collected his money. The 'writing' was atrocious and non-sensical and the jokes were older than Moses. I was almost too embarrassed to write a review because it would be evidence that I had the poor judgement to watch this worthless crap in the first place. In my defense, I was taken on a date to see this (though I was mildly supportive of the movie choice at the time), and promptly dumped him afterwards. Awful! "},{"Title":"A prize turkey-if ever there was one.","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know why I sat and watched this film but as I did I couldn't help but think what all the actors (and crew) other than Lawrence were thinking as he pratted about on set in this ridiculous excuse for a film. Were they thinking it would at least pay the mortgage for a few months, or it's better than doing a 6 month stint in the theatre? The whole idea was preposterous and it wasn't even remotely funny. Perhaps there's a 13 year old black African American boy somewhere who giggled all the way through it but for me it was a complete waste of money, time and effort.I'm not a fan of this mans work, it's cheesy, clichéd and often crass. It's cinema in it's lowest form, not even eye candy.Utter, utter rubbish that should be consigned to the bin and all DVD's and prints of it immediately rounded up and destroyed in a 'Big Mommas House' fire. "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence meets budget cuts","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is essentially a piece of crap, but it's not without its charms I guess. Putting Martin Lawrence in a medieval environment and wearing that out for 90 minutes isn't that bad of a movie idea, but it could have been handled a lot better. The script is pretty straight-forward and predictable. You have Lawrence calling everyone homie, making everybody perform some hip hop song, referencing basketball players, really the kind of stuff you see coming from miles and miles away. It's still funny at times, but it's just so obvious. Lawrence does the best he can with the material, but can't really save it and also falls victim to some very awkward, unflattering close-ups. Generally I don't mind bad camera work in a comedy, but seriously, what the hell? This movie pretty much lost me with its conclusion, which is disappointing no matter how you look at it. There were so many better ways to end this. Either way, this movie is pretty fun at times, but mostly just looks uninspired. "},{"Title":"Good one but grow too much","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In Black Knight, Martin Lawrence plays an amusement park employee who is magically transported back to medieval times and helps return a queen to her rightful throne (while learning some valuable lessons along the way). Despite the script's lack of logic and originality, Lawrence is an engaging performer, with a loose-limbed amiability that makes him most enjoyable company, even if he's not necessarily a better actor than most comedians. If Lawrence ever does a movie with a decent script, he might really have something; as it is we'll have to settle right now for the cheesy yet funny sight of Lawrence teaching a medieval band to play some Sly and Family Stone. "}{"Title":"Skip This Nonsense!","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The latest Martin Lawrence comedy The Black Knight is a thinly-disguised version of the classic Mark Twain novel A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Sadly, 10 Things I Hate About You director Gil Junger and his trio of clueless scenarists, Darryl Quarles of Big Momma's House and Peter Gaulke & Gerry Swallow of Say It Isn't So, have miserably bungled a promising premise. Considering that these screenwriters have written such entertaining epics, you'd have thought they could salvage something from this mess. Alas, they fail. If you want to see what The Black Knight should have been, rent the hilarious Jean Reno French comedy The Visitors (1993) or the more recent American rendition Just Visiting (2000). Meanwhile, poor Martin Lawrence appears acutely out of place in this moronic medieval mishmash, and the laughs appear few and far between. The chief problem with Black Knight is Martin doesn't perform enough memorably funny routines. For the record, the only two jokes that work are Martin's '911--White man down' gag and his Rodney King impersonation. The other problem with this uninspired but harmless time-travel comedy is the sketchy, superficial characters that the talented cast struggle to flesh out. Nothing in The Black Knight remotely measures up to the merriment in any of his last three, giggle-inducing show-stoppers Blue Streak, Big Momma's House, or What's The Worse Thing That Can Happen. Generally, I look forward to each new Martin comedy, but even the previews for this farce augured ill for the comedian.The Black Knight opens on a banal note as homeboy Jamal Walker ( Martin Lawrence) tweezers out an offending nose hair. What is the point of watching Jamal go through his hygienic regime, especially after the preview has strangled the spontaneity out of this lifeless gag? Anyway, Jamal be-bops off to work in his late-model ride to his job at a third-rate fantasy theme park called Medieval World Family Fun Center. What are African-Americans doing running a theme park that celebrates white supremacy? Jamal and his gruff female boss Mrs. Bo stick (Isabell Monk of Sugar & Spice) have an adversarial relationship that is never developed beyond the usual clichés. Inexplicably, she has high hopes for Jamal over her other workers The bad news that Bostick delivers to them is that they are about to face rival competition from another medieval-oriented theme park due to open its doors soon. Jamal suggests Mrs. Bostick quit while she is ahead, take what money she has left, and head off to Miami Beach. Staunchly, she refuses to give in and sends ungrateful Jamal off to do some more ¯dirty work. While our hero is dredging debris out of a fake grungy castle moat at the entrance to the park, Jamal spots a shimmering gold medallion just beneath the surface. As he reaches for it, he looses his footing and plunges headlong into its grimy depths and gets sucked into a vortex. No sooner has Jamal hauled himself out of the drink than he finds himself face-to-face a tall drunken knight, Sir Knolte (Tom Wilkinson of Rush Hour). Sir Knolte has exiled himself, because he failed to help his Queen (Helen Carey) save her throne from an evil tyrant, King Leo (Kevin Conway of Thirteen Days) and his despicable right-hand henchman Sir Percival (Vincent Conway of Black Beauty). Things are pretty bad when the filmmakers don't even give the Queen a name beyond her generic title! During their initial encounter, Sir Knolte keels over and lies apparently dead. Jamal revives him by spraying breath freshener down his throat, and Knolte bolts upright alive. He congratulates Jamal for saving h is life. Gee, were these screenwriters stretching?! Believing that he is still in his own time zone, Jamal leaves an indebted Knolte and shuffles off in search of the freeway only to discover a genuine castle. Initially, King Leo mistakes Jamal for a Moorish ambassador sent by the Duke of Normandy to herald his impending marriage to Leo's nymphomaniac daughter Princess Regina (newcomer Jeannette Weegar) rather than a 21st century African-American custodian. The mix-up occurs because Jamal told a pair of unsavory castle guards that he is from Normandie Street in South Central, Los Angeles. Immediately, Leo welcomes Jamal with open arms. Not long afterward, Jamal saves Leo's life from an assassination, and Leo lets him choose the maiden of his choice to bed down with. Jamal takes a shine to one of the king's foxy handmaidens, Victoria (Marsha Thomason of Priest), who believes Jamal has come to depose King Leo. Pardon by medieval ignorance, but were Moors that prevalent in 14th century castles? The Black Knight is so pathetically predictable you can guess what's going to happen long before it does. Jamal relies on football tactics to reclaim the Queen's throne. Indeed, they build the sled that coaches have players tackle. Meanwhile, wicked Percival resolves to skewer Jamal on his sword when the real Norman emissary shows up. Naturally, by the time this happens, King Leo's randy daughter has bedded down with Jamal and he winds up in the dungeon with the other revolutionaries who praise his strategy. Another flaw in the mediocre script is Jamal takes far too long to realize he's stuck in 1328 A.D., especially when he checks out the privy. Other flaws involve the use of arrows. Evidently, a villainous character can take an arrow in the chest and die, while a heroic character can survive one! Director Gil Junger and his scribes have forged an unfunny, fish-out-of-water farce that doesn't exploit Martin Lawrence's improvisatory comic genius. Alas, Lawrence cannot compete with the Looney Tunes cartoon variation on this plot where Bugs Bunny was A Connecticut Rabbit in King Arthur's Court. Skip this nonsense! "},{"Title":"Amazingly rough and overlong.","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's interesting for me to see the effort involved in the making of Black Knight. The extraordinary effort of the production design, the subtle yet notable use of makeup, all of the action/comedy throughout the entire film and even Martin Lawrence pulling any rabbit he can find out of his hat, all of this cannot save a crummy script from itself. Black Knight is a half hour too long, with more information given and chances for comedy wasted.Jamal is a clean kid working at a Medieval amusement park. A chance encounter with a medallion in a moat ends him up in the real Medieval times, circa 1328, right in the middle of an uprising.I felt many scenes were unnecessary. The climactic action scene could have been done better. Instead of leaning on Martin's improv all the time, Black Knight could have used a wittier tone, such as the scene with the turnip thief, which was one of the film's saving graces. Or a feel-good entertaining film, and have scenes such as the dancing hall, put them throughout the movie and at least you would have something to remember the film by. But the constant exposition throughout Black Knight is a shining example of what to be careful of when making a film. "},{"Title":"Who green lighted this?","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Black Knight can be chalked up as a small blip upon the radar screen that is Martin Lawrence's career. Alright, lets be honest, it is one of many small blips that in essence make up Martin Lawrence's career. Don't get me wrong, it's not like Martin hasn't done any good stuff e.g. Bad Boys, Bad Boys II, Big Mamma's House, and his sitcom. But primarily its been just one unsuccessful movie after another. Black Knight wasn't particularly funny and the plot not that particularly intriguing. I did watch the movie from beginning to end like a mindless drone, even though I could find nothing of value to legitimize my watching. "},{"Title":"Bad, but could you possibly expect anything else?","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has been slaughtered in most reviews I've read. But what comes into mind is that this isn't a screen trying to be anything else than it is. The acting is bad, the story is thin and not very surprising, but yet it can be fun, in a foolish way. You can't expect to see anything serious, or anything well done, you can't expect to see a intelligent or creative comedy. This is plain fun, without brains or anything new. The fact that everything are almost as bad as it possibly can be, makes it fun, and I don't think its intended to be anything else, it is what it ought to be. Stupid comments, making fun of British history and culture, placing an African American back in the 14th century, this is what its all about. Don't expect anything but this, and you might, in some ways, actually enjoy this picture. "},{"Title":"Predictable? Yup. Fun nonetheless","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  OK. It's a _Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_ retread. You know that the hero will Learn a Lesson about honor and duty and save the day... ...but that doesn't keep it from being fun, and I had to like having the realities of medieval hygiene driven home. As a player and fan of early music, the consort instrumentation was to die for. The costuming was very good.Semi-spoiler they had two possible cliche endings to go for; I wish they'd chosen differently. "},{"Title":"Tis A Funny Tale","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought the Black Knight video (still with the vcr) expecting a silly, outrageous, mindless, entertaining, crazy, Martin Lawrence-stamped movie. And guess what -- that's exactly what I got!No more, no less.  "},{"Title":"A little piece that fits in my heart","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I know, technically speaking, that this is a bad movie. I know that most people would rent it once, be unimpressed, and forget about it. However, this doesn't stop me from loving this movie. I don't know why. Maybe it speaks to something intrinsic within my soul, I'm not really sure. All I know is, when Martin Lawrence holds that decapitated head in his hands and says, This looks so real. Oh, that's because it is, and then passes out, my heart just bursts with laughter. Literally. It's messy.To sum up, I think if you haven't seen this movie you should, just to find out if this little puzzle piece fits into your heart as easily as it did in mine.  "},{"Title":"'Tis Fun!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin's brand of humor is quite different from many comedians and this movie is a prime example. I thought it was cute, but not really meant for children to view.It's not meant to be taken seriously, therefore, you should go expecting to see silly, unusual antics. If you're looking for something deep then pick up a book.Just my two cents! "},{"Title":"PG-preteen","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Better know what you're getting into when 'Martin Lawrence' and 'PG-13' are in the same advertisement. It has its moments of one-liners like There was once a king, Rodney King, who once said ow....ow....oww.... This is definitely not for the cynical or even for the watch-too-much-tv crowd, because it will just be another cheeseball film. Kids might like it though (unless they're REAL Martin Lawrence fans).If you cannot make it to the theater, fear not; when it gets to the video store, you might even blow it off there and not even realize it. At least wait until you're in the mood. "},{"Title":"Better than Beetleguise!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been a fan of Martin Lawrence ever since he went crazy and ran amok on the streets of L.A. This movie brings back those cherished memories. He so crazy!The whole fish out of water concept is like a breath of fresh air. I know it's been done once or twice before, but Lawrence has a knack for comedy seldom seen since the days of Emo Phillips.My favorite part is when he threatens the white guard with bodily harm. How true! The guard must have been thinking Huh?. Knee slapping hilarity.Go see this film. Pure comedy genius. Mel Brooks must be rolling in his grave, wishing he'd thought of this one. Blazing Saddles? For shame. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently had the chance to view Martin's latest effort and was very pleased. Oh sure it didn't have the same element of comedy as his earlier work(It's a Thin Line Between Love and Hate/Big Momma's House), but it's definitely no worse than The Animal or Me,Myself, and Irene. Knight carries something for everyone without overdoing it, if you miss it at theatres, check it out on video for sure. "},{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence does not mean an Oscar winning plot.  It was a fun way to spend $7.50 and 1 1/2 hr.  It was actually funny, but of course, not as deep as let's say Spy Games...  When I read the reviews here, once in a while, I notice a tendency for people to ramble on, and sometimes, these good meaning folk do forget that everything has to be put into perspective...not something everyone has in abundance.All in all, not a bad movie for entertainment  ) "},{"Title":"this movie is awesome","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Your all haters. this was a great film. It wasn't artistic. it was stupid. but it was hilarious. The big battle scene is awesome. there are a lot of good jokes. Some people claimed that the whole go back in time to middle ages thing has been done before. Ya know why? BECAUSE ITS FUNNY! this movie is cool. see it. The scene where hes in the big battle breaking fire was crazy/awesome. Victioria is frigging hot. And dance to the music is one of my favorite songs. I think the only thing it could have used was some Monty python references. The title is black knight! and yet not one tis but a scratch!... i think. Then again, i was just a youngun the last time i saw it, so i guess you shouldn't take my word for it, unless your cool. and your cool...right? "},{"Title":"this movie was hilarious","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i'm sorry that so many people didn't enjoy this movie. being familiar with martin lawrence i rented this movie expecting to be entertained and i was very much satisfied. if you approach this movie expecting original concepts and a brilliant story line then obviously you didn't see the trailers or read the back of the box at the rental store. sure the movie is goofy and cliched but martin is the catalyst that makes it work.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I realize the majority of people who posted comments about Black Knight, did not find it particularly entertaining, however, I thought it was hysterical.  Just the sheer fact that Lawrence is wearing a Fubu jersey over his chain mail is a true testament to his ascerbic wit; I saw that and I had to watch the rest of the movie.  The humor is ridiculous, outlandish, and off-the-wall, just the way it should be in a Martin Lawrence masterpiece. "},{"Title":"I believe Lawrence's performance in `Black Knight' can be summed up with just one word phenomenal.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I believe Lawrence's performance in `Black Knight' can be summed up with just one word phenomenal.`Black Knight' is not simply a comedic portrayal of 14th century British society, but something much deeper.  It is a journey through complex networks of racial, cultural, and socioeconomic relationships.  In fact, `Black Knight' is not a comedic film by any means, and it saddens the reviewer to see it viewed in such a way.  What is truly being represented in this film is racial tension between the European and African man, played in the character of Jamal.Jamal remains a constant reminder to British society of its role in the industry of racial and international exploitation; he is dismissed in white society, but loved due to his lovable antics.  Truly, `Black Knight' is not only a representation of 14th century British cultural values and norms, but to a certain extent a contemporary commentary as well.For any individual truly interested in cultural, or post-colonial studies, I believe there is no better blue print than this film.  Indeed, I can think of no better way to spend 95 minutes of my time on planet earth. "},{"Title":"You can only watch this movie once","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw 'Black Knight' it was a new release in theatres. I went with a group of friends. I was laughing so hard I nearly cried. So of course, I eagerly waited 'Black Knight's' release to home video so I could watch my parents laugh as well. Let's just say the second time I saw this film I was bitterly disappointed.  My dad, who usually enjoys these kinds of films, only smiled at various scenes. So, as much as I enjoyed seeing Martin Lawerence as a 'with-it' black brother in a medieval court (that didn't seem to notice things that if he had really been in a real medieval court would have gotten him beheaded) in theatres, I have come to the conclusion that you can only see this movie once - and in theatres preferably.  Watching with movie at home, I give it a rating of */*****.  "},{"Title":"good movie !!!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i seen black night and to me i thought that it was really funny and i would go to see it again and i would even rent it on video too !!!  i think that any martin lawrence movie is funny because he is in them and he is funny. but you have to be a martin lawrence fan to understand his way of being funny i suggest that if you are not a martin lawrence fan then dont pay to go and see his movies!!!  give him some credit that he is making money the right way and not the wrong way. martin lawrence is a good person to me and i thought the movie was very good and it takes you back into time and makes you think about things. thank you !!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining--8/10","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know about anyone else, but I go to these kinds of movies for only one reason, and that's to laugh.  You have to let yourself not be so serious all the time.  It's OK to indulge in some escapist fare occasionally. Was this movie moronic?  Well, maybe.  Was it funny?  Hell yes!!  Did it entertain me?  Yes, a lot.  I loved it.  Martin Lawrence has always been good in whatever movies I've seen him in.  If you like to laugh and have fun, check this out.  Another Martin Lawrence movie you'll like is Life, co-starring Eddie Murphy.  It's more of a drama but still very good. "},{"Title":"From the school of 'Damn' comedy","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know what everyone else is talking about. This movie is hilarious...which is what a comedy is supposed to be. Anyone who gives this movie a bad rating or is trash talking the movie obviously came for reasons other than to have some good laughs. I laughed about once every minute. Whether it be the Al Sharpton/Rodney King/JFK speech at towards the end fight, the big dance sequence, the face in poop scene (if you've seen it you know what I'm talking about), the basketball entrance, the bathroom scene, etc, etc, etc. If you don't like Martin Lawrence then there's something wrong with you. Peace... "}{"Title":"Black Knight","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After seeing Big Momma's House and of course Bad Boys, I was keen to see quite a few of the black leading actor's films, even the ones that are not highly rated by the critics, but this one sounded worth a go at least. Basically at Castle World, the shabby and low profit medieval themed amusement park, is low level worker Jamal Walker (Martin Lawrence), who is magically transported back to England in the 14th Century by a special medallion in the moat. He explores the woods and eventually the kingdom, he believes for a while that everyone around him is acting like they are in the medieval times, even after seeing the old way of using the toilet, a beheading confirms the time he is in though. While there, Jamal is mistaken as a messenger from Normandy, and trying to fit in as best as he can, i.e. getting on with King Leo (Kevin Conway) and all the other people around him, of course his modern day ghetto attitude doesn't always fit. He also has many encounters with the beautiful Victoria the Chambermaid (The Haunted Mansion's Marsha Thomason), who reveals there is a plot to kill the king, she is part of it, because he has been hated by many people for quite some time. Jamal, claiming himself as both a messenger and a jester, and donning the name Sir Skywalker, has also gained an enemy with the mean Sir Percival, Leo's Chief Henchman (Vincent Regan). There is a legend of the Black Knight, it may in fact be Jamal who that legend refers too, as he does gain bravery to get Victoria and Sir Knolte of Marlborough (Tom Wilkinson) on side to make armour and go against the bad guys and return the rightful Queen to the throne. Eventually Jamal decides it is best to return to the present day, via the way he came, he is sad to leave Victoria behind, but he may have in fact found her again with modern reincarnation Nicole (still Thomason), before falling back in the moat again and transported into a Gliator themed arena. Also starring Jeannette Weegar as Princess Regina - Leo's Daughter, Daryl Mitchell as Steve and Michael Burgess as Ernie. Lawrence with his cheeky-chappy persona is quite funny most of the time in this film, and the modern day mixing with the olden days format is amusing in many moments, so it's a reasonable comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I hate to say it, but this was about as bad as Big Momma's House 2. If the comparison isn't apt, then I'll have to say that it's worse. The blending of a contemporary moron with a medieval setting isn't fun, or clever, or even amusing. It was just plain awful.This tried to be the average man's A Knight's Tale, and fell flat on its face. In all honesty, the 4.0 rating this work currently enjoys here at IMDb is very generous. I don't know WHAT people were thinking to rate it that high, but there's honestly no accounting for taste.Do something else. Pull your own teeth with a fishing line and a heavy wooden door, rather than see this, it's just that bad.It rates a 1.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"No Sir, I don't like it.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a comedy with zero plot, dull characters and simple thought out comical moments. The movie merely serves as a vehicle for Martin Lawrence to do his same old routine of lots of screaming, jumping and acting like a tough talking, cool looking, naive person.Guess that in its core the movie still had some good comedy potential. I mean the story of a modern African-American getting stuck in the early 14th century, during the medieval times scream for some good and simple jokes about cultural differences between the different time periods. There are some good jokes made in the movie but everything feels so staged and forced that it at the same time gets highly unfunny.Guess the main character also doesn't help an awful lot. He is about as dumb and thick as they can get. I mean it takes him literally 30 minutes to understand that he's in a 'real' medieval world and not at a theme park. But also after he learned this he doesn't pay much attention to his clearly too 'modern' language and clothing. It makes the main character stupid but not in an amusing sort of way, like in many other comedies often is the case.The movie itself actually pays very little attention to the plot line. There isn't really much happening and only toward the ending of the movie, the movie is starting to pay attention to its story. Too little too late I'm afraid.It's not like the story makes a lot of sense either. During that time not many black people were around and those that were, were definitely not treated as kindly as portrayed in this movie. Almost every character obviously sees a black person for the first time but nobody seems to be really bothered and everyone, good or evil, accepts his presence immediately. The 'evil' king (quite frankly I didn't see in this movie exactly how he was evil) even makes him a Lord at one point. But portraying things otherwise would of course had been considered to be racist and not political correct. But some more jokes about this still sensitive subject wouldn't had harmed the movie. For some reason I have the feeling that Martin Lawrence himself objected to a this kind of an approach.The movie is fair enough looking with its sets and costumes and obviously cost more than the average genre movie. A waste of a good budget you may say. Next time they should spend it on a better director, writers and an actor who isn't full of himself and plays basically the same character in every movie that he appears in.Yes, of course the movie still has some good moments to make this movie still somewhat watchable but it overall is way too disjointed, simple and not thought out well enough to consider this even a good enough genre movie.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I always thought to be a comedy a movie must be funny, this film disproves this theory. There is nothing amusing or funny about this story or the actor Martin Lawrence. Possibly the only interest one may have in this film is to wonder why a company would invest vast sums of money or time into producing it. Surely a priority in financially backing a venture of this type would include the most basic check of the script but obviously the person responsible for reading it must have been sick that day. Perhaps they did read it and went home sick and the message was never passed on to the powers that be, this is awful and should never see the light of day. I'm sure the crew and cast tried their hardest (perhaps Mr Lawrence didn't have to try so hard) and when its all said and you can't eat pride, everyone needs to earn a dollar. Lets hope they all went on to be involved in a production they and viewers would discover to be far more rewarding than this effort. "},{"Title":"Lighten up, people!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was middle of the road. You'll laugh a little and then it's over. Not great, not good, but ok and in no way deserves the reviews it's getting here. If you don't understand ghetto humor, don't watch, because your white ass will miss half the jokes. "},{"Title":"I had a knight full of laughter watching this!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While this by no means Martin Lawrence at his best, it is still a funny movie. The culture clash jokes are well milked and there is even a little action in it. Martin is hilarious and Tom Wilkinson is likable as a drunken knight. "},{"Title":"Black Moron","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a moron, like watching a moron, and have no qualms about giving your money over to see this MORONIC movie...then you should really enjoy it! If however, you wish to see the CLASSIC that this piece of garbage (not to offend garbage here) is based on, then do your BRAIN a favor and RUN out and rent A Conneticutt Yankee in King Arthur's Court starring Bing Crosby....even the old Warner Brother's CARTOON starring Bugs Bunny in A Conneticutt Rabbit in King Arthur's Court is LEAPS & BOUNDS better this CLAPTRAP. A new rule exists in my home... No Martin Lawrence movies are allowed to appear on my TV screen! "},{"Title":"Lawrence was very funny","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is the sort of thing Martin Lawrence does best. While he's not going to win any Oscars, I thought he was really funny, especially when he believed he was still in the present and that he had somehow wound up at a very authentic theme park. It is that element of confusion that makes this different from the other numerous variations on 'A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court'.I thought Marsha Thomason (as Victoria), Tom Wilkinson (as Knolte) and Kevin Conway (as King Leo) did very well in their roles, helping to make this more than just a goofy comedy. But of course it was the comedy that made this work for me, as well as the efforts to right those wrongs done to the people, and Jamal's clever schemes to stay one step ahead of the executioner.One standout moment came when Jamal taught the 14th-century musicians to play Motown. The people seemed to like this new music! I highly recommend this movie to those who like this kind of comedy. "},{"Title":"Martin is goood - the whole cast is goood","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have no beef with you, dog! Not a classic but a very refreshing movie. Well above the middle scale. Nice scenery - well worked dialogs and the general performance is very acceptable. Definitely a 7+ "},{"Title":"Lawrence is the whole show, but doesn't have much help","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Likable but disappointingly uneven comic fantasy about a disgruntled medieval theme park worker who unexpectedly (not to mention inexplicably) gets transported to 14th century England. Trying to make the most of his awkward predicament, he reluctantly gets involved in a plot to overthrow the tyrannical king. There are some truly funny moments and Lawrence as always has lots of energy, but all of his enthusiasm can only carry a mediocre script so far; intermittent laughs and a familiar fish-out-of-water premise cause things to wear out long before the finale. The film's final scene is expected but definitely effective. **½ "}{"Title":"Good Movie, Despite the fact that martin L is a Loser","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah the movie was very funny, I don't understand alot of the commentary made by people calling this a racist film.  I think that is the dumbest thing I've ever heard, to take a comedy and create Political nonsense is STUPID. WAKE UP!  The only racist is you, the ones creating it out of nothing.  Martin is a creep and I've seen him in action when filming..........He has the worst ego in the biz, but this movie was quite entertaining.  Not cause of Martin, but because of the time period, I love this era.  If your expecting an oscar winning flick, do not rent this flick.............it is only for the creative and imaginative whom see people as people and not as oh, why did it have to be a black guy being called a moore or the script was racist  if you are one of these people...........go rent Roots and leave the issues alone for crying out loud.  This is a commentary on great, good or bad movies, not political Jargon......This movie get's  6/10 from me.  "},{"Title":"Diversity Period Drama","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's about time we had a period drama with a black protagonist. Pity  it had to be an American, as well as being a comedy. Because it's Martin Lawrence you wouldn't take this film seriously, but it is a fresh approach to period dramas and it would be good to have some Black English actors in them. "},{"Title":"Scandalously low rating","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Fight Club, Citizen Kane, Sixth Sense, Casablanca. Just some of the high ranked films that I would rather watch Black Knight again, instead of. As a comedy it's 10 times funnier than anything to have come out of the Adam Sandler / Jim Carrey tripe machine too.Unfortunately though this isn't a great film. It starts well & Martin Lawrence works wonders with the script. Sadly though it's a script that lacks any direction & tails off the longer it goes on.But nevertheless there's a handful of laughs in it, it's well worth a look and deserving of a ranking at least 2 marks higher.A high 5/10 "},{"Title":"one of Martin Lawerence's better films","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  By no means am I a Martin Lawerence fan. I fully expected to hate this movie because the last ML film I saw, What's the Worst that Could Happen, wasn't too good.  But, I didn't hate this. Sure it is dumb and silly, but what do you expect from a movie like this. I did get a couple of laughs, especially in the beginning when he still hasn't got the fact that he went back in time to England. How can one not laugh when he sees the castle's toliet and makes reference to the fact no one is going to pay when you have to wipe your a** with straw(when he thinks the castle is a hotel).  Of course, it got really bad when we have to hear his pep talk to the peasants, and you already know how the final boring fighting scene will end.I did wish the writers could have come up with a better way for him to go back in time.  Instead of using their imagination, they picked the easy way out.FINAL VERDICT  The first half hour has some laughs, but then it starts to get boring when ML has the dancing lesson scene and the pep rally. I wouldn't go out of my way to see this, but it is not the worst movie of the year.  If you don't mind silly plots, then I would recommend this if you catch it on cable.  "},{"Title":"Quite *very* funny","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know why a lot of people around here seem not to like it. I laugh at it from the begining to the end. My friends also did. Doesn't have intelligent jokes but... it's a casual *good* American comedy. A nice movie to see when you are in a bad mood.  "},{"Title":"Way Under-rated. It's not Incrediby funny, But, Hey, It's entertaining!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Come on! This Movie is way under-Rated! Doesn't deserve to be called a film?!? The Worst Movie I have ever Seen?!? Come on. Have a heart. It's funny. It's entertaining. You people are just a bunch of old stuck up snobs that are expecting a Monty Python's Flying Circus Level of Comedy from it. It's fun to watch. Here's the basic story A man living on Florensce St.  works in a fake castle amusement park as a janitor, one day finds out he is going to get a job at the rival castle theme park Castle World soon with his buddy. While cleaning the moat, he sees a glowing amulet in the water and tries to grab it while his friend gets a net, he gets sucked into the water and gets thrown back into Merry Ol' England in the Year 1328. He gets mistaken as a messenger from another castle by the King. He must find a way home and kill the evil king..Blah,Blah,Blah,Blah. I saw this on PPV a few months ago and It was pretty good, although predictable at times and fun to watch. I recommend this movie to anyone who isn't a stuck-up snob expecting too much. And anyone who likes comedy. It's good! Trust me. I Give it 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"An under-rated, hilarious film.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  ***Starring Martin Lawrence, Marsha Thomason, Vincent Regan, and Tom Wilkinson.How could anyone say that this movie is the worst movie they've ever seen. Come on!  Give this movie a break.  A big break.  The movie was hilarious. Martin Lawrence plays a medieval theme-park worker who travels back in time to the middle-ages and is mistaken for a royal person.  Tom Wilkinson plays a washed-up knight who is now a poor piece of crap, he comes to play as a valuable person later in the story.  Marsha Thomason plays the woman who Lawrence falls for.  Vincent Regan plays the bad guy who is nothing more than a sexual-harasser bad guy.  Him and Lawrence's fight was entertaining. Overall people should just give this movie a break.  It's funny and hysterical.  The movie is open for a sequel. "},{"Title":"awesome slapstick hilarity - ML at his absolute best","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, what can I say about this one? My friend rented it the other night and I was skeptical to say the least. I mean, this is the same guy known for renting such gems as Escape From LA and Daylight on the same night. But Martin Lawrence's range with physical comedy, matched by Quarles' rousing and entertaining script made me into a believer real quick. All I can honestly say about this film is, when Martin Lawrence falls into the fake moat at Kingdom World (or whatever) and is transported into the medieval era - I sort of felt like I was being transported also. Magical filmaking that only the creator of Empty Nest could bring you. Did I mention that Martin Lawrence is very funny in this one? He carries the show with many cool one liners and hip, gangsta-like references. In fact, if I were walking down a dark alley one of the last people I'd want to meet would be Martin Lawrence. His is gangsta-supa-fly flava that oozes out onto the big screen. He is super cocky-cool. Jimbo, werd up, your rousing approval written on July 1st, 2002 is dead on. If I was expecting Citizen Kane, I should have rented it. For a slapstick/goofy/dumb/idiotic/spineless/horrendous/dumb/gangsta-flava comedy I give it an 11/10!  "},{"Title":"i cant beleive it got so many good ratings (may contain spoilers)","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i cant beleive how many good reviews this movie got. i fell asleep after the part where he meets the dethroned queen and i had nightmares about a sequel. and that someone would actually give this movie a 10 out of 10 stars is beyond me and the fact that he wanted a sequel just reminds me what kinda brainless people are watching movies these days. one thing i did agree with was that is was horrible for imdb to compare it to braveheart! i mean come on a sequel? what would they base the storyline on? the black knight now working at the newly opened castle world who finds a necklace in the moat and it all happens again? 1/10 stars "},{"Title":"This was hilarious, but...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  OK.  First things first  1) I laughed so hard at parts of this movie, I was almost kicking; 2) I laughed so hard at other parts of the movie, I was almost kicking; 3) I never expected to laugh this hard at this movie; 4) You have to like physical humor.  HAVE TO.OK.  Second things second 1) If you want a really engaging character-driven plot line, go see The Big Chill; 2) If you expect a great plot, check yourself before you wreck yourself; 3) What in God's good name did you expect from this movie?  A great plot?  C'mon, get real--it's a slapstick comedy.This movie is not about a plot.  It doesn't have to be, it has Martin Lawrence in it.  Blue Streak was boring.  Bad Boys certainly had its moments.  Life (w/ Eddie Murphy) was OK also.  Let it be known that I am not a person who will like a movie just because it has Martin Lawrence in it. That being said, Martin Lawrence was absolutely hilarious in this movie. This was a jewel of physical comedy from him.This movie is not about some ironic/comi-tragedy that makes you laugh intellectually or smile wryly.  This was about his situation.  Granted, you have to make a mental leap with what happens to send him back in time, but it is a very funny movie if you can do that.  If you can't do that, then you'll severely dislike this movie.At first, Martin Lawrence doesn't believe where he's at, so he's acting completely out-of-place--which turns out to be hilarious.  Then, once he realizes he really is where he is, he has no choice but to be himself--which is equally as funny.  When will you ever see a guy from South Central L.A. in Medieval England interacting with them?  How about him trying to teach 14th century English folks syncopated rhythms about 600 years too early? Truly funny.If you can get over the plot, and subsequently get over yourself, you have a good chance to really like this movie.  This movie was no 10/10 but it certainly was not a lowly, disparaging 3.6.  I would give this a 6.5/10. After all, you can't completely ignore a flat plot line.  The laughs prop this baby way up--which would make me want to watch it again some rainy Saturday afternoon. "}{"Title":"Not a bad movie to see on a Saturday afternoon","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I like the mid-evil idea, but it just feels like I have seen too many of these kind of movies in the past. Still, it was very enjoyable and I will recommend it for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"It was a good movie","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"    Martin Lawerence did an okay job in this movie he portray's aman named Jamal Walker who works at a medeveiled  amusement park. When he was working he found a medallion inthe mout and was trying to reach and he fell in the water and it waslike a time  portal sending him back through time. During themovie he does somethings funny but  there's lame parts to themovie but overall it is a good movie even through the criticsbombed it                   go see the movie. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a funny movie if you want something light, silly, and enjoy black slapstick humor.  Also it's a great antidote to the bloated self-importance of the Lord of the Rings.  I put it in the same category as DC Cab, and it makes a good complement to A Knight's Tale. "},{"Title":"You have to be a fan","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Unless you are a huge fan of Martin Lawrence don't go see or rent this movie. It rather sucks, a much more entertaining movie to watch about life in mid-evil times is last years A Knight's Tale, has a better soundtrack too! "},{"Title":"Great Simple comedy   **** out of ****","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The  movie  was  very  simple, sometimes  you  knew what  he was  going to say. I  was laughing throughout the  film.  I  am  not a  Martin Lawrence fan,  usually  found  him to   be  ok funny to  offensive.  Last  night  I was surprised  at the  humor.I  would  not  rate  it as a  family  movie  since in  mixed  company it would  not  be good, it  uses some adult innuendos.I  found the  movie  extremely  funny though  at times it  was very predictable.  I  then read the  other opinions  on  IMDB and  could  not understand  how the movie could  be so  put  down.  Granted  I  do not put the  movie in the  fine art Category, but  very few  modern day movies can obtain that rating.   It  is a simple  Comedy that made  me  laugh  a bunch.If  you  want  a good  simple comedy  that pokes  fun  at  lots  of different things like the  modern day  culture and  the  middle ages this is  right  for  you.  It  does  have  Crude humor,  but it is a  very fast comedy.i  give  this  movie  **** out  of  ****  "},{"Title":"Three strikes you're out","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There once was a comedian named Martin Lawerence he made good movies until the year 1999 with the piece of rubbish Blue Streak. He struck out again with What's The Worst That Could Happen and now's he made Black Knight. Black Knight is full of bad acting, cliched jokes and it's boring. I only reccomned this film for the little ones. It's gonna take a whole lot for Martin to redeeem hisself after this. "},{"Title":"Lame, plain and simple","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew from the first preview I saw that Black Knight would be corny and full of predictable jokes, but I thought the jokes would at least be entertaining and make me laugh.  Uh, no.  The plot was incredibly boring; my sister's best friend fell asleep within 20 minutes.  There was too much sentimental cheesiness for Martin Lawrence to pull off.  I personally think it would've worked better with a more energetic, younger lead, like Chris Tucker. "},{"Title":"Not awful, but predictable and far from great","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First of all I've read some of the uptight reviews here and all I can say is some of you take these movies way too seriously.First things first. It's a COMEDY.Not to be taken seriously to start with.But I will say that I wonder how screenplays like this can get green-lit.Martin Lawrence had a unique style when he first came out back in his 'House Party' days, but it's stale now.The film drags on one joke for almost half of it.It was fairly amusing at first that he had no idea he was more than eight hundred years into the past, but they dragged this joke on forever and it became less and less funny with each passing moment.That was about the funniest thing in the film and as I said it became boring after a while.Other little idiotic things that bug me is how can a woman get her throat cut and get up like nothing's happened...the same with Knolte (Tom Wilkinson) after he supposedly dies by an arrow to the heart, and the explanation for this is never given (maybe he was wearing something underneath his clothes to stop the penetration of the arrow).Comedy is one thing, becoming stupid and unrealistic is another. "},{"Title":"Basic, simplistic and not very funny &#150; it fills the time but does nothing more","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jamal is an employee in the theme park Medieval World but is planning a move to the soon-to-be-open Castle World. When cleaning the moat he spots a glowing necklace in the water and tries to get it only to fall in headfirst. When he comes out of the water he finds himself in a wood with Medieval people around him. Assuming he is near Castle World, he heads for the castle to get a job he finds himself mistaken for a messenger but plays along to try and impressive his prospective employers. However a beheading convinces him that something is wrong and, accepting the idea of time travel easily, he soon finds himself involved in a plot to remove the king from power and return the queen to her rightful position.In case you didn't notice, Martin Lawrence is black. And, y'see, they didn't have black people in the olden days &#150; so imagine the hilarity that would ensue if Lawrence were to travel back in time to the 14th Century and help the King get his groove on, get freaking with the maidens and lead a rebellion? In case you don't want to imagine, then let me assure you that very little hilarity ensues in this very uninspiring film that even fans of Martin Lawrence will find hard to enjoy. From the very first scene of Lawrence mugging in a bathroom mirror you know what you're in for &#150; but I blame myself for not bailing out at that point. From here on it we have lots of black fish out of water jokes, none of which are that funny and just sees the race card being played in every other line. It is rarely funny and it gets tiresome very quickly. The attempts to bring in a plot of sorts in the second half are far too little, far too late.I actually enjoy Martin Lawrence because, as much as I hate myself for it, I do find him funny sometimes &#150; but this was not one of those times. He is lumbered with poor material and he can do nothing to improve it &#150; pulling faces and such do nothing to make it better. God knows what Tom Wilkinson was doing here (apart from getting a payday); he adds a bit of class but not enough. Thomason is the only black maid for a million miles and takes it all too seriously but is still pretty &#150; which is what she is really there for. The rest of the cast are OK all things considered but none have anything to do other than be straightmen for Lawrence's mugging and falling over &#150; a pretty thankless task.Overall this is just what it looks like &#150; a black fish out of water comedy where all the jokes are about race and as obvious as you like. It isn't funny and the plot is fairly inane and, although it is mildly distracting, even fans of Martin Lawrence will struggle to find much to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A is for AWESOME!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  oh man i love this movie so much...and its even better en espanol!  you know how to kick it Martin Lawrence!  and the cinematography, spectacular! this whole thing is totally oscar worthy...or at leats was, back in the 2 to the 0 to the 0 to the 1.  awe yeeeeeeaaaaahhh, you really know how to kick M to the L!  i mean, i was just kickin it in my hizouse when i put on hbo latino and i was majically transported into this like world of like history and sociological mystery...awe yeeeaaaahh, you know how to kick it M to the L!  i am in awe...forever.  but the best part is with the ninjas, like when they show up, its like what?  huh?  what?  huh?  i think the spanish language provides the film with a subtle classiness not seens since armed and dangerous with john candy and eugene levy.  fo'reals yo.  peace! "}{"Title":"Hilariously funny, but meant for the younger crowd","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is definitely one of the top comedies of the year, but I don't expect people older than 35 (unless you understand modern culture very well) to get half the jokes. Martin Lawrence states as a joke, Dang, whose backin' you up, P. Diddy?. I found that line hilarious, but if you didn't know who P. Diddy is, you wouldn't get the joke. I mean, if you were in your 70's and watching that movie, you might think he said a different name, like Pin yitti or Pee Ditsy. So I thought the movie was great, and I would recommend it to all of those people who know who P. Diddy is. If you don't, go see a different movie. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is and enjoy it","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have never seen a Martin Lawrence movie before, and having watch maybe two episodes from the first season of his TV show way back in the early 1990s, I figured he was not for me. Yet somehow I ended up watching this movie on cable today, and here's what the deal is.It's funny. It's not a serious period piece; it's a Martin Lawrence vehicle. Enough said. From the opening scene, you're getting Martin Lawrence. If you like him, you'll like this movie. If you don't like him, you may still like this movie. Sure, it is full of clichés and hammed-up moments, but if you accept that truth going into the movie, you'll like it.Lawrence is funny, the supporting cast does just that (they support the star), and the plot, while goofy, fits the whole tone and mood of the film. This isn't going to make me a Martin Lawrence fan, nor am I going to run out and watch his other movies, but this was funny. Nothing else to report. "},{"Title":"It was good but not great.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think movie is funny. I had some laughs here and there but nothing special. The movie's about an amusement park employee Jamal Walker(Martin Lawrence) who goes back in tome when he falls in to creek. He pretends to be a messenger from Normandie and they accept him into the Midieval times. I give this  movie an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Lighten Up Folks","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Good grief. I can't believe so much negativity about a movie that not only is funny, but compared to the rest of the so-called comedies this year, it's also relatively wholesome and clean with an okay plot.  Comedy is probably one of the most subjective genres, and it's not really helpful to say something like I've never liked Martin Lawrence and he's never been funny. Why go see him then!?  No one's saying Martin is some kind of Richard Pryor or even Eddie Murphy, but then again he doesn't resort to the language they did either.  Go see the movie for some light-hearted good laughs.  You'll get more from this one than most.  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I decided to comment on this movie because I was appalled by the negative reviews that it got. Rating it 0 out 10? C'mon! What are you expecting, Casablanca? It is a light-hearted comedy and should be judged as one. If you don't understand comedy, and particularly dislike Martin Lawrence why comment on it all. I thought it was great movie. One of Martin Lawrence's best. Calling it a waste of money is only  a bad reflection upon the reviewer who was dumb enough to go into a movie with the lead role played by an actor who he genuinely disliked. Black Knight is a great comedy and will be treat for Martin Lawrence fans and a refreshing comedy for everyone else (who is a bit more open-minded than most of the critics here).  9/10  "},{"Title":"Great Light-Hearted Entertainment","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I downloaded this movie & watched it, then came on IMDB to read the user comments.  Because I found the movie very funny, I was SHOCKED to see that so many people wanted to rate it 0 & less!  Next week is finals week & I wanted a light-hearted study break & this movie was just that.  Of course it wasn't the deepest movie in the world, but it had its great parts.  I enjoyed the dance Martin led, his incidents with the king's daughter and all of the other parts that viewers were supposed to enjoy.  I remain thoroughly confused as to how people did not like this movie... unless they just didn't get it.Though I was/am not a big fan of 'Martin' the tv show, I enjoy all of Martin's movies.  Blue Streak, What's the Worst that Could Happen, Bad Boys, I forgot what else, and now Black Knight are all great if you want to laugh. "},{"Title":"Good (K)night","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I see a lot of '1''s on the list.. well.. what can I say.. I had a good laugh.. so it wasn't spectacular or something like that.. but that night when I went to the movies.. it was good to be out.. And for all the people who voted '1'.. don't go see a movie you don't like.. I mean come on.. no movie deserves a '1' unless you see you don't wanna see. "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence's best film (but that's not saying much)","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Martin Lawrence has been an annoying presence on the tube and the big screen for the last ten years now, with his screeching raspy talking and unpleasant facial contortions that are supposed to be funny but aren't.  So I never thought I would ever be writing the following sentence  Black Knight, the new Martin Lawrence film, doesn't suck.In this film Lawrence plays his usual role of a lazy, shiftless ne'er-do-well with just enough charm to get away with it.  He has a low-paying job at a medieval theme park, but is thinking of leaving for a bigger one.  Then he falls into the moat and is transported back to the middle ages.  From then on, it's the typical tale of a fish out of water who learns a few moral lessons while he's lost.The plot is unimportant.  What struck me is for the first time ever, I found myself laughing at Lawrence's antics.  Particularly funny are one scene where he is tweezing his nose-hairs (something every male over the age of twenty-five can sympathize with), and another where he is given a horse that will not be ridden.At about the time of a lame disco musical number, however, Lawrence's humor wears thin.  Fortunately, very little time goes by after this before Tom Wilkinson--who was exceptional in The Full Monty and Shakespeare in Love--enters the picture as an alcoholic knight who is trying to mend his reputation.  Wilkinson's acting chops are what elevates this film beyond mediocre into the realm of just OK.Perhaps one day, Martin Lawrence will win an Oscar, but I doubt it.  He's still mostly annoying, but with Black Knight he proves that with the right supporting cast, he can be at least palatable.  7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Funnier Than I Thought It Would Be","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The best of comedy involves a fish out of water. This movie qualifies with a bumbling black guy from a ghetto of LA time-warped into lily white 14th century England. 14th Century England seems to be popular this year as with the jousting `Knight's Tale' seen in May.Surprisingly, the gags were not overly repetitive and gross. I absolutely detested Martin Lawrence as `Big Mama.' Einstein's theory of relativity comes into play here, since I didn't find `Black Knight' anywhere near as crude. There is a lot of old time physical comedy and this helps span generations without a lot of bathroom humor.As with `For the Birds,' the short before `Monsters, Inc.,' the opening scene of Martin Lawrence taking care of his morning toiletry is worth watching alone &#133; and funny without being too gross. It reminded me of something Stan Laurel might do. It also helps that Lawrence has a plastic face like Jim Carrey.I was surprised to find myself laughing a lot and felt the film is better than I thought it would be. But be for warned, some thought this was the worst movie they have ever seen. I just may have been in the mood for a pick-me-up.  "},{"Title":"Alrighty","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want to see a movie that really touches you...then don't see this movie.  But if you want to laugh and aren't above silly humor then see this movie.  It is really funny.  Of course it's not a 'wonderful' movie, but it isn't supposed to be. It is fun!  A very funny movie, Martin is a funny man and made this movie what it is.  Chris Tucker certainly could not have pulled this one off.  It was funny.  Go see it. "}{"Title":"I have very good opinions that people should listen to.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an awesome hilarious movie.  A must see for anyone WITH a sense of humor.  Some people said it was terrible well they're very wrong this is a funny movie a definite must see.  It is chucked full of wild humor and many enjoyable things. "},{"Title":"GREAT fun!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't usually write reviews, but when I saw this page on Black Knight I could'nt resist. This movie is probably one of the most underrated I have witnessed on IMDB. I admit when I looked at the cover and picked it up from the video rental shelves I did not have great expectations for the movie, but when I watched it it was a blast! I recommend this movie. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"What a Crazy Knight!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Black Knight is a version of the classic A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court, with a new twist.  Martin Lawrence plays Jamal, a medieval-themed amusement park employee who finds himself sent back in time to England in the real Middle Ages.  Martin's frenetic performance may be over the top, but it's worthy of laughter.  The art direction was quite well done, capturing the look of medieval England.  The story may leave a bit to be desired, though.  But some moments were written adequately, such as the Queen's lackluster speech.  Martin Lawrence may have done better movies, as he's done worse ones.  So Black Knight is a trip through time worth taking. "},{"Title":"Most underrated movie I've ever seen","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be the most underrated movie I've ever seen.  I thought Dr. Doolittle was underrated, I've never seen the ratings for this.  This is outrageous.  The movie is funny and the acting is very good.  The plot isn't that creative and somewhat unimaginative but that doesn't really matter to the point.  The ending leaves a sequel possibly open and I hope they make it.Overall the movie is way too underrated and 3.6 is definitely what it shouldn't be rated.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"sit down and have fun!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie which has been highly underrated. I don't think it is worth a ten but- At least 6/10 Points. It's really funny and better then most teen movies around today. If you like a good laugh and if you don't take this movie to serious then watch it! "},{"Title":"Once more for  A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthurs Court","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" MARTIN LAWRENCE is delightfully silly & yet funny in another take off of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthurs Court.Normally I am not a fan of this type of comedy, BUT this time I actually laughed out loud at the crazy antics.Mr.Lawrence is very frenetic as usual BUT happily not foul mouthed as he is on his HBO specials. The entire cast does quite well, with a script that borrows many lines & stunts from other films & TV shows. To me it worked. For 90 minutes of enjoyment & a howl of an ending, see this. BTW the 1954 Bing Crosby version was bad in comparison, I probably gave that a 2 1/2 star rating.rating *** 84 points IMDb 7 "},{"Title":"Weak plot but full of laughs, all a comedy needs.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the plot may seem shaky at times Black Knight is sure too get you laughing. I am a firm believer in the fact that a comedy does not neccessarily need a good plot so long as it can make you laugh it has done its job. Black Knight does just that. Martin Lawrence doesnt fail his fans and fills his role perfectly. "},{"Title":"WTF !!! this movie rox","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Whats up with you people ffs !!, damn this movie was funny I cant belive everyone is marking this so low, damn and a crap movie like Zoolander gets such a high mark. Whats the matter not enough special effects ?? the STARS not the usual bunch of over payed Overrated sealife ?? damn you all I laughed enough watching this and thats what I expect from a comedy. Whoever is voting on this one must be 90 year old partially sighted ducks !! man im still shocked at the poor votes this has got !! enough is enough go back to Zoolander . ( "},{"Title":"way under rated...this movie is FUNNY!!!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't understand why so many people are SO critical of all Martin Lawrence's movies!  He is one of the funniest moviestars out there and he was absolutely PERFECT for this movie!  This movie is definitely under rated on this site... I laughed through the whole film and I do plan to buy it. "},{"Title":"Not that bad...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this movie tonight - and I didn't think it was too bad, but also not the best I've seen. It shure was funny at times - not only to me, but also to the rest of the audience - since everyone was laughing their heads of.... What I don't get is, why does it score so bad - because it isn't! The plot was quite original, but predictable - but still worth a couple of laughs - go see for yourself...  "}{"Title":"Alot of people saids this movie is awful, but I completely disagree, its not great, but its not that bad either, its a funny movie, if you are into comedy.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Alot of people saids this movie is awful, but I completely disagree, its not great, but its not that bad either, its a funny movie, if you are into comedy.I my self are into comedy, and I didn't hate the movie, and I didn't love it, its quite tasteless some places, but still a good movie.If you got a day off, or some spare time, you should go see it. "},{"Title":"Martin is the man","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can see that the people who has woted on this movie i general thought that it blew. Thats surprises me, because if you dont like Martin Lawrence movies, why do you watch them. If you liked movies like Big momas house, Nothing to loose and Blue Streak you will surly enjoy this movie too. Lawrence is as usual very funny, so I recommend the movie.  "},{"Title":"not too shabby, not too shabby at all","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a very good movie, if you look at it in the way that Martin Lawrence makes em. He has a unique kind of funny to him, that can only be truly appreciated by a handful of people. As for the film, I thought it was well done. Although not completely original, I still found it a good buy. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably silly fun","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsJamal Walker (Martin Lawrence) is a fast talking,slightly stereotypical black employee from the ghetto at a run down amusement park with a medieval theme.One day,he inexplicably finds himself transported back in time to the real medieval England,which is under rule from the wretched King Leo (Kevin Conway) and his right hand man Percival (Vincent Regan),who have overthrown the honorable Queen Victoria (Helen Carey) and enslaved the people.However,unwittingly as he does it,Jamal equips the Medieval people with his knowledge of 21st century life to overthrow the wrongdoers and restore peace and order to the good people.From the offset,this is a silly film.An immature man's fantasy,if it were.None of the humor is particularly subtle and in turn it unsurprisingly did little to improve most critics opinions of Lawrence as a performing physical comedian.A great deal of it is pretty explicit and sexually orientated too.Having just checked on the IMDB webpage,I noticed that the film received a PG certificate in the UK (with cuts).The film censorship board's choppers didn't do too good a job then,as some of the jokes,in my opinion,were still pretty risque and not suitable for any audience member to see.All this aside however,a lot of them,if taken in the right mood,are pretty hilarious,side splitting even.The films faults crop up towards the end,when it veers away from it's comedy roots and strays into serious action drama land a little (although one scene where Lawrence is obviously parodying his 'Wesley Snipes-Passenger 57' line from Bad Boys does raise quite a titter) and the ending is kind of formulaic and predictable.Still,it can't disappoint too much if you just take it for what it is,and there's also an appearance from Tom 'what the hell am 'I' doing in this' Wilkinson,as an unrightfully fallen knight who befriends Jamal and assists in guiding their troops to victory,perfect for when the film starts employing it's drama element too heavily.***  "}]